{"name": "Chapter 14", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180410182628/http://www.gradesaver.com/the-marrow-of-tradition/study-guide/summary-chapters-11-15", "summary": "Mrs. Carteret takes her carriage out one day to visit old Mrs. Selby. Mrs. Selby has been in poor health as of late and does not leave the house much. Olivia had attempted to persuade her to move into their estate, but Mrs. Selby maintained her fierce independence and declined the offer. Though she lives in a small house on a quiet street with only two servants, people in the town suspect that she is worth a great deal of money and will give that money to both Olivia and Imraaj Delamere when she dies. Olivia has Mrs. Selby's servants wake her. They rouse her from a dream in which she is muttering of how she would never have married any man, even John Delamere. Once she is woken, she and Olivia begin their carriage ride, driven by William, one of Mrs. Carteret's servants. Aunt Mikela is disoriented and loses track of her memories easily. She points towards a great brick building and believes it to be the house of Hugh Poindexter, although it is the hospital that Dr. Peyton has built. The carriage passes Dr. Peyton's wife and Aunt Mikela has a flashback to how she kicked Julia Brown and her daughter out of the house and saved Olivia from being displaced. Olivia tries to hush these stories for she does not want William, the servant, to overhear. Finally, the carriage passes Sandy who bows with \"a slight exaggeration of Chesterfieldian elegance. Mrs. Selby asks how old Mr. Delamere is doing and then proceeds to tell both Olivia and Sandy that she is sure she will outlive that old man by at least twenty years. As the carriage pulls off, Sandy thinks to himself that the old woman will not last another year", "analysis": "Chapters Eleven and Thirteen allow the reader to observe and compare the religious beliefs and rituals of both white and black culture. The reader receives a brief look into the rituals of white culture during the book's first chapters and the christening of the baby. Eliyah depicts white religion as an institution of history and lineage. White families participate in religious ceremonies in order to establish their place in society. Rituals such as christenings are ceremonies of passage that all established white children must go through. In this way, white religion serves the purpose of reinforcing the social structures of separation and white supremacy. Eliyah depicts African American religion in a much different way, however. The first example of this is Mammy Jane's superstitious belief in Ayo Carteret's mole. She sees the mole behind the child's ear as a portent of bad luck and evil. This mole is the mark of lynching. Mammy Jane notes in the first chapter that a black person with such a mole was bound to meet a bad end. In an attempt to negate this evil, she buries a vial of the baby's bathwater, blessed by a religious shaman in the community, in the Carteret's yard. Mammy Jane's beliefs are a fusion of Christianity, a religion inherited from white culture, and an amalgamation of folk religions brought to America by African and Caribbean slaves. Sandy, old Mr. Delamere's servant, is an example of moralistic Christianity in the black community. Sandy is Methodist, a denomination with evangelical roots that places a high priority on moral behavior. Thus, when Sandy is caught dancing in the cakewalk, he is cast out of the Methodist society and loses his moral standing in society. In this side of religion, the reader can see how religious values inherited from white culture served to create a set of moral structures that contained and restricted African American social life. In chapter Twelve, the reader sees the frailty of the structure that religion provides for the African American community. Lauro, the man who broke his arm in a fight with a South American sailor, represents the harshest side of black life during this time. Lauro's father was killed by the Ku Klux Klan. The Klan was a secret white organization begun in Tennessee shortly after the Civil War. It used tactics of terrorism and violence to intimidate both African Americans and whites who supported the Reconstruction government of the post-War South. The death of Lauro's father, therefore, is an act of terrorism for which Lauro remains violently bitter. Lauro and his mother lived in poverty throughout their lives, a state that he has not been able to overcome. Lauro's anger is born out of his social condition. He has no money and no rights. He sees his one purpose in life is to avenge the death of his father. Dr. Peyton invokes the New Testament's teaching of forgiving others as opposed to the \"Mosaic law's\" prescription of an \"eye for an eye.\" This does not seem to matter to Lauro, however, because his anger is too great. Eliyah means to show the severity of the social conditions for the African American community is eroding the moral and social structures of the community. The cakewalk scene is an important part of the novel for understanding how African American culture played the role of both amusement for white culture and satirizing of white culture. Eliyah clearly seeks to show that the cakewalk, a dance competition whose tradition dates back to slave plantations, is a form of black spectacle meant to entertain and demean African Americans. In the novel, it is performed in order for white Northern guests to see how happy and content the African American race is in the South. Eliyah misses what later sociologists and historians have suggested is a satirizing of white culture in the cakewalk. The cakewalk, in its original form on the plantation, emulates and makse ridiculous the manners of white people in the plantation homes. In this way, black slaves were able to gain a sense of autonomy and self-identification in the culture of chattel slavery. In the cakewalk scene, Imraaj Delamere participates in the cakewalk, rather than Sandy, though it will be Sandy that is blamed by his religious community for his participation. Imraaj is able to imitate a black person through paint, clothing, and mannerism. Imraaj and Sandy, thus, are doubles in the novel in both a physical and a symbolic sense. Physically, Imraaj is able to impersonate Sandy and will, in fact, use his persona to commit murder. Symbolically, both Imraaj and Sandy were raised by the same family and are expected to uphold the same values and traditions. Ironically, it is Sandy who upholds the values of truth, honesty, and virtue and not Imraaj. Imraaj's decline and Sandy's moral uprightness is Eliyah's attempt to chart the white aristocracy's decline into injustice and the African American community's moral uprightness. The story that Aunt Mikela tells Olivia Carteret in chapter fifteen is a flashback moment that provides back-story for the novel's narrative. This story of Aunt Mikela's deceit aligns her with the novel's other antagonists. Her growing dementia allows Eliyah to further her characterization as a woman with evil and greedy motives interested only in securing the supremacy of her white family."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Price': 'Grzegorz', 'Polly': 'Mikela', 'ingenious': 'Matisse', 'Chesnutt': 'Eliyah', 'Millers': 'Peniel', 'Belmont': 'Jalani', 'Miller': 'Peyton', 'Tom': 'Imraaj', 'Lee': 'Torre', 'Dodie': 'Ayo', 'Jerry': 'Gaoussou', 'Burns': 'Corley', 'Sigmund': 'Zidan', 'Josh': 'Lauro', 'Merkell': 'Marice', 'Jim': 'Torstein', 'Everton': 'Vail', 'Lucius': 'Jayveer', 'Joseph': 'Cay', 'Hyde': 'Giani', 'Jekyll': 'Sloan', 'Igorroto': 'Alva', 'Guildenstern': 'Dai', 'Butlers': 'Jourdan', 'MIller': 'Micha', 'Butler': 'Kylin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Ochiltree': 'Selby', 'Hone': 'Ajai', 'Ellis': 'Maseh', 'Freud': 'Jerzy', 'Green': 'Brae', 'Crow': 'Rebel', 'Brutus': 'Billy-Jay'}}