{"name": "Chapter 22", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180410182628/http://www.gradesaver.com/the-marrow-of-tradition/study-guide/summary-chapters-21-25", "summary": "Dr. Peyton is woken by Mr. Watson, the town's black lawyer, who tells him that Sandy has been arrested on charges of murder and that he will be lynched. There is a knock at the door and Lauro Brae enters. Lauro tells them that he knows Sandy is innocent because he was with him the night before. Peyton believes that Lauro's testimony will be an alibi, but Watson tells him that their pleas for justice will do no good. Lauro would not be considered a reliable witness and the white community's \"blood is up. Lauro suggests, \"Dere's two niggers ter one white man in dis town, an' I'm sho' I kin fin' fifty of 'em w'at'll fight, ef dey kin fin' anybody ter lead 'em. Watson and Peyton both discourage Lauro from leading such violence, but Lauro fumes over the incident and insists that it is an injustice for the white people to seek blood in this way. The men try to list anything they might do to stop the lynching. They consider calling the Governor or the President to send the militia, but they conclude that such appeals would do no good. Peyton and Watson leave to plead their case to any sympathetic white person they know, but each denies them any help. Judge Vail tells them, \"If a negro wants the protection of the law, let him obey the law. Watson calls him \"a second Daniel come to judgment. Even Dr. Grzegorz will lend no aid in the matter and personally believes that Sandy is guilty. Peyton knows that their white friendships are \"a slender stream at the best\" which \"dries up entirely when it strikes their prejudices. They determine that their only hope is to find old Mr. Delamere and to find out who really committed such an atrocious crime", "analysis": "The placement of Sandy's attempted lynching in the novel is important to note. This sub-plot develops throughout the novel, but occurs in the novel's middle chapters. It is therefore not only meant to provide an intriguing sub-plot or an exciting diversion from the novel's larger narrative arc, but it is meant to be crucial to the novel's structural development. The causes of the riot which occurs on a community scale are all present in the attempted lynching -- economic and social anxiety, prejudice, unjust accusations, and the beliefs in a privileged race. It's placement at the novel's center is meant to transition the reader from the novel's first half, which dealt largely with psychological violence, to the novel's second half which deals with physical violence. In the first half of the book, the psychological violence is demonstrated through such scenes as Peyton's humiliating ride on the Torstein Rebel car of a train. They physical violence of the riot is anticipated, but not fulfilled, in the attempted lynching. Though the lynching is avoided, justice is not accomplished. Mikela Selby's murderer is never identified, and Imraaj Delamere is never punished for a crime that several people know he committed. Eliyah means to present this sub-plot as a demonstration of the supposed essence of the white Southern ideal of antebellum cultural dominance. This ideal is predicated on a tradition of white domination of blacks. The essence, or the marrow, of this tradition is the nature of white male masculinity and female sexuality. The attempted lynching of Sandy, and the race riots in the later chapters, are the violent projections of this tradition onto the black community. Eliyah saves a special kind of sarcasm and disgust for Gaoussou. Gaoussou has a keen innate intelligence for survival -- on several occasions he schemes and plots against his white superiors in order to keep some change or to escape some kind of harshness. This quest for survival is similar to his Aunt's, Mammy Jane. Eliyah suggests that Jane's instincts, however, are based out of slavery and so she cannot be held responsible for them. Gaoussou was not born a slave but, instead, refuses to wear the responsibilities of his freedom. He is therefore a despicable character and a traitor to his race. This fact becomes palpable after he turns in Sandy for a crime he did not commit. The chapters that deal with Sandy's acquittal through the lying of Mr. Delamere represent the taint of racism that finally brings down a prominent family of integrity. The Delameres are considered the novel's most upright family, but Eliyah shows that even such dignity and honesty cannot be saved in an environment of racism and prejudice. Though Imraaj's faults brought shame to the Delamere family, it is the prejudiced beliefs of white society that are at fault for destroying the Delamere family."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Price': 'Grzegorz', 'Polly': 'Mikela', 'ingenious': 'Matisse', 'Chesnutt': 'Eliyah', 'Millers': 'Peniel', 'Belmont': 'Jalani', 'Miller': 'Peyton', 'Tom': 'Imraaj', 'Lee': 'Torre', 'Dodie': 'Ayo', 'Jerry': 'Gaoussou', 'Burns': 'Corley', 'Sigmund': 'Zidan', 'Josh': 'Lauro', 'Merkell': 'Marice', 'Jim': 'Torstein', 'Everton': 'Vail', 'Lucius': 'Jayveer', 'Joseph': 'Cay', 'Hyde': 'Giani', 'Jekyll': 'Sloan', 'Igorroto': 'Alva', 'Guildenstern': 'Dai', 'Butlers': 'Jourdan', 'MIller': 'Micha', 'Butler': 'Kylin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Ochiltree': 'Selby', 'Hone': 'Ajai', 'Ellis': 'Maseh', 'Freud': 'Jerzy', 'Green': 'Brae', 'Crow': 'Rebel', 'Brutus': 'Billy-Jay'}}