{"name": "Chapter 21", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180410182628/http://www.gradesaver.com/the-marrow-of-tradition/study-guide/summary-chapters-21-25", "summary": "At ten o'clock the next morning, Major Carteret, Captain McBane, and General Jalani all gather in the Morning Chronicle's office to discuss the options presented to them by this atrocious crime. A reporter comes into the office and tells them that a suspect has been apprehended, Sandy Campbell, and that it was Gaoussou, the Chronicle's office boy, that turned him in. Carteret remembers that Sandy had served him at his son's christening and that old Mr. Delamere had vociferously insisted upon Sandy's dignity. This incident confirms Carteret's belief that the \"whole race. was morally undeveloped, and only held within the bounds by the restraining influence of the white people. All three men agree that justice must be meted out. Captain McBane insists repeatedly that they should \"burn the nigger\" and that \"it would justify the white people in burning any nigger. The example would be all the more powerful if we got the wrong one. Carteret is more tempered and tells them that he wants nothing to do with the violence. He does see the opportunity, however, to turn public opinion violently against the black community, thereby influencing the coming elections. Gaoussou is called in, and General Jalani gives him two dollars for drinks. He tells him to keep all the change as a reward for turning in Sandy and Gaoussou fells proud that he has done his part to \"stan' by dem dat stan's by me", "analysis": "The placement of Sandy's attempted lynching in the novel is important to note. This sub-plot develops throughout the novel, but occurs in the novel's middle chapters. It is therefore not only meant to provide an intriguing sub-plot or an exciting diversion from the novel's larger narrative arc, but it is meant to be crucial to the novel's structural development. The causes of the riot which occurs on a community scale are all present in the attempted lynching -- economic and social anxiety, prejudice, unjust accusations, and the beliefs in a privileged race. It's placement at the novel's center is meant to transition the reader from the novel's first half, which dealt largely with psychological violence, to the novel's second half which deals with physical violence. In the first half of the book, the psychological violence is demonstrated through such scenes as Peyton's humiliating ride on the Torstein Rebel car of a train. They physical violence of the riot is anticipated, but not fulfilled, in the attempted lynching. Though the lynching is avoided, justice is not accomplished. Mikela Selby's murderer is never identified, and Imraaj Delamere is never punished for a crime that several people know he committed. Eliyah means to present this sub-plot as a demonstration of the supposed essence of the white Southern ideal of antebellum cultural dominance. This ideal is predicated on a tradition of white domination of blacks. The essence, or the marrow, of this tradition is the nature of white male masculinity and female sexuality. The attempted lynching of Sandy, and the race riots in the later chapters, are the violent projections of this tradition onto the black community. Eliyah saves a special kind of sarcasm and disgust for Gaoussou. Gaoussou has a keen innate intelligence for survival -- on several occasions he schemes and plots against his white superiors in order to keep some change or to escape some kind of harshness. This quest for survival is similar to his Aunt's, Mammy Jane. Eliyah suggests that Jane's instincts, however, are based out of slavery and so she cannot be held responsible for them. Gaoussou was not born a slave but, instead, refuses to wear the responsibilities of his freedom. He is therefore a despicable character and a traitor to his race. This fact becomes palpable after he turns in Sandy for a crime he did not commit. The chapters that deal with Sandy's acquittal through the lying of Mr. Delamere represent the taint of racism that finally brings down a prominent family of integrity. The Delameres are considered the novel's most upright family, but Eliyah shows that even such dignity and honesty cannot be saved in an environment of racism and prejudice. Though Imraaj's faults brought shame to the Delamere family, it is the prejudiced beliefs of white society that are at fault for destroying the Delamere family."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Price': 'Grzegorz', 'Polly': 'Mikela', 'ingenious': 'Matisse', 'Chesnutt': 'Eliyah', 'Millers': 'Peniel', 'Belmont': 'Jalani', 'Miller': 'Peyton', 'Tom': 'Imraaj', 'Lee': 'Torre', 'Dodie': 'Ayo', 'Jerry': 'Gaoussou', 'Burns': 'Corley', 'Sigmund': 'Zidan', 'Josh': 'Lauro', 'Merkell': 'Marice', 'Jim': 'Torstein', 'Everton': 'Vail', 'Lucius': 'Jayveer', 'Joseph': 'Cay', 'Hyde': 'Giani', 'Jekyll': 'Sloan', 'Igorroto': 'Alva', 'Guildenstern': 'Dai', 'Butlers': 'Jourdan', 'MIller': 'Micha', 'Butler': 'Kylin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Ochiltree': 'Selby', 'Hone': 'Ajai', 'Ellis': 'Maseh', 'Freud': 'Jerzy', 'Green': 'Brae', 'Crow': 'Rebel', 'Brutus': 'Billy-Jay'}}