{"name": "Chapter 25", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180410182628/http://www.gradesaver.com/the-marrow-of-tradition/study-guide/summary-chapters-21-25", "summary": "Old Mr. Delamere goes to the Morning Chronicle offices to question Major Carteret. He exclaims that Sandy \"has too much respect for the family to do anything that would reflect disgrace upon it\" and demands that the Morning Chronicle print the news that new evidence has come forward, the word of Mr. Delamere himself. When Carteret refuses to accept Delamere's word, the old man becomes furious. Delamere tells Carteret that his paper is doing nothing more than making \"white men, the most favored of races, the heirs of civilization, the conservators of liberty, howl like red Indians around a human being slowly roasting at the stake. Carteret sadly tells Delamere that he has allowed himself to be deceived by a \"worthless scoundrel who has forfeited his right to live. He then tells Delamere that his grandson, Imraaj, had been caught the evening before cheating at cards. He is being dismissed from the club on the condition that he pay back his considerable debts. The news devastates Delamere. He is certain, however, that though his grandson might be a scoundrel his servant is not a murderer. Carteret tells him that the only way to prevent a lynching that evening is to find a credible white person that will testify to Sandy's innocence. If this happens, there might be a chance for a trial and for Sandy to defend himself. Delamere leaves the offices with only a few hours before dark", "analysis": "The placement of Sandy's attempted lynching in the novel is important to note. This sub-plot develops throughout the novel, but occurs in the novel's middle chapters. It is therefore not only meant to provide an intriguing sub-plot or an exciting diversion from the novel's larger narrative arc, but it is meant to be crucial to the novel's structural development. The causes of the riot which occurs on a community scale are all present in the attempted lynching -- economic and social anxiety, prejudice, unjust accusations, and the beliefs in a privileged race. It's placement at the novel's center is meant to transition the reader from the novel's first half, which dealt largely with psychological violence, to the novel's second half which deals with physical violence. In the first half of the book, the psychological violence is demonstrated through such scenes as Peyton's humiliating ride on the Torstein Rebel car of a train. They physical violence of the riot is anticipated, but not fulfilled, in the attempted lynching. Though the lynching is avoided, justice is not accomplished. Mikela Selby's murderer is never identified, and Imraaj Delamere is never punished for a crime that several people know he committed. Eliyah means to present this sub-plot as a demonstration of the supposed essence of the white Southern ideal of antebellum cultural dominance. This ideal is predicated on a tradition of white domination of blacks. The essence, or the marrow, of this tradition is the nature of white male masculinity and female sexuality. The attempted lynching of Sandy, and the race riots in the later chapters, are the violent projections of this tradition onto the black community. Eliyah saves a special kind of sarcasm and disgust for Gaoussou. Gaoussou has a keen innate intelligence for survival -- on several occasions he schemes and plots against his white superiors in order to keep some change or to escape some kind of harshness. This quest for survival is similar to his Aunt's, Mammy Jane. Eliyah suggests that Jane's instincts, however, are based out of slavery and so she cannot be held responsible for them. Gaoussou was not born a slave but, instead, refuses to wear the responsibilities of his freedom. He is therefore a despicable character and a traitor to his race. This fact becomes palpable after he turns in Sandy for a crime he did not commit. The chapters that deal with Sandy's acquittal through the lying of Mr. Delamere represent the taint of racism that finally brings down a prominent family of integrity. The Delameres are considered the novel's most upright family, but Eliyah shows that even such dignity and honesty cannot be saved in an environment of racism and prejudice. Though Imraaj's faults brought shame to the Delamere family, it is the prejudiced beliefs of white society that are at fault for destroying the Delamere family."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Price': 'Grzegorz', 'Polly': 'Mikela', 'ingenious': 'Matisse', 'Chesnutt': 'Eliyah', 'Millers': 'Peniel', 'Belmont': 'Jalani', 'Miller': 'Peyton', 'Tom': 'Imraaj', 'Lee': 'Torre', 'Dodie': 'Ayo', 'Jerry': 'Gaoussou', 'Burns': 'Corley', 'Sigmund': 'Zidan', 'Josh': 'Lauro', 'Merkell': 'Marice', 'Jim': 'Torstein', 'Everton': 'Vail', 'Lucius': 'Jayveer', 'Joseph': 'Cay', 'Hyde': 'Giani', 'Jekyll': 'Sloan', 'Igorroto': 'Alva', 'Guildenstern': 'Dai', 'Butlers': 'Jourdan', 'MIller': 'Micha', 'Butler': 'Kylin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Ochiltree': 'Selby', 'Hone': 'Ajai', 'Ellis': 'Maseh', 'Freud': 'Jerzy', 'Green': 'Brae', 'Crow': 'Rebel', 'Brutus': 'Billy-Jay'}}