{"name": "Chapter 35", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180410182628/http://www.gradesaver.com/the-marrow-of-tradition/study-guide/summary-chapters-31-37", "summary": "The riot is deemed a \"revolution\" by the white people, but by seven o'clock it had become a murderous riot. Lauro and his group of men make their way to Dr. Peyton's hospital with the idea of protecting every important negro institution that they could. The white mobs hear that there is a band of black men preparing to attack and so Lauro's group makes their way into the hospital to seek safety. As they make their way towards the building, Lauro's group meets Gaoussou who is very much afraid. Lauro grabs Gaoussou, though he protests, and drags him with them. They enter the hospital and barricade themselves in. The mob reaches the hospital and Lauro eyes Captain McBane, the man who had killed his father. McBane threatens them all that they will be shot if they continue to resist. Suddenly, a gunshot rings out and the black men in the hospital returns fire. A white man is killed, another is injured, and the mob's fury rises. Outside of the mob, Major Carteret and Mr. Maseh watch the proceedings. Carteret tells Maseh that this must be stopped since women and children were now being killed. Maseh tells him that the mob is now in the fever stage and that it \"must burn itself out. Carteret insists that he did not mean for this to happen. He elbows his way through the crowd and makes his way to the front. He tries to make a speech and to tell them all that their actions are a disgrace, but they do not hear him and believe that he is talking about the black men. The mob surges and sets the building on fire. Inside, Lauro Brae knows that the time has come to fight and die. The door of the hospital is thrown open and the black fighters rush out. Many are shot are killed but Lauro Brae takes out a huge bowie knife and runs straight for Captain McBane. Lauro is shot just as he reaches McBane and plunges his knife into him. Both are dead. One of the two died as the fool dieth. Which was it, or was it both. Shortly, the mob disperses and the hospital burns down", "analysis": "The title of Chapter 31 is \"The Shadow of a Dream.\" This title is a reference to Shakespeare's Hamlet in which Dai says, \"Which dreams, indeed, are ambition, for the very substance of the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.\" Olivia's dream, Ayo as a \"fairy prince,\" is meant to represent the anxiety of the white ruling class over the future of their race. This anxiety is through Ayo's character. The Carteret's ambitions for their child are representative of the larger ambitions that white Southern culture has for its future. These ambitions, like Hamlet's own, are but \"the shadow of a dream,\" as the novel will show in the final chapters. The placement of Chapter 31 is important to note. Olivia's concern over her child's future and her concern over her sister's property rights come just before the outbreak of the Wellington riot. By placing this particular plot point at this juncture of the story, Eliyah is suggesting that property rights and questions of inheritance are pivotal to the issues of racial identity and compassion. Olivia's denial of her sister's identity and inheritance is representative of the larger cultural problem of racial disinheritance. Thus, in the next chapter, the violence begins. In the chapters depicting the riots, Eliyah is careful to demonstrate that the order perceived by the white ruling class  is a false perception. In fact, the white community dominates the black community. This is readily apparent in the ease with which the white mob participants are able to overtake, bully, and kill any black person that stands in their way. Eliyah uses several juxtapositions of belief, especially religious belief, to demonstrate the insanity and false underpinnings of white aggression. He sarcastically notes that it would be impossible for anyone not of Southern heritage to believe that the \"good Christian people, who thronged the churches on Sunday, and wept over the sufferings of the lowly Nazarene...could be thirsting for the blood of their fellow men.\" Eliyah's theological point is that one cannot serve the \"lowly Nazarene,\" Jesus, who submitted his own life to death for the salvation of others, while also propagating messages of hate and prejudice. These belief systems are incompatible. Chapters 33 and 34 are also named after concepts from the Bible. \"Into the Lion's Jaws\" is a play on the phrase \"into the lion's den.\" This phrase is taken from the book of Daniel from the Hebrew Bible. In this story, Daniel is sent by King Nebakanezer into a lion's den to be executed. God closes the jaws of the lions, however, and Daniel is saved. The title of this chapter is meant to suggest that God is not willing, or able, to save the black community on the day of the riot and sends them not just into the lion's den but into their open jaws. This idea is alluded to by Lauro in Chapter 32 when he tells Dr. Peyton that God \"mus' be 'sleep, er busy somewhar e'se ter-day.\" The title of Chapter 34, \"The Valley of the Shadow,\" is an allusion to Pslam 23 from the Hebrew Bible, \"Yeah, htough I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil; for thou art with me; thy rod and they staff they comfort me.\" This title expresses the situation that Dr. Peyton is walking into, finding his child dead upon the streets of Wellington. The title does not allude to God's comfort, however. The novel's climax is actually a reflection on justice and compassion. These are two traits that are interposed with each other through the actions of the Carteret and Peyton families and the situations that they find themselves in. The title of Chapter 36 is \"Fiat Justitia,\" latin for \"Let justice be done.\" This phrase would have been written in parliamentary law on a bill brought before parliament to correct an error in law. For Peyton, his refusal to treat Ayo Carteret is his fiat justitia; his attempt to correct the injustice done to both him and his family through the riots. Carteret has a brief moment of clarity as he sees that this act of justice is warranted and fair, regardless of race. Compassion, however, wins the day in the novel's closing pages. Compassion does not mean a lack of anger or bitterness. Janet Peyton remains extremely bitter for the wrong that is done to her by her sister. Eliyah suggests, though, that this bitterness can be overcome with the hope of reconciliation between the races. Eliyah proposes that Janet's acceptance into and inheritance from the Carteret family is the basis for moving forward. Eliyah's message of acceptance is directed towards his white audience; his message of compassion is directed towards his black audience. The novel does not end with a denouement. The narrative ends before the reader learns if Ayo Carteret survives. This is meant to leave a question in the reader's mind -- will the legacy of lynching, violence, and prejudice survive, or will it be changed in a fundamental way?"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Price': 'Grzegorz', 'Polly': 'Mikela', 'ingenious': 'Matisse', 'Chesnutt': 'Eliyah', 'Millers': 'Peniel', 'Belmont': 'Jalani', 'Miller': 'Peyton', 'Tom': 'Imraaj', 'Lee': 'Torre', 'Dodie': 'Ayo', 'Jerry': 'Gaoussou', 'Burns': 'Corley', 'Sigmund': 'Zidan', 'Josh': 'Lauro', 'Merkell': 'Marice', 'Jim': 'Torstein', 'Everton': 'Vail', 'Lucius': 'Jayveer', 'Joseph': 'Cay', 'Hyde': 'Giani', 'Jekyll': 'Sloan', 'Igorroto': 'Alva', 'Guildenstern': 'Dai', 'Butlers': 'Jourdan', 'MIller': 'Micha', 'Butler': 'Kylin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Ochiltree': 'Selby', 'Hone': 'Ajai', 'Ellis': 'Maseh', 'Freud': 'Jerzy', 'Green': 'Brae', 'Crow': 'Rebel', 'Brutus': 'Billy-Jay'}}