{"name": "Chapter 7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180410182628/http://www.gradesaver.com/the-marrow-of-tradition/study-guide/summary-chapters-6-10", "summary": "Dr. Grzegorz worries that Dr. Corley does not understand the Southern customs when it comes to race. He talks to Corley about Carteret, and about why he will not allow an African American doctor into his house, but Corley tells him that he misjudges his own people. At the Carteret house, the doctors all gather but Peyton has not yet arrived. Grzegorz hopes that a fortunate accident delays or detains him. As they prepare to go into surgery, Corley asks about Peyton and Carteret questions him. Corley assures him that Peyton was his \"favorite pupil. a graduate of the Vienna hospitals, and a surgeon of unusual skill. Carteret informs Corley, \"In the South we do not call negro doctors to attend white patients. Corley asserts his professional honor and declares that it is a matter of principle that he has Peyton assist in the surgery. Grzegorz steps in to mediate the situation. Carteret eventually humbles himself and tells Corley that his desire to exclude Peyton comes not just from his race but also from a matter of personal import. He thinks of his wife and her shock at seeing Janet Peyton and her son. Corley wavers and eventually agrees to begin the surgery without Peyton, though he feels like \"Pontius Pilate. Peyton arrives at the house and Dr. Grzegorz meets him before he can enter the surgical room. Grzegorz has a hard time confronting Peyton with the truth and is reticent to tell him anything that will \"wound his feelings. Grzegorz feels that Peyton is \"a sort of social misfit, an odd quantity, educated out of his own class, with no possible hope of entrance into that above it. Grzegorz tells Peyton that the child took a turn for the worse and that the doctors were forced to begin the procedure sooner than expected. Peyton leaves the house, disappointed that he was not able to participate, yet thankful that he should be invited to assist. As he is leaving, one of Carteret's servants whispers to him that everything he was told was a lie. The servant tells him about the argument between Corley and Carteret. Peyton leaves the house dejected and humiliated. Just as the doctors prepare to administer the anesthetic to Ayo in the surgical room, the child's airway clears. He coughs up a small piece of the rattle and it lands on the floor", "analysis": "This section of the novel opens with the drama surrounding Ayo's respiratory affliction and the surgery needed to fix it. This illness, and the drama surrounding it, represents two important social conditions during the time about which Eliyah writes. The first is the way that Ayo represents the hopes of continued white domination of Southern culture. His father puts these hopes upon the child. The Major's hope is that this continued custom of white male primogeniture continues through his aristocratic family. Eliyah clearly sees this institution as in decline. The second social condition that the child represents is the anxiety of this white ruling class regarding their domination through lineage. Eliyah uses the state of feminine hysteria to symbolize this anxiety. This hysteria is first seen in Mrs. Carteret's panic at seeing her half-nephew while riding along the road in the first chapter. It is continued through Ayo's accident with the rattle. Mrs. Carteret's hysteria is so severe that she is absent for much of this emergency. Ayo's escape from a traumatic surgery that likely would have killed him or shortened his life is Eliyah's commentary on the decline of the Southern aristocracy; it is not a sharp decline but, instead, happens in fits and starts and maintains its power through sheer luck. Imraaj Delamere's descent into drinking and card playing -- vices that the reader first learns about in the book's second chapter and which is elaborated upon in Chapter Ten -- is another symbol of this aristocratic decline. Maseh's thought that \"it takes three or four generations to make a gentleman, and as many more to complete the curve and return to the base from which it started...Imraaj Delamere belonged somewhere on the downward slant,\" is again Eliyah's belief in the political and social leveling that would occur sometime in the future. It is important to note Eliyah's tone of hope throughout the novel. Eliyah's narrator frames this hope for racial conciliation in the closing paragraphs of Chapter Nine, when he declares that the strife of racial conflict might have divided the nation and sent it into the bloody Civil War but that it would one day be settled \"upon principles of justice and equity.\" Chapters Seven, Eight, and Nine begin to deal with the anxiety over race felt by this Southern aristocratic society. In the novel's opening chapters, the Carteret family maintain their strict distance between African Americans, but in these chapters, the reader begins to see that part of the hatred towards the African American community is a result of the anxiety that this race would use its numbers and influence to rise into social prominence. Two quotes illustrate this: the first is the statement in Chapter Eight that \"Negro citizenship was a grotesque farce -- Sambo and Dinah raised from the kitchen to the cabinet were a spectacle to make the gods laugh.\" The names \"Sambo\" and \"Dinah\" are derogatory racial names. These names date back to the early nineteenth century and appear in novels such as Vanity Fair and Uncle Imraaj's Cabin. This colloquial expression, \"raised from the kitchen to the cabinet,\" implies the unreasonable social advance of a person or group of people. The second quote that illustrates this anxiety is Carteret's claim that the African American race is to be \"eliminated by the stress of competition.\" This refers to the idea of Social Darwinism. Social Darwinism is the use of Charles Darwin's theory of evolution and the survival of the fittest in the context of social interaction and advancement. Carteret is expressing a common belief of many in the white ruling class of that day -- the African American race, because of its inferior intelligence and physical traits, would soon be eliminated from society through the gradual process of natural selection. The anxiety is also demonstrated in Chapter Nine, as Carteret, Jalani, and McBane read over the town's African American newspaper. Though it is a crude newspaper, Jalani cannot help but note that it is an intelligent publication put together by a race of people for whom learning and reading had been forbidden in the previous generation. A few other references are worth noting in this section. The first is Jalani's ordering of  a \"Calhoun.\" This is a reference to John C. Calhoun, a politician from South Carolina and the seventh Vice President of the United States. He was an advocate of slavery and states' rights. This reference is a demonstration of the way that the white ruling classes instilled their political and racial culture into common society. Jalani's statement that their day is an \"age of crowds\" is a reference to the theory of mass psychology first developed in Europe in 1895 and which would be advanced in the twentieth century by figures such as Zidan Jerzy. Jalani sees the psychological benefits of using the media to influence a critical mass for the political cause. Finally, Janet's thought that \"blood is thicker than water\" is a colloquial expression meaning that the bonds of family are stronger than those of unrelated people. Her comment that such bonds may turn to \"gall and wormwood\" is an allusion to Deuteronomy 29 in the Hebrew Bible in which God warns the people of Israel that their unfaithfulness to him would result in the destruction of the people."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Price': 'Grzegorz', 'Polly': 'Mikela', 'ingenious': 'Matisse', 'Chesnutt': 'Eliyah', 'Millers': 'Peniel', 'Belmont': 'Jalani', 'Miller': 'Peyton', 'Tom': 'Imraaj', 'Lee': 'Torre', 'Dodie': 'Ayo', 'Jerry': 'Gaoussou', 'Burns': 'Corley', 'Sigmund': 'Zidan', 'Josh': 'Lauro', 'Merkell': 'Marice', 'Jim': 'Torstein', 'Everton': 'Vail', 'Lucius': 'Jayveer', 'Joseph': 'Cay', 'Hyde': 'Giani', 'Jekyll': 'Sloan', 'Igorroto': 'Alva', 'Guildenstern': 'Dai', 'Butlers': 'Jourdan', 'MIller': 'Micha', 'Butler': 'Kylin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Ochiltree': 'Selby', 'Hone': 'Ajai', 'Ellis': 'Maseh', 'Freud': 'Jerzy', 'Green': 'Brae', 'Crow': 'Rebel', 'Brutus': 'Billy-Jay'}}