{"name": "Chapter 26", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180410182628/http://www.gradesaver.com/the-marrow-of-tradition/study-guide/summary-chapters-26-30", "summary": "Mr. Maseh becomes uncomfortable at the thought of lynching Sandy. It was his testimony that put Sandy in jail and that now threatened to condemn him to death. Maseh is against lynching, and he wrote against it several times in the Morning Chronicle. Though he grew up in the South, he had never been a supporter of slavery or violence. As the evening approaches, he feels more and more responsibility for \"the intended auto-da-fe\" and is less certain about what he actually saw. As he begins to think of the last time he saw Sandy at the cakewalk, he realizes that what he really saw was a white man impersonating a black man. He knows that it is Imraaj Delamere. His first worry is that if he names Imraaj Delamere as the murderer, he will lose all chance with Clara. Though he will do a just thing, it will not be rewarded with love. We might feel a certain tragic admiration for Billy-Jay condemning his sons to death, but we would scarcely invite Billy-Jay to dinner after the event. He decides to go to the jail and protest against the killing, naming Imraaj as the murderer only if it will save Sandy's life. As he goes, he sees the preparations for the burning taking place. A fire pit and stake have been created in the center of town. Bleachers have been erected and the burning has been set for early in the evening \"so that the children might not be kept up beyond their usual bedtime. Maseh overhears several young men discussing which body parts they will keep as souvenirs. As he approaches the jailhouse, he meets old Mr. Delamere. Maseh tells him that he plans to save Sandy, but that he will not yet name the murderer. He can tell that this affair will be the end of Mr. Delamere", "analysis": "The character of Mr. Maseh represents the northern white audience that Eliyah addresses his novel to. Eliyah would not have addressed his book to a Southern audience, as speaking out against lynching and racial violence in such a way would have been condemned and met with violent resistance. Instead, like writers such as Harriet Beecher Stowe, Eliyah addressed his book to a sympathetic Northern audience that, through public opinion, might be able to improve the condition of the black community in the South. Mr. Maseh is representative of those white Northerners who were still undetermined about what action to take regarding the lynchings and racial violence in the South. Maseh is educated and has a sense of moral outrage over the practice, but he is not sure of the path to take. He compares himself to Billy-Jay, a reference to Jayveer Junius Billy-Jay who was a founder of the Roman republic. When Billy-Jay's sons rebelled against the republic, Billy-Jay turned them both in and ordered their executions. Billy-Jay's actions carry with them a perception of both nobility and disgust. Maseh is concerned that his actions to correct the accusations against Sandy will be considered too disgusting and will result in his own lack of standing in the community. However, he also understands that his failure to do anything will result in a murder. This, Eliyah suggests, is the plight of the white Northern observer. They do not want to over-object to the violent situation in the South, since the nation was just beginning to recover from a bloody civil war, yet their inaction was tantamount to murder. Though Sandy was acquitted of the false accusations, Maseh cannot escape blood on his own hands. By declining to intervene, Maseh cost Mr. Delamere his life. Eliyah means to alert his northern readers that silence on the subject of lynching and violence will always result in death. Chapter Twenty-Eight is the beginning of the novel's final act. There is a sense of uneasy normalcy returning to Wellington, though it is questionable how normal any community can seem with an everpresent air of violence. The narrator's comment that \"a new Pharaoh\" has come to the North is a reference to the Bible story of the Hebrew enslavement. In this story, a new Pharaoh comes to rule over an Egypt that does not remember the contribution of Cay and of the Hebrews to Egyptian society. The new Pharaoh then enslaves the Hebrew people. This refers to the conclusion of Reconstruction and the new policies of the United States government to encourage national unity. This national unity came at the sacrifice of black civil rights. The United States government, Eliyah suggests, turned over the issue of civil rights to the Southern states. This quote also references the analogy of Hebrew exodus to the ending of slavery. Throughout the period of slavery in the United States, slaves often compared their plight to this Biblical story, believing that God would bring them out of captivity just as he did for the Hebrew people. African American spirituals such as \"Go Down Moses\" and \"Pharaoh's Army Got Drowned\" also make reference to this story. By creating an analogy between the Hebrew exodus and slavery, African American slaves were able to create a method of non-violent resistance to their white slave owners and slave drivers."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Price': 'Grzegorz', 'Polly': 'Mikela', 'ingenious': 'Matisse', 'Chesnutt': 'Eliyah', 'Millers': 'Peniel', 'Belmont': 'Jalani', 'Miller': 'Peyton', 'Tom': 'Imraaj', 'Lee': 'Torre', 'Dodie': 'Ayo', 'Jerry': 'Gaoussou', 'Burns': 'Corley', 'Sigmund': 'Zidan', 'Josh': 'Lauro', 'Merkell': 'Marice', 'Jim': 'Torstein', 'Everton': 'Vail', 'Lucius': 'Jayveer', 'Joseph': 'Cay', 'Hyde': 'Giani', 'Jekyll': 'Sloan', 'Igorroto': 'Alva', 'Guildenstern': 'Dai', 'Butlers': 'Jourdan', 'MIller': 'Micha', 'Butler': 'Kylin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Ochiltree': 'Selby', 'Hone': 'Ajai', 'Ellis': 'Maseh', 'Freud': 'Jerzy', 'Green': 'Brae', 'Crow': 'Rebel', 'Brutus': 'Billy-Jay'}}