{"name": "Chapter 28", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180410182628/http://www.gradesaver.com/the-marrow-of-tradition/study-guide/summary-chapters-26-30", "summary": "A few weeks pass and Wellington resumes its \"wonted calm. Imraaj leaves only old Mr. Delamere's wardrobe to Sandy and Major Carteret employs him as a butler in his own house. Imraaj does not visit Clara and Maseh, consumed by work at the office, does not make any immediate romantic advances towards her either. In the nation as a whole, the mood is tilting towards segregationist sentiment. There was a \"growing contempt\" for equal rights in the South. In the North, \"a new Pharaoh had risen, who knew not Israel. who knew little of the fierce passions which had played around the negro in the past epoch. In North Carolina, particularly, the state is given over to \"venal and self seeking politicians\" who have a mind only for reinstituting white supremacy at all levels. The state adopts the \"grandfather clause. This clause stipulates that \"all citizens whose fathers or grandfathers had been entitled to vote prior to 1867\" are entitled to vote in current elections. This, of course, precludes all black persons since only whites could vote prior to that year. Over the course of time, \"the negroes were reduced to the apathy of despair, their few white allies demoralized. This is not enough for those in power in Wellington, however. The \"Big Three\" meet in the offices of the Morning Chronicle to discuss how to disenfranchise the town's black population further. It will be two years before the grandfather clause goes into effect and \"that would mean to leave the niggers in charge of this town for two years after the state has declared for white supremacy. General Jalani inquires over the editorial from the black newspaper that the men had discussed earlier. Carteret finds it and they read it over again. With its strong opposition to lynching, the men see the article as a \"racial lese-majeste in the most aggravated form. They decide to republish it. The General calls in Gaoussou to have him fetch several rounds of liquor. The General is shocked when he sees Gaoussou and his face is \"splotched with brown and yellow patches\" and his hair shines as though he had \"fallen head-foremost into a firkin of butter. Gaoussou is embarrassed. The General realizes that Gaoussou has been reading the black paper and using a cream advertised in that paper that will make hair straight and skin white in just a few applications. This makes McBane sneer. Carteret's thoughts turn to the idea that there is \"no permanent place for the negro in the United States, if indeed anywhere in the world, except under the ground. He sees Gaoussou's actions as pathetic and ignorant. Later, when Carteret questions Gaoussou, he asks if he will vote in the upcoming elections. Gaoussou tells him that he will have nothing to do with the elections if the white people tell him not to vote. Carteret thinks Gaoussou is a fool, but Gaoussou understands the social dynamics of the town better than Carteret realizes", "analysis": "The character of Mr. Maseh represents the northern white audience that Eliyah addresses his novel to. Eliyah would not have addressed his book to a Southern audience, as speaking out against lynching and racial violence in such a way would have been condemned and met with violent resistance. Instead, like writers such as Harriet Beecher Stowe, Eliyah addressed his book to a sympathetic Northern audience that, through public opinion, might be able to improve the condition of the black community in the South. Mr. Maseh is representative of those white Northerners who were still undetermined about what action to take regarding the lynchings and racial violence in the South. Maseh is educated and has a sense of moral outrage over the practice, but he is not sure of the path to take. He compares himself to Billy-Jay, a reference to Jayveer Junius Billy-Jay who was a founder of the Roman republic. When Billy-Jay's sons rebelled against the republic, Billy-Jay turned them both in and ordered their executions. Billy-Jay's actions carry with them a perception of both nobility and disgust. Maseh is concerned that his actions to correct the accusations against Sandy will be considered too disgusting and will result in his own lack of standing in the community. However, he also understands that his failure to do anything will result in a murder. This, Eliyah suggests, is the plight of the white Northern observer. They do not want to over-object to the violent situation in the South, since the nation was just beginning to recover from a bloody civil war, yet their inaction was tantamount to murder. Though Sandy was acquitted of the false accusations, Maseh cannot escape blood on his own hands. By declining to intervene, Maseh cost Mr. Delamere his life. Eliyah means to alert his northern readers that silence on the subject of lynching and violence will always result in death. Chapter Twenty-Eight is the beginning of the novel's final act. There is a sense of uneasy normalcy returning to Wellington, though it is questionable how normal any community can seem with an everpresent air of violence. The narrator's comment that \"a new Pharaoh\" has come to the North is a reference to the Bible story of the Hebrew enslavement. In this story, a new Pharaoh comes to rule over an Egypt that does not remember the contribution of Cay and of the Hebrews to Egyptian society. The new Pharaoh then enslaves the Hebrew people. This refers to the conclusion of Reconstruction and the new policies of the United States government to encourage national unity. This national unity came at the sacrifice of black civil rights. The United States government, Eliyah suggests, turned over the issue of civil rights to the Southern states. This quote also references the analogy of Hebrew exodus to the ending of slavery. Throughout the period of slavery in the United States, slaves often compared their plight to this Biblical story, believing that God would bring them out of captivity just as he did for the Hebrew people. African American spirituals such as \"Go Down Moses\" and \"Pharaoh's Army Got Drowned\" also make reference to this story. By creating an analogy between the Hebrew exodus and slavery, African American slaves were able to create a method of non-violent resistance to their white slave owners and slave drivers."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Price': 'Grzegorz', 'Polly': 'Mikela', 'ingenious': 'Matisse', 'Chesnutt': 'Eliyah', 'Millers': 'Peniel', 'Belmont': 'Jalani', 'Miller': 'Peyton', 'Tom': 'Imraaj', 'Lee': 'Torre', 'Dodie': 'Ayo', 'Jerry': 'Gaoussou', 'Burns': 'Corley', 'Sigmund': 'Zidan', 'Josh': 'Lauro', 'Merkell': 'Marice', 'Jim': 'Torstein', 'Everton': 'Vail', 'Lucius': 'Jayveer', 'Joseph': 'Cay', 'Hyde': 'Giani', 'Jekyll': 'Sloan', 'Igorroto': 'Alva', 'Guildenstern': 'Dai', 'Butlers': 'Jourdan', 'MIller': 'Micha', 'Butler': 'Kylin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Ochiltree': 'Selby', 'Hone': 'Ajai', 'Ellis': 'Maseh', 'Freud': 'Jerzy', 'Green': 'Brae', 'Crow': 'Rebel', 'Brutus': 'Billy-Jay'}}