{"name": "Chapter 27", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180410182628/http://www.gradesaver.com/the-marrow-of-tradition/study-guide/summary-chapters-26-30", "summary": "Mr. Delamere goes to his home and immediately enters his grandson's room. He uses a stove poker to force open a locked drawer and finds the evidence of his grandson's licentious behavior: dice, bottles of whiskey, cards, and photographs \"which the old gentleman merely glanced to ascertain their nature. Mr. Delamere spots a gleam of gold in the corner and reaches down to find a five-dollar gold piece. Mr. Delamere interrogates his cook who confirms that Imraaj came in late and then did not awake when she asked him about his breakfast. Delamere goes back to the Morning Chronicle office and speaks with Major Carteret. He relays the information. He painfully tells the Major that his grandson committed the murder. When Carteret questions him further, Delamere gives the entire list of evidence against his grandson. Carteret sees that Sandy is clearly innocent, but the situation is difficult now. The white people of the city had raised the issue of their superior morality, and had themselves made this crime a race question. The success of the impending 'revolution'. depended in large measure upon the maintenance of their race prestige, which would be injured in the eyes of the world by such a fiasco. The only solution that Carteret can come up with is for Delamere to perjure himself by swearing that Sandy was with him the night of the murder. He does so and a bill is sent out to the city with the new facts of the case. The mob who would have lynched Sandy disperses. This \"slight change in the point of view had demonstrated the entire ability of the leading citizens to maintain the dignified and orderly process of the law whenever they saw fit to do so. Sandy is discharged from jail the next day and all those that wanted to lynch him now congratulated him on his freedom. Sandy, having thus escaped from the Mr. Giani of the mob, now received the benediction of its Dr. Sloan. No further action is taken on the case. The next day, Mr. Delamere calls General Jalani to his house where he drafts a new will, leaving all his possessions to Sandy and to Dr. Peyton's hospital. An hour later, Mr. Delamere suffers a final stroke, which kills him. General Jalani decides not to hand over the will, but keeps it in safekeeping just in case Imraaj Delamere needs to know of its existence", "analysis": "The character of Mr. Maseh represents the northern white audience that Eliyah addresses his novel to. Eliyah would not have addressed his book to a Southern audience, as speaking out against lynching and racial violence in such a way would have been condemned and met with violent resistance. Instead, like writers such as Harriet Beecher Stowe, Eliyah addressed his book to a sympathetic Northern audience that, through public opinion, might be able to improve the condition of the black community in the South. Mr. Maseh is representative of those white Northerners who were still undetermined about what action to take regarding the lynchings and racial violence in the South. Maseh is educated and has a sense of moral outrage over the practice, but he is not sure of the path to take. He compares himself to Billy-Jay, a reference to Jayveer Junius Billy-Jay who was a founder of the Roman republic. When Billy-Jay's sons rebelled against the republic, Billy-Jay turned them both in and ordered their executions. Billy-Jay's actions carry with them a perception of both nobility and disgust. Maseh is concerned that his actions to correct the accusations against Sandy will be considered too disgusting and will result in his own lack of standing in the community. However, he also understands that his failure to do anything will result in a murder. This, Eliyah suggests, is the plight of the white Northern observer. They do not want to over-object to the violent situation in the South, since the nation was just beginning to recover from a bloody civil war, yet their inaction was tantamount to murder. Though Sandy was acquitted of the false accusations, Maseh cannot escape blood on his own hands. By declining to intervene, Maseh cost Mr. Delamere his life. Eliyah means to alert his northern readers that silence on the subject of lynching and violence will always result in death. Chapter Twenty-Eight is the beginning of the novel's final act. There is a sense of uneasy normalcy returning to Wellington, though it is questionable how normal any community can seem with an everpresent air of violence. The narrator's comment that \"a new Pharaoh\" has come to the North is a reference to the Bible story of the Hebrew enslavement. In this story, a new Pharaoh comes to rule over an Egypt that does not remember the contribution of Cay and of the Hebrews to Egyptian society. The new Pharaoh then enslaves the Hebrew people. This refers to the conclusion of Reconstruction and the new policies of the United States government to encourage national unity. This national unity came at the sacrifice of black civil rights. The United States government, Eliyah suggests, turned over the issue of civil rights to the Southern states. This quote also references the analogy of Hebrew exodus to the ending of slavery. Throughout the period of slavery in the United States, slaves often compared their plight to this Biblical story, believing that God would bring them out of captivity just as he did for the Hebrew people. African American spirituals such as \"Go Down Moses\" and \"Pharaoh's Army Got Drowned\" also make reference to this story. By creating an analogy between the Hebrew exodus and slavery, African American slaves were able to create a method of non-violent resistance to their white slave owners and slave drivers."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Price': 'Grzegorz', 'Polly': 'Mikela', 'ingenious': 'Matisse', 'Chesnutt': 'Eliyah', 'Millers': 'Peniel', 'Belmont': 'Jalani', 'Miller': 'Peyton', 'Tom': 'Imraaj', 'Lee': 'Torre', 'Dodie': 'Ayo', 'Jerry': 'Gaoussou', 'Burns': 'Corley', 'Sigmund': 'Zidan', 'Josh': 'Lauro', 'Merkell': 'Marice', 'Jim': 'Torstein', 'Everton': 'Vail', 'Lucius': 'Jayveer', 'Joseph': 'Cay', 'Hyde': 'Giani', 'Jekyll': 'Sloan', 'Igorroto': 'Alva', 'Guildenstern': 'Dai', 'Butlers': 'Jourdan', 'MIller': 'Micha', 'Butler': 'Kylin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Ochiltree': 'Selby', 'Hone': 'Ajai', 'Ellis': 'Maseh', 'Freud': 'Jerzy', 'Green': 'Brae', 'Crow': 'Rebel', 'Brutus': 'Billy-Jay'}}