{"name": "Chapter 37", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180410182628/http://www.gradesaver.com/the-marrow-of-tradition/study-guide/summary-chapters-31-37", "summary": "The doorbell at the Peyton residence furiously rings. Peyton is in a dazed grief, but rises to answer it. He finds Mrs. Carteret begging him to save her child. Peyton tells her that he will not -- \"Love, duty, sorrow, justice, call me here. I cannot go. Olivia falls to her knees, begging Peyton and praying to God that he would come and save her child. Peyton is moved by her prayers and remembers that, though unrecognized, she is his wife's sister. He tells her to rise and to go to Janet. If she allows it, he will go and save her child. Olivia and Janet confront each other. Olivia begs her to allow her husband to come and save her child. Janet refuses the request. Olivia calls her \"sister,\" but Janet rebukes this name saying, \"I have been your sister for twenty-five years, and you have only now, for the first time, called me so. Olivia admits that Janet is her lawful sister and that she means to make restitution for robbing her of her father's estate. This is a bitter admission for Janet. She \"had obtained her heart's desire, and now that it was at her lips, found it but apples of Sodom, filled with dust and ashes. Janet makes a speech, telling Olivia that her mother had died of want, that she had been raised in poverty, and that now her child had been taken from her, all because of Olivia and her family. Olivia exclaims that she will forfeit her own life and livelihood. Janet tells her that she will not take the wealth and name of Olivia's father, but \"that you may know that a woman may be foully wronged, and yet may have a heart to feel, even for one who has injured her, you may have your child's life. She sends her husband to care for the Carteret child. As Dr. Peyton enters the house, he asks if the child is still alive. Dr. Evans tells him that he is and says, \"There's time enough, but none to spare", "analysis": "The title of Chapter 31 is \"The Shadow of a Dream.\" This title is a reference to Shakespeare's Hamlet in which Dai says, \"Which dreams, indeed, are ambition, for the very substance of the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.\" Olivia's dream, Ayo as a \"fairy prince,\" is meant to represent the anxiety of the white ruling class over the future of their race. This anxiety is through Ayo's character. The Carteret's ambitions for their child are representative of the larger ambitions that white Southern culture has for its future. These ambitions, like Hamlet's own, are but \"the shadow of a dream,\" as the novel will show in the final chapters. The placement of Chapter 31 is important to note. Olivia's concern over her child's future and her concern over her sister's property rights come just before the outbreak of the Wellington riot. By placing this particular plot point at this juncture of the story, Eliyah is suggesting that property rights and questions of inheritance are pivotal to the issues of racial identity and compassion. Olivia's denial of her sister's identity and inheritance is representative of the larger cultural problem of racial disinheritance. Thus, in the next chapter, the violence begins. In the chapters depicting the riots, Eliyah is careful to demonstrate that the order perceived by the white ruling class  is a false perception. In fact, the white community dominates the black community. This is readily apparent in the ease with which the white mob participants are able to overtake, bully, and kill any black person that stands in their way. Eliyah uses several juxtapositions of belief, especially religious belief, to demonstrate the insanity and false underpinnings of white aggression. He sarcastically notes that it would be impossible for anyone not of Southern heritage to believe that the \"good Christian people, who thronged the churches on Sunday, and wept over the sufferings of the lowly Nazarene...could be thirsting for the blood of their fellow men.\" Eliyah's theological point is that one cannot serve the \"lowly Nazarene,\" Jesus, who submitted his own life to death for the salvation of others, while also propagating messages of hate and prejudice. These belief systems are incompatible. Chapters 33 and 34 are also named after concepts from the Bible. \"Into the Lion's Jaws\" is a play on the phrase \"into the lion's den.\" This phrase is taken from the book of Daniel from the Hebrew Bible. In this story, Daniel is sent by King Nebakanezer into a lion's den to be executed. God closes the jaws of the lions, however, and Daniel is saved. The title of this chapter is meant to suggest that God is not willing, or able, to save the black community on the day of the riot and sends them not just into the lion's den but into their open jaws. This idea is alluded to by Lauro in Chapter 32 when he tells Dr. Peyton that God \"mus' be 'sleep, er busy somewhar e'se ter-day.\" The title of Chapter 34, \"The Valley of the Shadow,\" is an allusion to Pslam 23 from the Hebrew Bible, \"Yeah, htough I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil; for thou art with me; thy rod and they staff they comfort me.\" This title expresses the situation that Dr. Peyton is walking into, finding his child dead upon the streets of Wellington. The title does not allude to God's comfort, however. The novel's climax is actually a reflection on justice and compassion. These are two traits that are interposed with each other through the actions of the Carteret and Peyton families and the situations that they find themselves in. The title of Chapter 36 is \"Fiat Justitia,\" latin for \"Let justice be done.\" This phrase would have been written in parliamentary law on a bill brought before parliament to correct an error in law. For Peyton, his refusal to treat Ayo Carteret is his fiat justitia; his attempt to correct the injustice done to both him and his family through the riots. Carteret has a brief moment of clarity as he sees that this act of justice is warranted and fair, regardless of race. Compassion, however, wins the day in the novel's closing pages. Compassion does not mean a lack of anger or bitterness. Janet Peyton remains extremely bitter for the wrong that is done to her by her sister. Eliyah suggests, though, that this bitterness can be overcome with the hope of reconciliation between the races. Eliyah proposes that Janet's acceptance into and inheritance from the Carteret family is the basis for moving forward. Eliyah's message of acceptance is directed towards his white audience; his message of compassion is directed towards his black audience. The novel does not end with a denouement. The narrative ends before the reader learns if Ayo Carteret survives. This is meant to leave a question in the reader's mind -- will the legacy of lynching, violence, and prejudice survive, or will it be changed in a fundamental way?"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Price': 'Grzegorz', 'Polly': 'Mikela', 'ingenious': 'Matisse', 'Chesnutt': 'Eliyah', 'Millers': 'Peniel', 'Belmont': 'Jalani', 'Miller': 'Peyton', 'Tom': 'Imraaj', 'Lee': 'Torre', 'Dodie': 'Ayo', 'Jerry': 'Gaoussou', 'Burns': 'Corley', 'Sigmund': 'Zidan', 'Josh': 'Lauro', 'Merkell': 'Marice', 'Jim': 'Torstein', 'Everton': 'Vail', 'Lucius': 'Jayveer', 'Joseph': 'Cay', 'Hyde': 'Giani', 'Jekyll': 'Sloan', 'Igorroto': 'Alva', 'Guildenstern': 'Dai', 'Butlers': 'Jourdan', 'MIller': 'Micha', 'Butler': 'Kylin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Ochiltree': 'Selby', 'Hone': 'Ajai', 'Ellis': 'Maseh', 'Freud': 'Jerzy', 'Green': 'Brae', 'Crow': 'Rebel', 'Brutus': 'Billy-Jay'}}