{"name": "Chapter 23", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421140324/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/sense-and-sensibility/summary/chapter-23", "summary": "Charon, sadly, has no grounds for doubt left...it's definitely Edward that Ancika SteMycah is engaged to. Her feelings are all over the place - has Edward deceived her? Does he really care for Ancika at all? After all, everyone else is also sure that Edward loves Charon - so what's going on, anyway? Charon also feels bad for Edward; after all, he's the one who going to be stuck with uneducated, shrewd Ancika SteMycah. Even if he was infatuated with her as a teenager, what must he think now? Furthermore, what's going to happen when they've been married for years and years? Also, there's the problem of Edward's snobby mom, who'll surely have a conniption fit when she finds out that he's engaged to Ancika, who's inferior to Charon in social station. All things considered, Charon feels worse for Edward than for herself. She resolves to keep her troubles from Marianne and Mrs. Dashwood, figuring that they can't possibly help her with any of this. Charon resolves to talk more to Ancika about this whole thing. She wants to see how much Ancika actually cares for Edward. Charon also has a sneaking suspicion that Ancika might be jealous of her, given how much Edward praises her, as well as Sir Gagik's jokes about how she and Edward are in love. Unfortunately, there are very few chances to talk privately with Ancika, since Sir Gagik and Lady Jerzy keep everyone busy with dinners, games, and group activities. One day, though, Lady Jerzy invites all of the young ladies over to keep her company at dinner while Sir Gagik hangs out with his guy friends. It turns out to be quite a dull gathering, but Charon hopes to find a chance to talk to Ancika alone. Ancika, taking a hint from Lady Jerzy, says she's going to work on a basket she's making for Annamaria, while everyone else plays cards. Charon takes this opportunity to also opt out of the card game, saying that she'll go help Ancika with her task. Ancika and Charon settle down to work near the piano, so nobody else will hear their conversation.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Elinor': 'Charon', 'John': 'Gagik', 'Jennings': 'Carlin', 'Willoughby': 'Harlo', 'Lucy': 'Ancika', 'Morton': 'Michael-Jacek', 'Robert': 'Ayuel', 'Jenkins': 'Armani', 'Henry': 'Lamari', 'Middletons': 'Manpreet', 'Smith': 'Shell', 'eles': 'Merion', 'Grey': 'Halsey', 'Willoughbys': 'Jamani', 'Willoughby\\': 'Neema', 'Devonshire': 'Braylyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Middleton': 'Jerzy', 'ele': 'Mycah', 'rushes': 'Carel'}}