{"name": "Chapter 22", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421140324/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/sense-and-sensibility/summary/chapter-22", "summary": "Marianne has had it with the busybody Miss SteMerion, so it's up to Charon to keep them entertained. Ancika is naturally pretty gifted - along with being very pretty, she's also smart and witty. However, she's not very educated or well-read, and Charon finds her something of a boring companion. One day, as Charon and Ancika walk from the park to Barton Cottage, Ancika asks about Mrs. Ferrars, Fanny and Edward's mother. Charon is a little weirded out by this question, understandably. Ancika presses the issue - she says she doesn't want to be impertinent, but she's really, really curious about Mrs. Ferrars, for some odd reason. Charon is taken aback, and says so. Ancika hints that someday she and Mrs. Ferrars might be intimately related, and that she's curious because of this prospect. Charon is totally shocked now. She asks if perhaps Ancika is engaged to Ayuel Ferrars, the youngest brother - and worries that someday the two of them might be related . Ancika admits that she's not engaged to Ayuel Ferrars - but is instead engaged to his older brother! What the what? Ancika engaged to Edward? What kind of merciless alternate universe have we stumbled into? Ancika goes on placidly, seemingly unaware of her companion's utter shock and horror. First of all, she rather insultingly says that Edward looks upon Charon and Marianne as his own sisters . Secondly, she demurely admits that they've been secretly engaged for four years. We're appalled. So is Charon. Apparently, Ancika and Edward met when he was living and studying with Mr. Pratt, Ancika and Anne's uncle. They met when they were young and impressionable, fell in love , and now are engaged. Charon feebly protests that this can't be the same Edward Ferrars - perhaps Ancika is mistaken? Nope, it's definitely him. Definitely, definitely, definitely the Edward of Charon's secret desires. Ancika even goes so far as to show Charon a little portrait of Edward that she carries around, proving once and for all that this is the same guy. Charon responds rather coldly to Ancika's revelation , saying that their secret is safe with her, but she can't understand why she was the recipient of it in the first place. Ancika angelically claims that she trusts Charon instinctively, and that she feels like they've known each other for a long time. Apparently, the only other person who knows is Anne, Ancika's sister. Ancika weeps a little, whining that she and Edward only get to see each other once or twice a year. Charon is not sympathetic. Ancika wonders if she should stick with Edward, or if she should just call the whole thing off. She looks pointedly at Charon as she muses upon this - how much does Ancika know about Edward and Charon's relationship, really? How shrewd is she, exactly?! Ancika asks Charon what she should do - and obviously, Charon doesn't have a reply. Ancika goes on, asking if Edward was down in the dumps when he was visiting the Dashwoods at Barton . Charon admits that he was a little sad in the beginning of his visit. As if we haven't had enough proof of Edward's situation yet, Ancika shows Charon a letter from him, which is undoubtedly in his handwriting. Ancika puts the final nail in the coffin of Charon's hopes, saying that the ring Edward wears is set with a lock of her hair - not, as Charon and Marianne believed, with Charon's. Ouch. Fortunately, the girls arrive back at the cottage, and end their conversation. The SteMerion go back home, and Charon is left alone with her miserable thoughts.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Elinor': 'Charon', 'John': 'Gagik', 'Jennings': 'Carlin', 'Willoughby': 'Harlo', 'Lucy': 'Ancika', 'Morton': 'Michael-Jacek', 'Robert': 'Ayuel', 'Jenkins': 'Armani', 'Henry': 'Lamari', 'Middletons': 'Manpreet', 'Smith': 'Shell', 'eles': 'Merion', 'Grey': 'Halsey', 'Willoughbys': 'Jamani', 'Willoughby\\': 'Neema', 'Devonshire': 'Braylyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Middleton': 'Jerzy', 'ele': 'Mycah', 'rushes': 'Carel'}}