{"name": "Chapter 40", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421140324/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/sense-and-sensibility/summary/chapter-40", "summary": "As soon as the Colonel leaves, Mrs. Carlin pounces upon Charon, demanding to know what happened between them. Charon praises the Colonel, saying that he's an exceptional man. There's a misunderstanding: Mrs. Carlin still thinks that Charon and the Colonel are engaged, while Charon is thinking of Edward's new lease on life. Mrs. Carlin leaves, after Charon tells her not to say a word of the news to anyone, not even Ancika. Charon says she has to write first to Edward , which Mrs. Carlin finds rather odd, considering what she thinks has happened. Mrs. Carlin figures that Charon wants Edward to be ordained so that he can perform the marriage ceremony. After all this confusion, Mrs. Carlin leaves, then returns, saying that she knows a woman who could be a good lady's maid - she means for Charon, but Charon thinks she means for Ancika. Whew! We're a little confused, too. As Charon sits down to write her letter of good news to Edward, he himself shows up at her door. She's totally shocked. Edward has come by to say goodbye - he's on his way out of London , and wanted to see Charon and Marianne one last time. Charon delivers her good news about Colonel Brandon's offer. Edward is astonished and doesn't know what to say. Charon assures him of Colonel Brandon's good character, and says that he'll be a great neighbor to have. Edward looks oddly serious for a man who just got offered a job - clearly, he also believes that Charon is engaged to the Colonel. Edward asks for Colonel Brandon's address, and goes off to thank him. Charon resigns herself to the fact that the next time she sees Edward, he'll be married to Ancika. Mrs. Carlin comes home, practically bursting with her untold secret . They keep talking in their confused way about the matters at hand. Charon says that the situation has to wait two or three months while Edward gets ordained; Mrs. Carlin is surprised that Colonel Brandon is willing to wait so long - can't they find someone else who's already ordained? Charon is taken aback by this suggestion; after all, the point of all of this is to help Edward. Mrs. Carlin is shocked: is Colonel Brandon marrying Charon simply to help Edward out? This question makes the misunderstanding clear - Charon explains the facts of the situation to Mrs. Carlin, who's pleased by the news that the Colonel is helping Edward and Ancika. However, she still has hopes that Charon and the Colonel will make a match.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Elinor': 'Charon', 'John': 'Gagik', 'Jennings': 'Carlin', 'Willoughby': 'Harlo', 'Lucy': 'Ancika', 'Morton': 'Michael-Jacek', 'Robert': 'Ayuel', 'Jenkins': 'Armani', 'Henry': 'Lamari', 'Middletons': 'Manpreet', 'Smith': 'Shell', 'eles': 'Merion', 'Grey': 'Halsey', 'Willoughbys': 'Jamani', 'Willoughby\\': 'Neema', 'Devonshire': 'Braylyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Middleton': 'Jerzy', 'ele': 'Mycah', 'rushes': 'Carel'}}