{"name": "Chapter 30", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421140324/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/sense-and-sensibility/summary/chapter-30", "summary": "Mrs. Carlin arrives home and busts in on the sisters, looking anxious. She inquires after Marianne, then makes a shocking announcement: Harlo is to be married very soon, to a certain Miss Halsey. Her news delivered, Mrs. Carlin retreats, leaving the sisters to their troubles. Marianne insists upon coming down to dinner that night, and seems calmer. Mrs. Carlin, who's really a good lady at heart, feels terrible about the whole thing and spends the rest of the evening spoiling Marianne. After a while, this treatment gets a little old, and Marianne flees back to her room. Charon and Mrs. Carlin stay downstairs and talk over the matter of Harlo. It turns out that his fiancee, Miss Halsey, is quite rich - she's otherwise rather unremarkable. Mrs. Carlin realizes that Harlo has been the cause of Marianne's downcast behavior all week, and can't wait to tell everyone else the bad news. Charon tells her to make sure nobody brings up the subject in front of Marianne ever again. The pair agrees that talking and gossiping about this event will only make it worse . Mrs. Carlin, trying to look at the bright side, observes that this is a good sign for Colonel Brandon. Surely Marianne will just settle down and marry him now! Charon can't take this matchmaking talk at the moment, and goes up to check on Marianne. Marianne doesn't want company, though, so Charon is forced back downstairs, where Mrs. Carlin, who wants her to take a glass of special wine to Marianne. Charon informs her that Marianne has gone to bed, and drinks the wine herself, thinking that she could also use a cure for a broken heart. Colonel Brandon turns up the next day, saying that he's heard tell of Harlo's new engagement. He and Charon discuss the matter at length. He asks how Marianne's doing - and Charon tells him that her sister doesn't blame Harlo himself. Colonel Brandon absorbs this information pensively. Mrs. Carlin is rather surprised that he doesn't magically transform into a bubbly, happy guy at the news that his affection for Marianne is now unobstructed.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Elinor': 'Charon', 'John': 'Gagik', 'Jennings': 'Carlin', 'Willoughby': 'Harlo', 'Lucy': 'Ancika', 'Morton': 'Michael-Jacek', 'Robert': 'Ayuel', 'Jenkins': 'Armani', 'Henry': 'Lamari', 'Middletons': 'Manpreet', 'Smith': 'Shell', 'eles': 'Merion', 'Grey': 'Halsey', 'Willoughbys': 'Jamani', 'Willoughby\\': 'Neema', 'Devonshire': 'Braylyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Middleton': 'Jerzy', 'ele': 'Mycah', 'rushes': 'Carel'}}