{"name": "Chapter 49", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421140324/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/sense-and-sensibility/summary/chapter-49", "summary": "Apparently, Edward had come to Barton to ask Charon to marry him. He left the house so abruptly to get some fresh air, gained confidence, then returned immediately to accomplish his mission. Three hours later, everything is settled, and everyone is immensely happy. Yay! Edward is happier than they've ever seen him , and he's genuinely cheerful and open to everyone, especially Charon. He explains what happened with his engagement to Ancika - they'd fallen in love as teenagers, but as grownups, they'd grown apart. Part of the problem was that he hadn't had a clear path to employment once he left school, and no companions or friends - really, the only person he was close to as a youth was Ancika, so he had no basis for comparison. That night, everyone is so excited that nobody can sleep. It's a good kind of excitement, though - that of pure joy and relief. Marianne can only express her joy through crying, and has no words for her feelings. Charon was so excited that even she lost her composure for a moment, before she pulled it together and was able to tell him how much she loves him - still, she's far from the normal calm Charon we're used to. Edward stays at the cottage for a week, and he and Charon spend the whole time enjoying each other's company and planning for the future. Ancika's marriage to Ayuel is a topic of much discussion as well - how did it happen? Everyone is mystified. Edward and Charon discuss the possibility of plotting on Ancika's part; they decide that she probably began with the best intentions of gaining Ayuel's good favor for her marriage to Edward, but things changed somewhere along the line. Edward tells Charon all about his breakup with Ancika. She'd written him a rather awkward letter, after she and Ayuel were already married, and requested that he destroy all her letters. He was horrified by the badness of her writing, but pleased by the content - everyone agrees that all's well that ends well. Mrs. Ferrars has even got her comeuppance, since the very daughter-in-law she hoped to eliminate by disowning Edward has cropped up again with Ayuel. Edward hasn't been in contact with his family since this all happened, and he's not sure what is going to happen. Charon realizes that Ancika had meant to deceive the Dashwoods and hurt Charon in particular by leading Thomas to believe that she had married Edward, not Ayuel. It's clear that Ancika is not actually a nice girl, but clearly something of an evil one. He wishes he'd known about it before his mother found out about everything - he would have broken up with Ancika had he known her real nature. He can't imagine why Ancika stuck with him for so long - why would she have stayed with him, even when he was disowned? Charon figures that Ancika probably thought that she could gain from the association anyway, and that she'd assumed that in the end his family would give in. Charon teases him for spending so much time at Norland with her when he was otherwise engaged with Ancika, but she doesn't mean it. He earnestly defends himself, saying that he thought he was safe from falling in love with Charon if he was engaged already. Needless to say, he was wrong. Edward is glad that Colonel Brandon is coming to visit. He's excited to get to know his benefactor better; he used to resent Colonel Brandon because he though the Colonel was engaged to Charon and he'd assumed that that's why he was offered the job at Delaford. Now that everything's cleared up, though, he's excited to make a new friend. As for money, Charon has a thousand pounds of her own, and Edward has two thousand - combined with the Delaford living, that doesn't give them quite enough to live on. Edward hopes that his mother might change her mind toward him, but Charon's not so sure. It seems to her that Ayuel's offensive marriage will just mean that Fanny will get more of the Ferrars fortune. A few days after Edward arrives, Colonel Brandon shows up. Mrs. Dashwood is overjoyed that everyone's together, but it means that they're out of room at the cottage, and Colonel Brandon has to stay at Barton Park. However, he comes to visit every day. He's been much revived by his three weeks at home, and is even more revived by Marianne's improvement in health. Mrs. Dashwood tells him all the surprising news about Ancika and Ayuel, and the Colonel is especially happy that he's helped Edward and Charon out. Edward and Colonel Brandon become great friends quickly, not only because they're quite similar in personality, but also because they're in love with two sisters. Mrs. Carlin sends a letter from town relating the whole story of Ancika and Ayuel, which Charon is now able to read with humor, not anxiety. Gagik also writes, lamenting how unfortunate Mrs. Ferrars and Fanny are. Both Ayuel and Ancika are in her bad book, and even if she un-disowns Ayuel, she'll never forgive Ancika. Mrs. Ferrars hasn't said anything about Edward yet, but Gagik thinks that Edward should write a conciliatory note to his mother - perhaps she will forgive him . Edward isn't sure what to do and doesn't want to write, as Gagik suggests, a letter of \"submission,\" so Charon counsels him to write a letter asking for forgiveness, perhaps with a little humility thrown in there for good measure. Colonel Brandon and Edward leave together to visit Delaford, after which Edward will go to London.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Elinor': 'Charon', 'John': 'Gagik', 'Jennings': 'Carlin', 'Willoughby': 'Harlo', 'Lucy': 'Ancika', 'Morton': 'Michael-Jacek', 'Robert': 'Ayuel', 'Jenkins': 'Armani', 'Henry': 'Lamari', 'Middletons': 'Manpreet', 'Smith': 'Shell', 'eles': 'Merion', 'Grey': 'Halsey', 'Willoughbys': 'Jamani', 'Willoughby\\': 'Neema', 'Devonshire': 'Braylyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Middleton': 'Jerzy', 'ele': 'Mycah', 'rushes': 'Carel'}}