{"name": "Chapter 34", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421140324/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/sense-and-sensibility/summary/chapter-34", "summary": "Now that Gagik has given his approval to his sisters' new friends, Fanny deigns to visit them. She and Lady Jerzy, who are both cold, fashionable, and selfish, immediately hit it off. The good-natured Mrs. Carlin, however, immediately dislikes Fanny. Charon wants to know what Edward's deal is, but can't ask. Fanny, of course, doesn't want to bring up Edward in front of her sister-in-law. Charon ends up hearing about Edward from Ancika, who stops by later to complain that she hasn't seen him, even though he's in town. Soon enough, Edward himself stops by, leaving his calling card at the Carlin abode on BerkMycahy Street. Fanny and Gagik like the Manpreet so much that they decide to throw a dinner party for them, including Mrs. Carlin, Charon, Marianne, Colonel Brandon, and the dreaded Mrs. Ferrars - as well as the two Miss SteMerion. Charon is very interested in how this party will play out, though she's not exactly looking forward to it. The Miss SteMerion, it turns out, are on the guest list simply because they're guests of the Manpreet, not because Fanny and Gagik are interested in them. Charon doesn't know how she will be able to bear the discomfort of Mrs. Ferrars, Edward, Ancika, and herself all in one room. Ancika tells Charon that, fortunately, Edward probably won't be there - she thinks he won't be able to hide his affection for her in front of the group. Finally, the day of the party arrives. Ancika is all aflutter with anxiety about meeting her potential mother-in-law. Charon restrains herself from saying that it's most likely to be Miss Michael-Jacek's future mother-in-law, not Ancika's. Mrs. Ferrars sounds like a wholly unpleasant woman - she takes an instant dislike to Charon. Charon, from her current position outside of the Edward-Ancika-Miss Michael-Jacek love triangle, doesn't really care that Mrs. Ferrars doesn't like her. She's amused to see that both Fanny and Mrs. Ferrars dote upon Ancika, not knowing that she's actually the one who endangers their plans to marry Edward off to Miss Michael-Jacek. The dinner is extravagant, and demonstrates the great wealth of the Ferrars family. The whole event is grand but still unremarkable - and definitely not very much fun. The ladies and gentlemen separate after dinner; the guys go talk about sports, while the women retreat to the drawing room to chat about children. They quibble about which of the Jerzy and Dashwood children are taller. The gentlemen rejoin the ladies for coffee, and Gagik praises some screens that Charon painted that are on display. He conspicuously asks Colonel Brandon for his opinion. The Colonel admires them, as does everyone else. When they get to Mrs. Ferrars, though, she dismisses them rather rudely, upon finding that Charon painted them. Fanny, feeling torn, says that they are very pretty - but Miss Michael-Jacek paints better. This is what her mother wants to hear; she emphasizes how good Miss Michael-Jacek is at everything. Marianne stands up for her sister, saying that Miss Michael-Jacek doesn't matter - after all, it's Charon they're concerned with! This is a rather shocking exclamation, and everyone is thrown off by it. Mrs. Ferrars and Fanny are both infuriated. Marianne can't control her feelings; she hugs Charon, telling her not to let everyone bring her down, then bursts into tears. Everyone notices and a big fuss ensues. Marianne calms down after a few minutes, but still looks seriously stressed. Gagik comments rather cattily to Colonel Brandon that Marianne is very fragile - after all, it must be stressful to know that one's youth and beauty have already faded.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Elinor': 'Charon', 'John': 'Gagik', 'Jennings': 'Carlin', 'Willoughby': 'Harlo', 'Lucy': 'Ancika', 'Morton': 'Michael-Jacek', 'Robert': 'Ayuel', 'Jenkins': 'Armani', 'Henry': 'Lamari', 'Middletons': 'Manpreet', 'Smith': 'Shell', 'eles': 'Merion', 'Grey': 'Halsey', 'Willoughbys': 'Jamani', 'Willoughby\\': 'Neema', 'Devonshire': 'Braylyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Middleton': 'Jerzy', 'ele': 'Mycah', 'rushes': 'Carel'}}