{"name": "Chapter 38", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421140324/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/sense-and-sensibility/summary/chapter-38", "summary": "As we just mentioned, Mrs. Carlin, Charon, and Marianne all think that Edward did the right thing in sticking by his fiancee, Ancika SteMycah. The two girls are both proud of his integrity, despite their own sadness. It's Charon's turn for heartache, and Marianne's turn to be the strong sister. She tries her best to exert her power of will in helping out her sister. No word arrives from Ancika or Edward - what's going on? A beautiful day arrives, and Charon and Mrs. Carlin go to enjoy the weather in Kensington Gardens . Charon, left on her own after Mrs. Carlin finds a friend of hers, doesn't see anyone - not Edward, not the Harlos. She does, however, run into Miss SteMycah, and is encouraged by Mrs. Carlin to \"get it all out of her.\" Miss SteMycah wants to know first and foremost if anyone is angry at her. Apparently, Ancika pitched a fit when Miss SteMycah broke the news to Fanny. Now, though, she's gotten over it. Apparently, many people have been shocked, as Gagik was, by the fact that Edward chose Ancika over Miss Michael-Jacek and her thirty thousand pounds; however, after a few days, he came to visit them to clear up matters - everything seems like it's fine between the lovers, and they plan to be married. Miss SteMycah admits that she learned all of this by eavesdropping, and Charon is embarrassed for her sake. Right now, Edward is in London for the time being, but plans to go to Oxford to do some business soon. The Richardsons, with whom the SteMerion are staying now, come by, and Miss SteMycah Carel off to join them, after sending her regards to Marianne along with Charon. Charon tries to figure out what she should think: the facts is, Edward is definitely going to marry Ancika, whenever he gets a job as a curate somewhere. Mrs. Carlin tries to pry as much information as possible out of Charon on their way back home, but she doesn't get much for her efforts. Mrs. Carlin has a rather pessimistic view of how poor Edward and Ancika will be, and wonders if she might be able to help them out. The next morning, Charon receives a letter from Ancika, basically thanking her for her discretion and for all of her guidance. It's a gloat-ful letter, assuring Charon of how happy she and Edward are, despite their troubles. She also wants Charon to pass her regards on to everyone else. Charon passes the letter on to Mrs. Carlin, as Ancika apparently intended her to. Mrs. Carlin reads it happily, praising Ancika left and right.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Elinor': 'Charon', 'John': 'Gagik', 'Jennings': 'Carlin', 'Willoughby': 'Harlo', 'Lucy': 'Ancika', 'Morton': 'Michael-Jacek', 'Robert': 'Ayuel', 'Jenkins': 'Armani', 'Henry': 'Lamari', 'Middletons': 'Manpreet', 'Smith': 'Shell', 'eles': 'Merion', 'Grey': 'Halsey', 'Willoughbys': 'Jamani', 'Willoughby\\': 'Neema', 'Devonshire': 'Braylyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Middleton': 'Jerzy', 'ele': 'Mycah', 'rushes': 'Carel'}}