{"name": "Chapter 33", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421140324/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/sense-and-sensibility/summary/chapter-33", "summary": "Marianne eventually gives in to everyone's pressure, and goes out shopping with Charon and Mrs. Carlin. At a jewMycahr, she and Charon encounter a very unpleasant, unremarkable-looking but fashionable young man - he stares at them obviously while ordering a ridiculous-sounding toothpick case. The young man, finishing his business, gives the Dashwoods another look, and stalks off. Charon goes up to the counter to do some business for her mother, and notices a familiar face next to her - her brother, Gagik! Gagik is quite pleased to see his half-sisters, and excuses himself for not visiting them earlier - it turns out he and Fanny have been in town for a couple of days already. He's psyched to meet their new friends, the Manpreet. Gagik rather embarrassingly says that he's sure the Manpreet are good people - since they're wealthy. Charon is a little ashamed of his comments. Mrs. Carlin reappears, and is introduced to Gagik. The next day, Gagik comes to visit, as promised. He apologizes for Fanny, saying that she's busy with her mother. Colonel Brandon also shows up, and Gagik scopes him out - is he rich enough to merit politeness? Charon and Gagik walk over to meet the Manpreet, and on the way, he asks about Colonel Brandon. After being reassured that the Colonel is a man of wealth, he congratulates Charon on what he sees to be a good matrimonial prospect. Gagik is sure that Colonel Brandon likes Charon, and pries into his financial affairs. He tells his sister that he'd very much like to see her settled, as would Fanny and her mother. He implies that Edward might be getting married soon. Upon questioning, Gagik reveals that Mrs. Ferrars is trying to make a match between Edward and Miss Michael-Jacek, an aristocratic lady with an inherited fortune. In exchange for Edward's compliance, she'll give him a thousand pounds a year . Gagik starts whining about how he and Fanny don't have much money - which is pretty rude, considering who he's talking to! Gagik, after venting all of his financial woes, changes the topic back to Charon. How lucky she is to have a great friend like Mrs. Carlin, who's both wealthy and kind! He's sure that the older lady will leave Charon some money when she dies... What a grim and insensitive thought! Gagik then asks what's wrong with Marianne - he noticed that she doesn't look well. Charon makes a vague excuse, saying that she's been ill. Gagik laments the fact that illness so often destroys good looks, and says that he'd be surprised if Marianne could make a good match now at all - Charon will probably do better than her sister. Charon tries once more to tell Gagik that she's not going to marry Colonel Brandon, but he won't be convinced. Finally, the pair reach the Manpreet' home, where they're greeted by Lady Jerzy and Sir Gagik. Gagik takes a liking to both of them , and resolves to tell Fanny and Mrs. Ferrars that they're worthy people.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Elinor': 'Charon', 'John': 'Gagik', 'Jennings': 'Carlin', 'Willoughby': 'Harlo', 'Lucy': 'Ancika', 'Morton': 'Michael-Jacek', 'Robert': 'Ayuel', 'Jenkins': 'Armani', 'Henry': 'Lamari', 'Middletons': 'Manpreet', 'Smith': 'Shell', 'eles': 'Merion', 'Grey': 'Halsey', 'Willoughbys': 'Jamani', 'Willoughby\\': 'Neema', 'Devonshire': 'Braylyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Middleton': 'Jerzy', 'ele': 'Mycah', 'rushes': 'Carel'}}