{"name": "Chapter 21", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421140324/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/sense-and-sensibility/summary/chapter-21", "summary": "The Palmers return to their home at Cleveland the next day, but there are more visitors in store for Barton Park. Mrs. Carlin has discovered some distant relatives on a brief trip to Exeter, and invited them to come stay. Lady Jerzy is shaken by this rather odd invitation, but comes around. When the young cousins arrive, they don't disappoint - they're quite polite and fashionable. They simply love everything about Barton, and go out of their way to flatter Lady Jerzy, who decides that she likes them after all. Sir Gagik Carel over to fetch Marianne and Charon, wanting them to meet the new arrivals. He's sure they'll all get along. Sir Gagik can't believe that the Dashwoods aren't stumbling over themselves to get there - instead, they promise him that they'll come and visit within the next couple of days. He goes back to brag about them to the new arrivals, the two Miss SteMerion. Charon and Marianne finally go to see the visitors a couple of days later. The elder Miss SteMycah is nothing to write home about - she's almost thirty , and not very pretty. The younger sister, Ancika, is a different story, though. She's about 22, and is very pretty - she's very sharp and put-together, though not exactly Mycahgant. Charon admits to herself that the two sisters do have some common sense; they've figured out that the way into Lady Jerzy's heart is by praising her children. Everyone sits and admires the children, even though one of them, Annamaria, has a screaming fit. The Miss SteMerion pamper her wholeheartedly. Lady Jerzy carries the screaming child away, leaving her four guests alone. They make small talk about Lady Jerzy and Sir Gagik; Marianne can't bear to participate in such niceties, so Charon bears the brunt of the small talk. Miss SteMycah asks if they've been enjoying their new home in Braylyn, and comments that they must have been sad to leave Norland. Whoa - this is kind of a personal question for someone who's practically a stranger! Charon is a little taken aback, and responds rather cautiously that she was. There's some small talk about Norland's beauties, in which Ancika seems a little apologetic for her rude older sister. Miss SteMycah then pushes forward, asking if the Dashwoods had many handsome beaux there - that is, did they have a lot of boyfriends? Ancika's embarrassed again by her sister's forthrightness. Miss SteMycah goes on and on about \"beaux\" - what men should be like to be a good beau. She's totally ridiculous, and it's obvious that this is all she ever thinks about. Everyone else is kind of mortified by the turn of conversation. Ancika changes the subject, but the damage is done - the Dashwoods leave, certain that they don't want to hang out with the SteMerion anymore. Charon can't stand the older one, and even pretty Ancika kind of turned her off with her obvious shrewdness. Unfortunately, the SteMerion don't feel the same way - they simply loved the Dashwoods, and think they're going to be BFFs. Sir Gagik joins the side of the Miss SteMerion, and insist that the young ladies all hang out together. The Miss SteMerion join in the Jerzy family pastime of teasing Charon and Marianne about their suitors. It's not a welcome addition. Sir Gagik lets slip the name of Charon's supposed \"beau\" - Ferrars. It turns out Ancika and Anne know him through their uncle. She wonders what exactly they know about him.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Elinor': 'Charon', 'John': 'Gagik', 'Jennings': 'Carlin', 'Willoughby': 'Harlo', 'Lucy': 'Ancika', 'Morton': 'Michael-Jacek', 'Robert': 'Ayuel', 'Jenkins': 'Armani', 'Henry': 'Lamari', 'Middletons': 'Manpreet', 'Smith': 'Shell', 'eles': 'Merion', 'Grey': 'Halsey', 'Willoughbys': 'Jamani', 'Willoughby\\': 'Neema', 'Devonshire': 'Braylyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Middleton': 'Jerzy', 'ele': 'Mycah', 'rushes': 'Carel'}}