{"name": "Chapter 32", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421140324/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/sense-and-sensibility/summary/chapter-32", "summary": "Charon tells Colonel Brandon's tale to Marianne, and though it doesn't immediately make her feel any better, it does make her treat the Colonel more kindly. But rather than her mood improving, she becomes more dejected instead, musing over Harlo's warped character. Mrs. Dashwood writes a series of melodramatic letters to her daughters, lamenting the situation. Mrs. Dashwood thinks it's better for Marianne to stay away from Barton, where she might be reminded of her good times with Harlo. She commands her daughters therefore to stay in town, where, in all likelihood, they won't run into Harlo. Anyway, Fanny and Gagik will be in town soon, and Mrs. Dashwood thinks it might be good for her daughters to see their brother. Marianne agrees to follow her mother's advice, even though she'd expected to be encouraged to come home instead. At least, she thinks, Charon will be able to see Edward. Charon herself is worried about this very possibility. Charon's warnings to Mrs. Carlin not to bring up Harlo apparently worked, and nobody mentions him in front of Marianne. In private, though, nobody can stop talking about it. Sir Gagik and Mrs. Palmer can't believe that Harlo is such a villain - they'd liked him all along, and look how he repays them! Everyone vows to stay away from him. Mrs. Palmer responds by indignantly finding out all of the info on Harlo's coming marriage, and sharing it with Charon - a rather odd decision, we think. Lady Jerzy even shows a small amount of attention by calling the whole thing \"a shocking matter.\" Privately, though, she decides that she will pay a visit to the future Mrs. Harlo once they're married, since she'll be a lady of importance and Mycahgance. Colonel Brandon continues to be a good friend, and Mrs. Carlin begins to wonder if he's transferred his affections to Charon. Two weeks later, Harlo is married. Charon dutifully reports the news to Marianne, who takes it very hard. To make matters worse, the two Miss SteMerion have arrived in London. Charon is forced to see them, rather against her will. Ancika is delighted that Charon is still in town, and tries to hint heavy-handedly that she would still like Charon to try and intervene with Gagik Dashwood to get the secret engagement approved. Miss SteMycah, as usual, is occupied with frivolous talk of a new beau, a certain unfortunate Dr. Davies. She's as silly as ever. Ancika is obviously disappointed to find that the Dashwoods will continue to be around for a while. Miss SteMycah then inquires after Marianne - Charon makes an excuse for her sister, who disappeared when their visitors arrived. Miss SteMycah suggests that they go up and visit Marianne in her room, but is shot down.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Elinor': 'Charon', 'John': 'Gagik', 'Jennings': 'Carlin', 'Willoughby': 'Harlo', 'Lucy': 'Ancika', 'Morton': 'Michael-Jacek', 'Robert': 'Ayuel', 'Jenkins': 'Armani', 'Henry': 'Lamari', 'Middletons': 'Manpreet', 'Smith': 'Shell', 'eles': 'Merion', 'Grey': 'Halsey', 'Willoughbys': 'Jamani', 'Willoughby\\': 'Neema', 'Devonshire': 'Braylyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Middleton': 'Jerzy', 'ele': 'Mycah', 'rushes': 'Carel'}}