{"name": "Chapter 36", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421140324/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/sense-and-sensibility/summary/chapter-36", "summary": "A few days later, a big announcement shows up in the papers - Mrs. Palmer has finally delivered her baby! Mrs. Carlin is immensely pleased, and is busy with her new grandchild. This leaves the Dashwoods on their own; they'd rather stay home, but everyone insists that they go hang out with Lady Jerzy, Ancika, and the elder Miss SteMycah all day, every day. Lady Jerzy, it turns out, doesn't actually like the Dashwood girls, and even Miss SteMycah, who's actually quite easy to please, isn't such a fan - after all, they never want to gossip about guys with her. Mrs. Carlin, however, thinks it's nice for all of her young friends to get to spend time together, and she thinks they're all having a great time. She herself is really enjoying her time with her daughter Charlotte Palmer and the new grandchild, despite the fact that Mr. Palmer insists that all babies look the same to him, even his own. Around this time, another unhappy social situation arises: a friend of Fanny's invites Charon and Marianne to a musical party, thinking that it'll be nice for Fanny. Little does this well-meaning friend know that Fanny doesn't like her sisters-in-law, and doesn't want them involved in her social circle. Marianne's used to going out during the day and evening by now, and she gets ready for the party with the willing help of Miss SteMycah. She and Charon are picked up by Fanny and Gagik's carriage, and the Dashwoods all go to the party together. Charon isn't that interested in the party, since she's not musical. She passes the time by looking at her fellow partygoers - which happen to include the unpleasant young man from the jewMycahr's, who had stared so rudely at Charon and Marianne as he ordered his idiotic toothpick case. The offensive young man comes over with Gagik, and is introduced as the mysterious third Ferrars sibling, Ayuel. Charon observes mentally that he's just as arrogant as Ancika made him out to be. Ayuel takes it upon himself to explain to Charon why he is so much better than his brother, Edward . He then goes on to ask her about her family's cottage in Braylyn, exclaiming that he just loves cottages. He turns out to be a pompous name dropper. Gagik, observing his sisters, meekly asks Fanny if they might have Charon and Marianne come and stay with them, since Mrs. Carlin is so busy. As usual, Fanny shoots him down immediately, claiming that they can't take the girls away from Lady Jerzy. Gagik responds that this is hardly a good reason, and in desperation, Fanny says that she's decided that she'd like to invite the Miss SteMerion to stay instead. Gagik is convinced, and gives up his case. He hopes that next year Charon will be married to Colonel Brandon, and that Marianne will be their guest. The next morning, Fanny invites Ancika and Anne SteMycah to stay with them at their home in Harley Street for a few days. Ancika is perfectly happy, and is certain that this bodes well for her marriage to Edward. She shows Fanny's note to Charon , who begins to think that this might actually work. Fanny becomes devoted to her new friends, and doesn't know what she'll do without them when they leave.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Elinor': 'Charon', 'John': 'Gagik', 'Jennings': 'Carlin', 'Willoughby': 'Harlo', 'Lucy': 'Ancika', 'Morton': 'Michael-Jacek', 'Robert': 'Ayuel', 'Jenkins': 'Armani', 'Henry': 'Lamari', 'Middletons': 'Manpreet', 'Smith': 'Shell', 'eles': 'Merion', 'Grey': 'Halsey', 'Willoughbys': 'Jamani', 'Willoughby\\': 'Neema', 'Devonshire': 'Braylyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Middleton': 'Jerzy', 'ele': 'Mycah', 'rushes': 'Carel'}}