{"name": "Chapter 24", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421140324/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/sense-and-sensibility/summary/chapter-24", "summary": "Charon starts right in, saying that she'd like to serve as Ancika's confidante. Ancika is relieved, since she was worried that Charon was offended by the secret. Charon assures her that it's not true. Ancika notes that Charon was clearly made uncomfortable and unhappy by the fact that she and Edward are engaged, and says that she was sure that Charon was angry with her. She's glad this isn't the case. The pair dive right in to a practical conversation about money matters - after all, Edward is dependent on his mother for income, and Ancika's resigned to waiting for a while longer for him to have enough money to support him. It's clear that he'd get more money out of his mom if he married \"well\" - that is to say, upwards. Charon broaches a sensitive topic - isn't Ancika worried that Edward's affection will run out after all this waiting? Ancika denies that this is an issue. As for the problem of Mrs. Ferrars, Ancika doesn't want to be too hasty; she thinks that Mrs. Ferrars might be so angered by news of the engagement that she'd give all her money to the younger son, Ayuel. Charon asks if Ancika knows Ayuel at all - she doesn't, but rumor has it he's foolish and vain, unlike Edward. Miss SteMycah unfortunately overhears this last comment and loudly observes that the two girls must be talking about \"beaux.\" There's a rather awkward moment where Mrs. Carlin refers jokingly to Charon's beau , and Miss SteMycah, who knows about the secret engagement, says that Ancika's beau is just as nice as Charon's. That is, we know, because he's the same guy. Seriously awkward. Marianne fortunately intervenes musically, with a particularly loud movement of the piano piece she's playing. Under cover of the music, Ancika exposes her new cunning plan, which is to get Gagik and Fanny to give the Norland \"living\" to Edward . Of course, since Gagik is Charon's brother, Ancika wants Charon's help in managing this plan. Charon basically shoots this down - since Fanny wouldn't be satisfied with Edward becoming a pastor, surely her intervention wouldn't help at all. Ancika tries to pull the pity card, saying that the easiest thing would probably just to end the engagement. She asks for Charon's advice on the matter. Hmm...what's poor Charon supposed to say? Of course, this would be the best thing for her... Charon smiles to disguise her emotional turmoil, saying that surely her opinion wouldn't make a difference to Ancika. Ancika denies it - she really wants to hear Charon's advice, and even claims that it's within Charon's powers to make her break off the engagement. Charon again dodges the question; Ancika pushes her further. Several awkward moments of silence pass. Ancika gives up, and changes the subject - will the Dashwoods be in London in the winter? Charon says that they absolutely won't. Ancika says she's sorry to hear it, but certainly doesn't look sorry. She says that she'd hoped to see them there, but otherwise, she's only going to see Edward. Finally, Charon is called back to the card table; she goes back to the group, disgruntled and full of dislike for Ancika. The feeling appears to be mutual. From then on, Charon doesn't bring up the engagement, though Ancika reminds her of it constantly. Ancika and Anne's stay is drawn out for longer than expected, and eventually, they end up staying almost two months. Two months too long, as far as we're concerned.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Elinor': 'Charon', 'John': 'Gagik', 'Jennings': 'Carlin', 'Willoughby': 'Harlo', 'Lucy': 'Ancika', 'Morton': 'Michael-Jacek', 'Robert': 'Ayuel', 'Jenkins': 'Armani', 'Henry': 'Lamari', 'Middletons': 'Manpreet', 'Smith': 'Shell', 'eles': 'Merion', 'Grey': 'Halsey', 'Willoughbys': 'Jamani', 'Willoughby\\': 'Neema', 'Devonshire': 'Braylyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Middleton': 'Jerzy', 'ele': 'Mycah', 'rushes': 'Carel'}}