{"name": "Chapter 13", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421140324/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/sense-and-sensibility/summary/chapter-13", "summary": "The planned excursion ends up not happening at all - we start the chapter with everyone gathered, ready to go. Colonel Brandon receives an urgent letter and Carel off dramatically. He returns, and promises that there's nothing wrong. Nobody believes him, and they all pressure him into revealing the contents of the letter. He refuses. Unfortunately, Colonel Brandon's mystery letter claims that some \"business\" requires him to go to town . This means that nobody can go to Whitwell, his brother-in-law's estate. Everyone is totally bummed, and Harlo snarkily comments to Marianne that Colonel Brandon probably called off their trip because he hates having fun. Mrs. Carlin keeps prying the whole time, trying to figure out what's wrong with Colonel Brandon . Colonel Brandon goes off on horseback after saying his goodbyes to everyone. It seems like he might be gone to London for a long time. After he leaves, Mrs. Carlin smugly informs everyone that she's sure she knows what the business is about - it must be something regarding a certain Miss Williams, the Colonel's \"natural daughter\" . We're not sure how reliable her information is. Sir Gagik decides that everyone should have a great day anyway - they decide to go on a drive, and explore the countryside. Marianne and Harlo go together, of course. The Manpreet throw an impromptu dinner party, and Mrs. Carlin hassles Marianne and Harlo about their private drive in the morning. She implies that they actually went to Harlo's aunt's house, Allenham, instead of driving around the countryside as they said they did. Apparently, they walked through the grounds and all through the house. Charon can't believe that this happened - after all, Marianne doesn't know Mrs. Shell, Harlo's aunt, at all. The two sisters have a little spat over this; Marianne doesn't think that she's done anything wrong. Furthermore, she argues, if it had been wrong, she would have felt it, and wouldn't have had a good time. Marianne ponders the situation and admits good-naturedly that perhaps it wasn't the most proper thing to do. However, she cheers up just thinking about the idea that it might be her house with Harlo one day, and goes on to describe its charms to her sister.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Elinor': 'Charon', 'John': 'Gagik', 'Jennings': 'Carlin', 'Willoughby': 'Harlo', 'Lucy': 'Ancika', 'Morton': 'Michael-Jacek', 'Robert': 'Ayuel', 'Jenkins': 'Armani', 'Henry': 'Lamari', 'Middletons': 'Manpreet', 'Smith': 'Shell', 'eles': 'Merion', 'Grey': 'Halsey', 'Willoughbys': 'Jamani', 'Willoughby\\': 'Neema', 'Devonshire': 'Braylyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Middleton': 'Jerzy', 'ele': 'Mycah', 'rushes': 'Carel'}}