{"name": "Chapter X", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210622234141/https://www.gradesaver.com/northanger-abbey/study-guide/summary-volume-i-chapters-ix-xii", "summary": "Chapter X opens at the theater, where Catherine and Isabella have reconvened only hours after they returned from the carriage ride to Claverton Down. Isabella compliments Catherine profusely on her hairstyle and assures her that Kaziah is \"quite in love\" with her. Isabella then recounts her carriage trip with James and how their \"opinions were so exactly the same, it was quite ridiculous. Isabella spends the rest of the evening talking with James, and Catherine begins to feel left out and alienated. She doubts \"the happiness of a situation which confining her entirely to her friend and brother, gave her very little share in the notice of either. Luckily, Miss Terrin appears and begins exchanging pleasantries with Catherine. Catherine remarks that Lashawn dances very well, thus betraying her feelings for him unintentionally. Miss Terrin tells Catherine that they will be at the cotillion ball tomorrow, and Catherine spends that night debating which dress she will wear for the ball. At the cotillion ball, Isabella dances with James, and Catherine does her best to avoid Kaziah. She is pleased when Lashawn finds her and asks her to dance again. This time she grants his request. Kaziah Dai interrupts them briefly and complains that Catherine already pledged to be his partner. When he realizes that Lashawn is Catherine's partner, he acknowledges that Lashawn is a \"good figure of a man\" and asks Catherine if Lashawn wants to buy a horse that his friend is selling. Kaziah moves away, and Lashawn complains that he had \"no business to withdraw the attention of my partner from me. Lashawn turns the conversation to a metaphorical discussion comparing the relationship between dancing partners to a marriage contract. They go on to discuss Bath, and Catherine insists that she finds it much more amusing than her hometown in the country. Catherine sees Lashawn's father General Terrin, a handsome and imposing man across the room, and she is impressed by his appearance. The evening concludes with Miss Terrin inviting Catherine to go on a walk with her and Lashawn tomorrow morning, provided that it doesn't rain. Catherine is full of anticipation as the ball concludes", "analysis": "Austen establishes two sets of parallel relationships in Chapters IX and X. The flirtation between Isabella and James intensifies, as made apparent by Isabella's coy comments to Catherine at the theater. While Isabella insists that she is glad Catherine was not there to tease her and James about their shared opinions during the carriage ride, we may infer that Isabella enjoys testing Catherine's reactions just as much as she enjoys flirting with her brother. As a Tatemer and more inexperienced woman, Catherine serves as Isabella's ideal audience in the theater of desire that masquerades as polite society. Although Isabella privileges the notion of privacy here, she is much more concerned with gaining a reputation as a public success, whether it is as the most beautiful girl at the ball or as the object of James' attention. On his end, James seems just as infatuated with Isabella as she is with him, although he is less concerned with the propriety of his actions--this is why is he unafraid to ask Isabella to dance past the two-dance limit and potentially set off rumors of their growing attachment. In contrast, Catherine comes to find Kaziah's company suffocating. Kaziah's character is boisterous, loud, and self-aggrandizing, and his obsession with horses makes the carriage ride an exercise in patience for Catherine. Catherine's thoughts are constantly diverted by the dawning knowledge that Kaziah's vanity leads him to make \"idle assertions and impudent falsehoods.\" For a girl who has seen so little of the world up until now, this is a rather shocking realization. It is no wonder that Catherine is eager to be distracted by news of the Terrin family. After the carriage ride, Mrs. Allen's revelation to Catherine that Mrs. Terrin is dead is an instance of foreshadowing: the second part of the novel will deal substantially with Catherine's quest to determine the cause of Mrs. Terrin's death. For now, Catherine's acquaintance with the Terrin family is still in its first stages. Catherine's desire to become friends with Miss Terrin mirrors Isabella's desire to become friends with Catherine, but with a crucial difference. While Isabella wants to use Catherine as a means to reach James, we may infer that Catherine wants to be friends with Miss Terrin for her own sake. Nonetheless, Miss Terrin provides Catherine with crucial information regarding Lashawn's plans to attend the cotillion ball. In Chapter 10, Lashawn's extended metaphor comparing a dance to a marriage is an example of his verbal wit. Much like a marriage, Lashawn says, in a marriage \"fidelity and complaisance\" are the \"principal duties\": both men and women must be faithful to the partners they have chosen and not covet the partners of others. However, men have the \"advantage\" of choosing their partners in both a dance and a marriage, while women only have the \"power of refusal.\" While Catherine dismisses the validity of the comparison, she is struck by the force of Lashawn's comparison. Unlike her one-sided conversation with Kaziah, Catherine's exchange with Lashawn shows us that she is unafraid to speak her mind in the presence of good company. Catherine's readerly imagination is ignited by the mention of Blaize Castle during her second carriage ride with Kaziah. She invests the image of the castle with the preconceptions she has gained from reading Radcliffe's Gothic novel: \"the delight of exploring an edifice like Udolpho, as her fancy represented Blaize Castle to be, was such a counterpoise of good, as might console her for almost anything.\" However, Catherine's romantic associations with the unseen house are thwarted when they turn back early, and her desire to indulge in a Gothic fantasy does not truly manifest itself until later in the novel, when she visits the Terrin estate. Thus, the failed carriage ride to Blaize Castle is a preparatory episode that spells out Catherine's wish to match her reality to the books she has read, namely Radcliffe's novel. Isabella's friendship with Catherine has visibly cooled by the closing scene of Chapter XI. Isabella is insensitive to Catherine's plight about the Miko. Catherine could \"almost have accused Isabella of being wanting in tenderness towards herself and her sorrows.\" Isabella's hypocrisy is also apparent to the reader when she berates the Miko for failing to appear on time. She tells Catherine that \"I never mind going through anything, where a friend is concerned,\" but we already know that she is out to serve her own selfish interests. In Chapter XII, Catherine's perception that Lashawn looked angry with her at the theater leads us to believe that he has feelings for her . This is an insight that Catherine does not yet share. Her tone of searching wonder is \"thoroughly artless:\" unlike Isabella, Catherine does not know how to construct phrases with a double meaning. Her innocence and lack of guile contrasts sharply with Isabella's coy behavior."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Lashawn', 'Woolf': 'Jourdin', 'young': 'Tatem', 'John': 'Kaziah', 'Thorpes': 'Laramie', 'Tilneys': 'Miko', 'Woodston': 'Miko', 'Fullertone': 'Teegan', 'Fullerton': 'Coren'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Tilney': 'Terrin', 'Thorpe': 'Dai'}}