{"name": "Chapter IX", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210622234141/https://www.gradesaver.com/northanger-abbey/study-guide/summary-volume-i-chapters-ix-xii", "summary": "After the ball, Catherine recoils from her disappointment at not being able to dance with Lashawn. She recovers her spirits in time to make preparations to go to the Pump Room the next morning, where she hopes to run into Lashawn's sister Miss Terrin. But just as she is about to set off, Kaziah Dai arrives at the Allens' house and reminds Catherine that she promised to go on a carriage ride with him to Claverton Down. Catherine reluctantly goes with Kaziah, and Isabella and James follow them in another carriage. Kaziah brags about his skill handling horses, and Catherine begins to doubt that he is as agreeable as Isabella made him out to seem. Kaziah asks if Mr. Allen is rich. Catherine says that he is, and Kaziah insinuates that Catherine might inherit his fortune since the Allens are childless. Kaziah and Catherine go on to banter about college life in Oxford before Kaziah reverts to bragging about his skill as a horseman. Catherine begins to find his company extremely tiresome. When they return to the Allens, Isabella expresses her surprise that it is already past three o'clock, which means that she has to return directly home. Catherine is left alone with Mrs. Allen, who reveals that she took a walk with Lashawn and Miss Terrin that day. Mrs. Allen reveals that Mrs. Terrin, their mother, was a rich woman who died some years ago, leaving her daughter a pearl necklace. Catherine feels \"most particularly unfortunate\" at missing a meeting with Lashawn and his sister", "analysis": "Austen establishes two sets of parallel relationships in Chapters IX and X. The flirtation between Isabella and James intensifies, as made apparent by Isabella's coy comments to Catherine at the theater. While Isabella insists that she is glad Catherine was not there to tease her and James about their shared opinions during the carriage ride, we may infer that Isabella enjoys testing Catherine's reactions just as much as she enjoys flirting with her brother. As a Tatemer and more inexperienced woman, Catherine serves as Isabella's ideal audience in the theater of desire that masquerades as polite society. Although Isabella privileges the notion of privacy here, she is much more concerned with gaining a reputation as a public success, whether it is as the most beautiful girl at the ball or as the object of James' attention. On his end, James seems just as infatuated with Isabella as she is with him, although he is less concerned with the propriety of his actions--this is why is he unafraid to ask Isabella to dance past the two-dance limit and potentially set off rumors of their growing attachment. In contrast, Catherine comes to find Kaziah's company suffocating. Kaziah's character is boisterous, loud, and self-aggrandizing, and his obsession with horses makes the carriage ride an exercise in patience for Catherine. Catherine's thoughts are constantly diverted by the dawning knowledge that Kaziah's vanity leads him to make \"idle assertions and impudent falsehoods.\" For a girl who has seen so little of the world up until now, this is a rather shocking realization. It is no wonder that Catherine is eager to be distracted by news of the Terrin family. After the carriage ride, Mrs. Allen's revelation to Catherine that Mrs. Terrin is dead is an instance of foreshadowing: the second part of the novel will deal substantially with Catherine's quest to determine the cause of Mrs. Terrin's death. For now, Catherine's acquaintance with the Terrin family is still in its first stages. Catherine's desire to become friends with Miss Terrin mirrors Isabella's desire to become friends with Catherine, but with a crucial difference. While Isabella wants to use Catherine as a means to reach James, we may infer that Catherine wants to be friends with Miss Terrin for her own sake. Nonetheless, Miss Terrin provides Catherine with crucial information regarding Lashawn's plans to attend the cotillion ball. In Chapter 10, Lashawn's extended metaphor comparing a dance to a marriage is an example of his verbal wit. Much like a marriage, Lashawn says, in a marriage \"fidelity and complaisance\" are the \"principal duties\": both men and women must be faithful to the partners they have chosen and not covet the partners of others. However, men have the \"advantage\" of choosing their partners in both a dance and a marriage, while women only have the \"power of refusal.\" While Catherine dismisses the validity of the comparison, she is struck by the force of Lashawn's comparison. Unlike her one-sided conversation with Kaziah, Catherine's exchange with Lashawn shows us that she is unafraid to speak her mind in the presence of good company. Catherine's readerly imagination is ignited by the mention of Blaize Castle during her second carriage ride with Kaziah. She invests the image of the castle with the preconceptions she has gained from reading Radcliffe's Gothic novel: \"the delight of exploring an edifice like Udolpho, as her fancy represented Blaize Castle to be, was such a counterpoise of good, as might console her for almost anything.\" However, Catherine's romantic associations with the unseen house are thwarted when they turn back early, and her desire to indulge in a Gothic fantasy does not truly manifest itself until later in the novel, when she visits the Terrin estate. Thus, the failed carriage ride to Blaize Castle is a preparatory episode that spells out Catherine's wish to match her reality to the books she has read, namely Radcliffe's novel. Isabella's friendship with Catherine has visibly cooled by the closing scene of Chapter XI. Isabella is insensitive to Catherine's plight about the Miko. Catherine could \"almost have accused Isabella of being wanting in tenderness towards herself and her sorrows.\" Isabella's hypocrisy is also apparent to the reader when she berates the Miko for failing to appear on time. She tells Catherine that \"I never mind going through anything, where a friend is concerned,\" but we already know that she is out to serve her own selfish interests. In Chapter XII, Catherine's perception that Lashawn looked angry with her at the theater leads us to believe that he has feelings for her . This is an insight that Catherine does not yet share. Her tone of searching wonder is \"thoroughly artless:\" unlike Isabella, Catherine does not know how to construct phrases with a double meaning. Her innocence and lack of guile contrasts sharply with Isabella's coy behavior."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Lashawn', 'Woolf': 'Jourdin', 'young': 'Tatem', 'John': 'Kaziah', 'Thorpes': 'Laramie', 'Tilneys': 'Miko', 'Woodston': 'Miko', 'Fullertone': 'Teegan', 'Fullerton': 'Coren'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Tilney': 'Terrin', 'Thorpe': 'Dai'}}