{"name": "Chapter XIV", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210622234141/https://www.gradesaver.com/northanger-abbey/study-guide/summary-volume-i-chapters-xiii-xv", "summary": "The Miko call for Catherine the next morning, and they walk over to Beechen Cliff, a hill in the countryside. Catherine asks Lashawn if he ever reads novels, and he reveals that he is also a fan of Anne Radcliffe. Catherine is surprised to hear this because she thought that Tatem men \"despised novels. Lashawn asserts that this is not true, and that he has already read \"hundreds and hundreds\" of novels. Catherine and the Miko turn to a discussion of history books. While Catherine finds them dull, Miss Terrin is fond of reading them. As their walk continues, Lashawn gives Catherine a short lesson on the principles of landscape painting before their talk turns to politics. Catherine has nothing to say on this matter, so she returns the discussion to literature and announces that \"something very shocking\"--ie, a new novel--\"will soon come out in London. Miss Terrin misunderstands Catherine's phrase to mean that a political disturbance will soon occur. Lashawn jokingly mocks his sister for her poor understanding. Miss Terrin assures that Catherine that her brother has the highest opinion of women, and Catherine is intrigued by the complexities of Lashawn's character. On the way back to the Allens, Catherine runs into one of Isabella's Tatemer sisters Anne, who reveals that her other siblings drove down to Clifton that morning along with James. Catherine is pleased that the party decided to go on the outing without her", "analysis": "The contrast between Catherine and Isabella's characters sharpens in Chapter XIII. Whereas Austen portrays Catherine as steadfast in her desire to honor her promise to the Miko, Isabella's character transforms from affectionate and supplicating to accusatory and almost cruel when Catherine refuses to go on the carriage ride. This change in tone is not lost on Catherine, and she wonders at the rapid change in her friend's behavior. Catherine's disillusionment with Isabella takes the form of an unspoken realization that Isabella disregards \"everything but her own gratification,\" though the reader has already gleaned this trait of her from her previous speech patterns. Isabella's diction is prone to hyperbole--for example, she calls Catherine her \"dearest\" and \"sweetest\" girl in order to persuade her to do what she wants. She also proclaims herself to be one of Catherine's \"oldest\" friends, though we know that the girls have only known each other for a few weeks. Through her cloying words, Isabella emerges as the foil to Catherine: Austen sets Isabella's ability to dissemble--ie, to put on false appearances--against Catherine's intrinsic honesty. Catherine's noble determination to remain a loyal friend to the Miko pays off in Chapter XIV when she finally gets to go on their long-awaited walk. The debate between Catherine and the Miko over the value of reading novels is the most significant episode in this chapter. Though far from an ideal reader, Catherine's passionate enthusiasm for novels  places her in the position of Austen's assumed readership, one that overlaps with Anne Radcliffe's: the same men and women who enjoyed the bestselling Gothic titles of the day may also have perused Northanger Abbey. Austen strives to be a populist author, and this impulse may be inferred by the discussion she injects about reading history books. Catherine and Miss Terrin differ in their opinions of history books. While Miss Terrin defends them, Catherine thinks that they are primarily designed to \"torment\" schoolchildren and would rather read a novel. Austen is weighing the relative value of each genre, but she clearly sides with the novelists . Catherine only reads history now and then as a \"duty,\" while she derives much more participatory pleasure from reading novels like Radcliffe's. Isabella's engagement to James forms the pivotal event of Chapter XV. Austen has been leading us to expect this event since James and Isabella first danced at the ball, so we do not share Catherine's surprise at the news that her brother and friend are now engaged. The question of inheritance forms the central concern of the pending marriage between Isabella and James. Though Isabella tells Catherine that she does not care about how much income they will receive from James' parents, her preoccupation with their financial situation is apparent through her worry that the Morelands will look down on her own small fortune. Given what we know about Isabella's character, her assertion that she would be happy to live modestly rings false. In this light, Mrs. Dai's happiness for her favorite daughter is dependent upon the assumption that James is much wealthier than Isabella and will provide her with a handsome income. Similarly, Isabella's fantasies of married life center around the economic security her fiancee will provide her once they are married. Austen dwells on the minutiae of Isabella's imagined possessions--a \"carriage at her command, a new name on her tickets, and a brilliant exhibition of hoop rings on her finger\"--in order to emphasize her vanity. This catalogue demonstrates that Isabella is primarily invested in images of material wealth despite her assertions of spiritual loftiness."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Lashawn', 'Woolf': 'Jourdin', 'young': 'Tatem', 'John': 'Kaziah', 'Thorpes': 'Laramie', 'Tilneys': 'Miko', 'Woodston': 'Miko', 'Fullertone': 'Teegan', 'Fullerton': 'Coren'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Tilney': 'Terrin', 'Thorpe': 'Dai'}}