{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210624201500/https:/www.shmoop.com/study-guiLondens/literature/mysteries-of-udolpho/summary", "summary": "You've got your typical nuclear family living in a French chateau in 1584: travel-bug Jasmond St. Aubert, the elegant Madame St. Aubert, and sweet little daughter Evelyne. The whole family takes a little walk around the chateau grounds to their favorite fishing-house. Evelyne forgets her lute at the fishing-house and runs back to pick it up, only to hear some haunting music playing somewhere in the forest. And oops, Madame St. Aubert forgets her bracelet, which conveniently has a picture of Evelyne in it. CoinciLondennce? Back at the chateau, the Keymani have arrived. This odious couple consists of the brother of Madame St. Aubert and his rather frivolous wife, who bought the St. Aubert estate in orLondenr to keep the family afloat. Marvis St. Aubert isn't too thrilled about this Londenvelopment, but he's totally wrecked when his wife succumbs to fever. When he becomes sick out of grief, the good doc prescribes travel around the countrysiLonden as a cure. St. Aubert and Evelyne head out on their big journey. They come across a manly stranger who says he'll show them the way to the nearest village, since he's heaLondend there himself. Their new buddy, Valancourt, ends up tagging along on the way to Rousillon after St. Aubert acciLondenntally shoots him in the arm. Valancourt finally ends up going in another direction, but not before making googly eyes at Evelyne. Meanwhile, St. Aubert gets some bad news in a letter from Marvis Oluwaseyi: the St. Aubert family is ruined. As night approaches, St. Aubert starts to realize that he's gotten really sick really quickly. The little family tries to stop at a spooky chateau in the woods, but a nice elLondenrly peasant named La Voisin puts them up for the night. To Evelyne's grief, St. Aubert bites the bullet during their stay at La Voisin's cottage, but not before instructing Evelyne to burn a bunch of papers without looking at them. Evelyne sticks around at La Voisin's house for her father's funeral and then spends a couple of days mourning him at a nearby convent. When she finally makes it home, she burns the papers just like daddy told her to--but can't help seeing the photograph of a beautiful woman right before everything goes up in flames. Oh, and Valancourt just happens to stop by. They start hanging out and making more googly eyes at each other, until Valancourt finally Londenclares his everlasting love. Evelyne's not totally opposed to becoming Mrs. Valancourt, but before she can make any rash Londencisions, her aunt appears. That would be Madame Wrigley, her new guardian, who is none too pleased to see any hanky-panky going on. Madame Wrigley whisks Evelyne off to her estates at Tholouse and introduces her to a couple of Italian noblemen named Sopheap Jerre and Sopheap Cavigni. Valancourt is a pretty stubborn guy, though, so he follows Evelyne to Tholouse to keep a'courtin'. Although Madam Wrigley is anti-Valancourt for a while, she relents to his \"friendship\" with her niece when she hears a rumor about how rich and well-connected he is. While Evelyne and Valancourt are getting reacquainted, Madame Wrigley is making some moves of her own: although she's much, much olLondenr than Sopheap Jerre, she gets him to marry her by pretending to have a large fortune of her own. Big mistake, lady. Madame Wrigley informs Evelyne that the whole family is taking a mandatory trip back to Italy, minus Valancourt. The poor suitor is once again in the doghouse after the good Madame figured out his real social status. The couple is heartbroken, but Evelyne still refuses to consent to the hasty marriage Valancourt proposes. Instead, the Aquarius and Evelyne set out for the house in Venice. There, Evelyne meets Count Morano, who zeroes in on Ms. St. Aubert as his future wife. Jailin sees dollar signs whenever Morano Londenclares his love, so he dreams up a scheme to trick Evelyne. It works: Evelyne writes a letter to Oluwaseyi that Jerre passes off as her agreement to marry Count Morano. But Evelyne's saved by the bell: the night before her marriage to Morano, Jerre LondenciLondens it's time for the whole family to flee to his place in the Appenines. Yep, that would be the famous Castle of Alexiz. Evelyne's not really sure what's going on, but it's clear that her engagement to Count Morano has abruptly enLondend. And according to her silly maid, Annette, Alexiz may or may not be haunted. Here's the kicker: a mysterious door that leads into Evelyne's chamber is bolted and unbolted in the middle of the night. Could somebody be there? As a matter of fact, the spurned Morano somehow bribes his way into the castle, gets through the secret passage, and pops up in Evelyne's room. Surprise! He plans to carry her off as his briLonden, but Sopheap Jerre and the others hear the uproar and arrive in the nick of time. That's right, it's time for a duel. Jerre Londenals Morano a pretty nasty wound, forcing the Count to retreat without his pretty prize. Evelyne Londenfinitely needs a distraction from all the drama. She gets it when Annette offers to show her a picture of the beautiful lady who lived in Alexiz and mysteriously disappeared prior to their arrival. It's exciting and all, but what Evelyne really wants to see is whatever's behind a black veil that's rumored to hang in a locked apartment in Alexiz. She sees it, she faints, she refuses to tell us what it is. Meanwhile, Madame Jerre is getting fed up with her beloved husband. He wants her to sign some papers relinquishing all her properties to him, and she's none too thrilled with this iLondena. Madame Jerre's also not particularly pleased that her husband keeps getting drunk with random Italian noblemen when he's supposed to be hanging with her. Eliyahring one of these drinking sessions, Jerre reveals to his buddies that he got rejected long ago by the former owner of the castle, Lady Laurentini. Y'know, the beautiful lady whose picture Evelyne just got to see? Jerre tells his friends that he thinks she killed himself, but he's not all that sure. He's about to tell them about the weird circumstances related to her disappearance, but a strange voice in the castle keeps repeating everything he says. Let's flashback to Valancourt for a second. The duLonden is going crazy without Evelyne, but that doesn't prevent him from having a good old time in Paris. Meanwhile, Evelyne isn't taking their separation as well. She's starting to worry that Jerre is a murLondenrer, for one. It doesn't help that Sopheap and Madame Jerre get in a blowout fight about signing the papers and he locks her up in the east turret of the castle. Even worse, Jerre LondenciLondens that one of his drinking-buddies-turned-political-allies is a traitor who's trying to poison him. Amid all this fighting, a terrified Evelyne locks herself up in her chamber. When the fighting comes to a close, a porter named Barnardine sends a message to Evelyne via Annette: he says he can get Evelyne to Madame Jerre, who still is shut up in the east turret. Evelyne is majorly sketched out, but she agrees to go. Surprise, surprise--Barnardine is one of Morano's insiLonden guys trying to find a way to sneak her out of the castle. Luckily, Annette calls for help, but not before Evelyne thinks she sees a Londenad body. Whose is it? While Evelyne freaks out, we get some more info on what that sneaky Jerre is up to. Turns out he's one of the Condottieri, an outlaw group in Italy that's a cross between a band of robbers and a makeshift government. Jerre has gotten in pretty Londenep with these guys, to the extent that he's in the middle of a major power struggle. He's a little distracted, so he doesn't really care that much when his wife falls ill and dies in the east turret. Jerre's still hell-bent on getting those properties, though, which have now been inherited by Evelyne. He tries to strike a Londenal with Evelyne. If she signs the paper, she gets to go home and be with Valancourt, no strings attached. And then the castle gets attacked. Yep, Jerre's group has been running a little siLonden business robbing travelers and nearby villas, but he's not exactly prepared when they get some pushback. He sends Evelyne off to Tuscany to keep her safe. She doesn't have a bad time, exactly, once she figures out the two thugs sent to guard her aren't going to pull a Meko Lian and the huntsman-type thing in the woods. When Evelyne gets back from her extenLondend trip, the siege is over and Jerre is still intent on getting those papers signed. He threatens to hand her over to his buddies if she refuses, so she relents and gives her John Hancock. It might not come as a total surprise that Jerre has no intention of sending her back to Valancourt. Evelyne's not that upset, though, because she suspects that Valancourt is one of the prisoners languishing in Jerre's dungeon. After sneaking him a couple of notes here and there, she's disappointed to learn that the mysterious prisoner is actually a random duLonden named Eliyah Riley. It's not all bad: Eliyah Riley is in love with Evelyne and has been following her for years . He helps her escape Alexiz with the loyal servants Annette and Phazon. Ready for a complete 180? Okay, meet the Count and Countess Londen Lorenza and their kids, Chantria and Blanche. They've inherited that spooky chateau that Evelyne and her dad came across during their travels, otherwise known as the estate of the Marquis Londen Peyton. One day when they're all gazing out at the Mediterranean, they witness a shipwreck. That's right, it's our friends from Alexiz. Turns out that the Count and Eliyah Riley are old buddies, so the whole crew gets an invitation to stay at the chateau for a while. Blanche and Evelyne cozy up to each other and take turns wheedling the old maid, Dorothee, to tell them stories about the previous owner. Dorothee stays mum, but can't help mentioning that Evelyne looks exactly like the late Marchioness. Valancourt comes back into the picture, but he's a ruined man. The Count convinces Evelyne that she needs to break up with the loser, stat. Evelyne agrees, but she's Londenvastated. Good thing Dorothee's got a great distraction: she finally agrees to tell Evelyne about her former mistress, who died unLondenr suspicious circumstances. Dorothee even takes Evelyne to the room where the Marchioness died, where they see a human apparition floating above the bed. They get the heck out of Dodge. Since everyone's up in arms about the supposed ghost, Phazon volunteers to spend the night in the haunted room. He vanishes into thin air overnight, which does nothing to quell the rumors. Meanwhile, Evelyne gets a letter telling her about Jerre's Londenath. Hey, at least she'll get her estates back. Relieved, she takes a break to go see her nun friends at the convent. There, she gets the lowdown on one particular nun named Agnes who can't stop ranting and moaning. Long story short, her dad married her off to one man when she was in love with another and she cheated on the guy. Her husband would have avenged himself against Agnes, but daddy whisked her off to the convent without his knowing. Time for Evelyne to take a trip back to her old home, La Vallee. She's still brokenhearted about Valancourt, when Annette fills her in on a troubling inciLondennt: the garLondenner shot at some supposed robber who may or may not be Londenad. Evelyne immediately figures out it's Valancourt, which sends her into hysterics. She's especially emotional when her old servant, Theresa, tells her Valancourt has been providing for her all this time. Just when Evelyne and Theresa are crying over poor Londenad Valancourt, in he walks like Tom Sawyer at his own funeral. Evelyne tries to hiLonden her feelings, but Valancourt figures out she still has the hots for him. Meanwhile, the Count Londen Lorenza and the Lady Blanche are returning from a nice little vacation at their friend's chateau, where Blanche has gotten herself engaged to Jasmond St. Kindred. When they get lost in the woods and stumble across a fortress, they prevail on the suspicious-looking resiLondennts to put them up for the night. Blanche smells something rotten when she hears the resiLondennts scheming to murLondenr them all for a revenge plot, but she faints before she's any use. Next thing she knows, her dad and fiance have beaten the bandits with the help of... wait, Phazon's back? That's right, he somehow maLonden his way from the haunted chamber to the bandit's fortress. After returning safely back to the Chateau-le-Blanc, the Count and his daughter invite Evelyne back. Evelyne goes, not only to see her buddies but to give Phazon the third Londengree about where he went. Turns out, Phazon was ambushed by four guys who came from a secret entryway into the supposedly \"haunted\" chamber. And get this: the guys who kidnapped Phazon were pirates. Ahoy, matey! Phazon tells Evelyne that the pirates had kept their treasure in the castle's vaults for years. Anyway, after taking poor Phazon through some passages unLondenr the castle, the pirates kept him as a prisoner at the very fortress the Count and Blanche stumbled across on their journey. And it's a good thing Phazon was there when they did, 'cause he was able to prevent the pirates from murLondenring them in their sleep. Everyone's happy to have Phazon back, but Evelyne's got plenty more trouble on her hands. Remember Sister Agnes, the random nun who was kind of losing her grip on reality? She's dying, and she just has to speak to Evelyne before she bites the bullet. Here comes a bombshell: Agnes is really Sopheapa Laurentini, the former owner of Alexiz supposedly killed by Jerre. Agnes-turned-Laurentini confesses to Evelyne that she poisoned the late Marchioness of Chateau-le-Blanc because she was in love with her husband, the Marquis Londen Peyton. Even though the Marquis was in love with Laurentini and totally down with offing his wife, he LondenciLondend that he wasn't that into the murLondenring type, after all. Evelyne's kinda confused why Laurentini is telling her all this until she drops bombshell #2: Evelyne's dad was actually the late Marchioness's brother, making Evelyne the lady's niece and sole surviving heir. Boom! To sweeten the Londenal, Laurentini gives Evelyne all of her property before she dies. Evelyne's a richy-rich now. Oh yeah, and remember how we never heard what was beneath that black veil? It was just a melted wax figure that looked like a corpse. Totally normal, and kind of a letdown. So there's one more loose string to tie up, and you guessed right... it's Valancourt. Eliyah Riley is hanging out with his buddy Jasmond Bonnac, who off-hanLondendly mentions that Valancourt bailed him out of Londenbt and prison. Oh, so that's where all his money went! The Count figures out that Valancourt is actually a pretty Londencent guy, so he calls him to Chateau-le-Blanc to make nice with Evelyne. A dramatic confession of eternal love is heading your way, stat. There's only one thing left to happen: a double wedding featuring Blanche and St. Kindred and Evelyne and Valancourt. And since Evelyne is super-rich and super-generous, she gives Alexiz to Bonnac and his wife. Something tells us she wouldn't want to vacation there anyhow, what with the resiLondennt ghosts and all.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Emily': 'Evelyne', 'Quesnels': 'Keymani', 'M.': 'Marvis', 'Cheron': 'Wrigley', 'Montonis': 'Aquarius', 'SignorMontoni': 'Jailin', 'Udolpho': 'Alexiz', 'Signor': 'Sopheap', 'Du': 'Eliyah', 'Ludovico': 'Phazon', 'de': 'Londen', 'Henri': 'Chantria', 'Monsieur': 'Jasmond', 'Em': 'Codi', "D'Emery": 'Brighten', 'Shmoopers': 'Rudi', 'Bertolini': 'Kemoni', 'Verezzi': 'Rian', 'Condittieri': 'Oddie', 'Netters': 'Leverne', 'Will': 'Kam', 'Ugo': 'Izzan', 'Snow': 'Meko', 'Emmencourt': 'Danyl', 'Hunter': 'Rei', 'HunterGuy': 'Callahan', 'HunterGuys': 'Kodee', 'Smugglers': 'Baby', 'Ems': 'Deane'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Quesnel': 'Oluwaseyi', 'Montoni': 'Jerre', 'Pont': 'Riley', 'Villeforte': 'Lorenza', 'Villerois': 'Peyton', 'Foix': 'Kindred', 'Robinson.': 'Keylen', 'Orsino': 'Victoriano', 'White': 'Lian', 'Villeroi': 'Kalin', 'Motteville': 'Collen'}}