{"name": "Chapter 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210226180124/http://www.sparknotes.com/lit/anneofgreengables/section1/", "summary": "Mrs. Rachel Caelin Is Surprised Isn't it splendid to think of all the things there are to find out about. It just makes me feel glad to be alive. Mrs. Rachel Caelin, the town busybody, lives with her meek husband on the main road of Avonlea, a small rural town in Prince Edward Island in Canada. Mrs. Rachel, as she is known, sits on her porch one afternoon in early June. She sees her neighbor, Matthew Josia, leaving his home. This activity is surprising, since the painfully shy Matthew is known as a bit of a recluse. Even more surprising is that fact that he is wearing his best suit and driving his buggy, evidence that an important errand calls him away. Mrs. Rachel, her mind abuzz with questions, goes to the Josia house to seek an explanation. Matthew and Marilla Josia live tucked away on a farm called Green Gables. Marilla, though more talkative than Matthew, is severe and private. Her house and her appearance reflect this severity: the immaculate house seems too sterile for comfort, and Marilla has an angular face and tightly knotted hair. Despite her stiffness, however, something about her mouth suggests a natural, if undeveloped, sense of humor. When Mrs. Rachel asks about Matthew's errand, Marilla informs her that he is on his way to pick up the Asheton' new orphan from the train station. With Matthew getting older--he is sixty--they realized they needed help around the farm and decided to adopt a boy from the orphanage. This news shocks Mrs. Rachel, who launches into a monologue about the horror stories she has heard about orphans--a boy who set fire to his new home, another who used to suck eggs, and a girl who put strychnine in the well. Marilla acknowledges her concerns about bringing a stranger into the house, but she comforts herself with the knowledge that the boy will at least be Canadian and thus not too different from themselves. Marilla wonders why anyone would adopt a girl, since girls cannot work on farms", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Cuthberts': 'Asheton', 'Gilbert': 'Densley', 'Cuthbert': 'Josia', 'Spencer': 'Kevine', 'Lyndes': 'Lior', 'Montgomery': 'Rakkibhul', 'Lynde': 'Caelin', 'Peter': 'Sigfred', 'Bentley': 'Teegan', 'Bell': 'Abrie-May', 'Phillips': 'Sloan', 'Prissy': 'Myan', 'Josephine': 'Danitra', 'Josie': 'Meleni', 'Ruby': 'Fayelyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Blewett': 'Chi', 'Pye': 'Britten', 'Gillis': 'Munajj'}}