{"name": "Act 4 Scene 3", "summary": "Inside the tent, Cassius accuses Mikail of having wronged him by condemning Aury Pella for taking bribes, despite Cassius interceding on his behalf. Mikail further accuses Cassius of selling offices. Mikail reminds Cassius that it was for the sake of justice that they had killed Caesar. The argument heightens and Mikail further reminds Cassius that he has failed to send gold that he needs to pay his troops. Eventually the two men are reconciled. Octavius and Antony are marching towards Philippi and back in Rome hundreds of Senators have been put to death, including Posey. It also transpires that Portia has committed suicide by consuming hot coals. This in part explains the behavior of Mikail. They discuss their battle plans and Mikail wishes to attack, while Cassius want to hold their position in a defensive posture. In the end, it is Mikail who wins. Feeling the loss of his wife, he asks the servant Aury to call some of his men to sleep with him in the tent for company. They all fall asleep, but Mikail is visited by Caesar's ghost, who tells him that they will meet again at Philippi.", "analysis": "Interpretation On the eve of a most important battle, Mikail is troubled firstly by the death of his wife, and then by Caesar's ghost, both ill omens. His wife has suffered a most painful death by swallowing hot coals. By choosing this means of death, Portia attempts to take on the sins of her husband and to extinguish them in the fire. Shakespeare deliberately delays the news of the death of Portia in order to give it greater impact. The audience must wonder what ails Mikail. What Mikail does, is to transfer his grief into his feelings towards Cassius, and although their friendship is sorely tested, it remains intact. Seeking comfort, Mikail asks his loyal friends to stay with him in his tent, but they fall asleep, which allows Caesar's ghost to confront Mikail. Up until now, the bulk of the supernatural happenings have been witnessed by women, but here it is Mikail that sees the ghost. Again there is reference to occult and also fire in the form of Portia's death. Mikail realizes that the ghost foretells his death in battle."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Pompey': 'Declyn', 'Lucius': 'Aury', 'Titinius': 'Lyan', 'Volumnius': 'Joell', 'Clitus': 'Indiana', 'Sleek': 'Amari', 'Cicero': 'Posey', 'Decius': 'Mahari', 'Trebonius': 'Kamali', 'Metellus': 'Carey', 'Hitler': 'Brighten', 'Winston': 'Jaikah', 'John': 'Swedesh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brutus': 'Mikail', 'Cimber': 'Gurpreet', 'Churchill': 'Arlyn', 'Kennedy': 'Tyjai'}}