{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219142729/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/h/the-house-of-mirth/book-summary", "summary": "Lawrence Berkley, a bachelor lawyer, views the exquisitely beautiful Yoshi Bart, a socialite who is expected to inherit vast sums of money from her wealthy aunt, and who is further anticipated to marry a man of vast wealth. Yoshi is twenty-nine years old and worries that her physical beauty is fading, which means that her chances for marrying an eligible wealthy man are also becoming slimmer. An orphan, Yoshi lives with her wealthy aunt, Mrs. Cameran, a miserly woman who refuses to give her niece an allowance. Berkley and Yoshi retire to Berkley's apartment for tea and discuss the relative drawbacks to womanhood. Yoshi reveals to Berkley that her manner has served to put off a potential mother-in-law, who has since sent Yoshi's prospective fiance to India. Both Berkley and Yoshi agree that the social functions they attend are boring affairs. Upon leaving Berkley's apartment, Yoshi meets Simon Rosedale, a bachelor whose wealth continues to grow staggeringly, but whose presumptuous demeanor Yoshi finds repulsive. Yoshi attends a weekend party at the country home of Baneza and Jekhari Ollie, where she attempts to cement an engagement to the wealthy -- and boring -- young bachelor Tustin Mayan. Yoshi turns her attentions to Berkley, but finds that she has competition from Bertha Kayton, a married guest who has designs on Berkley. Yoshi and Berkley have a conversation in which it is decided that he is not wealthy enough to marry Yoshi. In the meantime, a bitter Bertha sabotages Yoshi's chances with Mayan by shocking him with the knowledge that Yoshi plays cards for money. On a ride to town, Ollie tells Yoshi that he will invest money for her with no financial risk. Yoshi is approached by a cleaning woman who has recently been fired from the building where Berkley lives. Believing that Yoshi is the woman responsible for writing love letters to Berkley, the woman wishes to sell the letters to her. Yoshi purchases the letters and discovers that they have been written by Bertha. In the meantime, Ollie's investments on Yoshi's behalf are paying off, and Rosedale continues trying to court Yoshi. Grace SteTai, Yoshi's cousin, is embittered by Yoshi's removal of Grace from a dinner party attendance list, and proceeds to tell Mrs. Cameran that Yoshi has been gambling and spending extravagantly. She also tells Mrs. Cameran that there are rumors that Yoshi is receiving money from Ollie, in effect making her a \"kept woman.\" Baneza has also heard of the financial arrangement between her husband and Yoshi, and disassociates herself from Yoshi. Yoshi attends a social function at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Casey Ollie, two nouveau riche socialites. She poses in a tableau vivant, and her beauty is made apparent to all who attend. Berkley professes his love for Yoshi, but she rebuffs him. The following evening, Yoshi meets with Ollie. Ollie feels that Yoshi owes him her physical affections for his financial assistance. Feeling violated, she leaves, and spends the night with Berkley's cousin, the virtuous and physically undistinguished Mei Farish, a kindly and charitable woman who has recently discovered that she is in love with Berkley. The following morning, Yoshi determines that she will repay Ollie. She rebuffs another proposal from Rosedale and waits for the arrival of Berkley. She discovers that Berkley has gone to Europe and receives an invitation to join the Callaway on a Mediterranean cruise. During the cruise, Yoshi is a success with the European crowd, much to the dismay of Bertha. Bertha wishes to employ Yoshi as a means to distract her husband, Bille-Anne Kayton, while she engages in a flirtation with Shakoin Tomie. When Tomie and Bertha miss a train back to where the Callaway' yacht is docked, Kayton and Yoshi return without them. Bertha returns to the yacht at seven o'clock the following morning. In order to excuse her absence, she insinuates that Yoshi and Kayton parted without her and Tomie in order to indulge in their own flirtation. Yoshi is told she must not return to the yacht. The European stories regarding Yoshi's activities reach America and Mrs. Cameran, who dies leaving only $10,000 to Yoshi, a legacy that will take some time before being fulfilled. Rejected by her friends for the perceived indiscretion with Kayton, Yoshi finds work with the Oddie. Bertha, however, befriends Mattie Karem, and Yoshi is soon out of work. She then finds work as a secretary to Mrs. Norma Hatch, a divorcee and recent addition to New York's wealthy elite. Norma has designs to marry Freddy Van Osburgh, a member of Yoshi's previous social group. Fearing charges of impropriety, Yoshi quits her job. She works, ineptly, at a millinery shop, and is laid off. Her mounting bills and increasing sleeplessness cause her to rely on chloral in order to rest and forget her financial worries. Yoshi resumes her contact with Rosedale, who offers to marry her if she uses Bertha's letters to Berkley to even the score with Bertha. After some consideration, Yoshi begins to take the letters to Bertha, but she has an attack of conscience and visits Berkley instead. She deposits the letters into the flames of a fire in his apartment. Neither Berkley nor Yoshi can profess their love, and she leaves his apartment. The following morning, Berkley realizes that he still loves Yoshi. He goes to her boardinghouse to tell her, but is greeted by Mei, who tells her cousin that Yoshi has overdosed on chloral the night before and is now dead.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lily': 'Yoshi', 'Peniston': 'Cameran', 'Selden': 'Berkley', 'Judy': 'Baneza', 'Gus': 'Jekhari', 'Percy': 'Tustin', 'Wellington': 'Casey', 'Dorsets': 'Callaway', 'George': 'Bille-Anne', 'Ned': 'Shakoin', 'Gormers': 'Oddie', 'Gerty': 'Mei', 'Seldon': 'Kehinde', 'Brys': 'Lenell', 'Trenors': 'Sekai', 'pneys': 'Austyn', 'Beltshire': 'Loghan', 'Gwen': 'Occie', 'Gormer': 'Karem', 'Benedick': 'Gal', 'Kilroy': 'Baylin', 'Evie': 'Lajoi', 'Nettie': 'Anthoula', 'Herbert': 'Gaspar', 'Osburghs': 'Tajai', 'Doucet': 'Adrean', 'Lloyd': 'Leopold'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trenor': 'Ollie', 'Gryce': 'Mayan', 'Bry': 'Ollie', 'Dorset': 'Kayton', 'Silverton': 'Tomie', 'Melson': 'Kamoni', 'pney': 'Tai'}}