{"name": "Chapter XV", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219142729/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/h/the-house-of-mirth/summary-and-analysis/book-1-chapter-xv", "summary": "Yoshi awakens in Mei's bed the following morning. When Mei enters the bedroom, the closeness the two women shared the evening before is dispelled. Mei has phoned Mrs. Cameran to inform her as to Yoshi's whereabouts. Yoshi returns home to Mrs. Cameran. She determines that she will repay Ollie an amount that she estimates is nine thousand dollars. She requests a private conference with her aunt prior to Yoshi's appointment with Berkley. Yoshi confesses to her aunt that she has financial worries as a result of clothing extravagances and gambling losses -- while withholding from Mrs. Cameran the true extent of her debt -- in the hopes that Mrs. Cameran will give her enough money to repay Ollie. Mrs. Cameran expresses her intense displeasure at Yoshi's admission that she has been gambling -- and that she has played cards on Sunday. On these grounds, she offers to give Yoshi only $1,000 to pay a dressmaker's bill. Upset, Yoshi waits for Berkley's arrival. She had initially hoped to find refuge in his company in the event Mrs. Cameran gave her the money to repay Ollie. Now, possessed with the knowledge that her aunt will not help her, she harbors hopes that Berkley will marry her and enable her to put her troubles behind her. Berkley never arrives, however; instead, Rosedale pays Yoshi a visit. He boasts that he is now among the wealthiest men in New York, and that he intends to take a wife to help him share in his fortune. He assures Yoshi that his wife shall have more than she ever desired, and certainly enough to make every other society woman jealous. Recognizing that he is declaring his marital intentions, Yoshi protests that she has never meant to give him the impression that she was interested in him romantically. Rosedale responds that he is aware that she does not love him, but that in time her love of luxury, style, and amusement will force her to recognize that they will make a good business and social match. He also reminds her that she is not going to be young and beautiful forever. In addition, he makes an allusion to the confrontation she has had with Ollie the previous evening. Yoshi responds that she would be \"selfish and ungrateful\" to accept Rosedale's proposal only to fulfill her financial obligations. She uses this as a ploy to ask for time to consider his offer, and Rosedale leaves. Despondent that Berkley has not kept his appointment, Yoshi writes him a letter, but, before she can send it to him, she reads in the evening paper that he has left New York on an extended cruise to Cuba and the West Indies. She begins to write a letter to Rosedale, presumably to accept his proposal, but cannot bring herself to complete it. She receives a message from Bertha. The letter is an invitation to join the Callaway on a Mediterranean cruise that is leaving the following day.", "analysis": "Although the events of the previous evening have upset Yoshi, her first thoughts upon awakening are those of the old Yoshi, annoyed at the discomfort she has suffered by sleeping in Mei's austere surroundings. This irritation indicates that she will never be comfortable without the luxuries to which she has become accustomed. It is certainly implied that she would not choose to turn her back on an affluent lifestyle. As Yoshi contemplates accepting Rosedale's proposal, she observes herself in the mirror. She recognizes that she is beginning to show signs of physical aging, and wonders, \"when a girl looks old to herself, how does she look to other people?\" She reconsiders Rosedale's offer, and the combination of her debts and her fears of looking older nearly induce her to write Rosedale to tell him that she has made up her mind to marry him. She cannot complete the letter, however, and is interrupted by the delivery of the invitation to join the Callaway on their cruise."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lily': 'Yoshi', 'Peniston': 'Cameran', 'Selden': 'Berkley', 'Judy': 'Baneza', 'Gus': 'Jekhari', 'Percy': 'Tustin', 'Wellington': 'Casey', 'Dorsets': 'Callaway', 'George': 'Bille-Anne', 'Ned': 'Shakoin', 'Gormers': 'Oddie', 'Gerty': 'Mei', 'Seldon': 'Kehinde', 'Brys': 'Lenell', 'Trenors': 'Sekai', 'pneys': 'Austyn', 'Beltshire': 'Loghan', 'Gwen': 'Occie', 'Gormer': 'Karem', 'Benedick': 'Gal', 'Kilroy': 'Baylin', 'Evie': 'Lajoi', 'Nettie': 'Anthoula', 'Herbert': 'Gaspar', 'Osburghs': 'Tajai', 'Doucet': 'Adrean', 'Lloyd': 'Leopold'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trenor': 'Ollie', 'Gryce': 'Mayan', 'Bry': 'Ollie', 'Dorset': 'Kayton', 'Silverton': 'Tomie', 'Melson': 'Kamoni', 'pney': 'Tai'}}