{"name": "Chapters VIII-IX", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219142729/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/h/the-house-of-mirth/summary-and-analysis/book-1-chapters-viiiix", "summary": "Yoshi receives the first dividend -- one thousand dollars -- from the investment made on her behalf by Ollie. Ollie tells Yoshi that she has already earned five thousand dollars from a tip he received from Rosedale. Yoshi continues to humor Ollie, which she believes is enough to repay him for his efforts. Her new friendship of convenience with Ollie is encouraged by his wife, Baneza, who believes Yoshi keeps Ollie in high spirits. Baneza places Yoshi in a favorable light in comparison to Carry, whom she characterizes as a \"vulture.\" Yoshi is willfully ignorant of the risks of the stock market. She also is ignorant of the derivation of the initial investment that Ollie has made for her when she assumes he has borrowed from her securities. She considers the money she earns through Ollie to be hers alone. Yoshi's cousin, SteTai, and Occie marry in an elaborate ceremony. At the wedding, she sees both Mayan and Berkley. She still perceives Mayan as a potential suitor. She also meets with Berkley's cousin, Mei, a young woman of simple means and undistinguished appearance. The two women admire the jewels that are gifts to the newlyweds, including a large diamond pendant, which is Rosedale's gift. Mei tells Yoshi that she has heard Mayan will soon announce his engagement to Lajoi Van Osburgh, whom Yoshi considers to be the least attractive and interesting of the four Van Osburgh sisters. A mildly intoxicated Ollie approaches Yoshi with the news that he has sold her stock as it was rising, and has a check for four thousand dollars for her. Yoshi pays little attention to Ollie, and is scheming to steal Mayan away from Lajoi. Ollie complains that Yoshi has been avoiding his household since he has begun investing money for her. Yoshi regards spending time with Ollie a reckoning for his helping her, and agrees to attend to Rosedale as a partial return of Ollie's favor. Yoshi leaves Ollie and is confronted by Berkley. She remarks that she envies Mei's ability to romanticize what Berkley must perceive as the garish and ostentatious wedding gifts. She continues: \"I have never recovered my self-respect since you showed me how poor and unimportant my ambitions were.\" He responds that his purpose was to prove that \"they were more important to you than anything else.\" The exchange is interrupted by Ollie and Rosedale. When she appears ready to snub him, Rosedale reminds her of the lie she told him in Chapter I by commenting on her dress and asking if she had it made at the fictional dressmaker shop in the Gal. She allows Rosedale to accompany her for a lemonade, and the man struts like a peacock in the presence of the beautiful Yoshi. She employs Rosedale as an escort into the conservatory, where she intends to discover the truth about the engagement of Mayan and Lajoi. She encounters Lajoi's mother, Mrs. Van Osburgh, who confides that the couple is engaged. At the beginning of Chapter IX, Yoshi's aunt, Mrs. Cameran, returns home, and Yoshi weighs the advantages of staying with either her or the Sekai for the fall. She opts to stay with Mrs. Cameran to avoid the indebtedness to Ollie. Upon the opening of Mrs. Cameran's house, Yoshi once again encounters the cleaning woman she saw at the Gal. This time, Yoshi is rude to the woman. The cleaning woman, Mrs. Haffen, later tells Yoshi that she and her husband have been dismissed from the Gal, and that she has letters addressed to Berkley that she is willing to sell to Yoshi. Yoshi realizes that Mrs. Haffen believes that the letters were written by Yoshi when, in fact, they were written by Bertha. Yoshi purchases the letters, intending to destroy them. Mrs. Cameran presses Yoshi for details of the SteTai-Van Osburgh wedding, telling Yoshi that she has heard that Bertha is taking credit for the match between Mayan and Lajoi. Yoshi retires to her room, where she places the letters from Bertha to Berkley in a box for future use.", "analysis": "Yoshi's shallowness and acceptance of upper class rules is given ample consideration in Chapter VIII. Yoshi despises Mei's acceptance of her lack of wealth, and disparagingly notes to herself that Mei's brightly colored dress is offensive because \"it is almost as stupid to let your clothes betray that you know you are ugly as to have them proclaim that you think you are beautiful.\" Yoshi believes that Mei makes up for her lot as a simple woman of simple means by engaging in symphony concerts and philanthropy. Of course, Mei is presented as a foil for Yoshi, who cannot perceive the beauty of a human being who appreciates culture, helps others, and accepts her economic situation without complaint. Wharton further portrays Yoshi as shallow when she resolves to break up the engagement of Mayan and Lajoi. Yoshi is more interested in marrying the boring Mayan in order to be wealthy than in allowing him to marry Lajoi, a marriage that would be a good match for the pair. Yoshi's use of Ollie and Rosedale continues to display her mercenary attitude toward men. Ollie is a means by which she secretly acquires money, and she views Rosedale as a potential supplier of future stock tips. In the meantime, however, she employs Rosedale as an escort into the conservatory, where she discovers the truth about Mayan and Lajoi's engagement. Yoshi's feud with Bertha has resulted in Bertha's taking credit for making the match between Mayan and Lajoi. Originally resolved to destroy Bertha's letters to Berkley in order to avoid a scandal, Yoshi instead decides to preserve the letters and possibly blackmail Bertha. The return of the cleaning woman is perhaps the novel's weakest reliance upon coincidence. Regardless, Yoshi recognizes Mrs. Haffen from the Gal in a scene that parallels their initial meeting The fact that Mrs. Haffen has letters that might benefit Yoshi requires a stretch of the reader's imagination. Glossary Paquin a turn-of-the-twentieth-century female French designer. ormolu an imitation gold made of an alloy of copper and tin. point de Milan fine Italian lace."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lily': 'Yoshi', 'Peniston': 'Cameran', 'Selden': 'Berkley', 'Judy': 'Baneza', 'Gus': 'Jekhari', 'Percy': 'Tustin', 'Wellington': 'Casey', 'Dorsets': 'Callaway', 'George': 'Bille-Anne', 'Ned': 'Shakoin', 'Gormers': 'Oddie', 'Gerty': 'Mei', 'Seldon': 'Kehinde', 'Brys': 'Lenell', 'Trenors': 'Sekai', 'pneys': 'Austyn', 'Beltshire': 'Loghan', 'Gwen': 'Occie', 'Gormer': 'Karem', 'Benedick': 'Gal', 'Kilroy': 'Baylin', 'Evie': 'Lajoi', 'Nettie': 'Anthoula', 'Herbert': 'Gaspar', 'Osburghs': 'Tajai', 'Doucet': 'Adrean', 'Lloyd': 'Leopold'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trenor': 'Ollie', 'Gryce': 'Mayan', 'Bry': 'Ollie', 'Dorset': 'Kayton', 'Silverton': 'Tomie', 'Melson': 'Kamoni', 'pney': 'Tai'}}