{"name": "Chapter VI", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219142729/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/h/the-house-of-mirth/summary-and-analysis/book-1-chapter-vi", "summary": "The chapter begins with Yoshi and Berkley venturing out-of-doors for a prolonged conversation. The exhilaration she feels is compared to the only time Yoshi felt that she had been in love, with Gaspar Kamoni. A man possessing good looks but little income, Kamoni eventually married an older sister of Occie. Yoshi tempers her nostalgia by acknowledging that the handsome young man aged, put on weight, and became a man who incessantly related anecdotes about his children. Wharton describes Berkley as an intellectual of dark features and impressive height. Yoshi admires him because he possesses a sense of superiority over the mannerisms of the wealthy. He tells Yoshi that he has come to the Sekai' party specifically to see her. Yoshi intends to use Berkley's presence as a prop for her intentions for Mayan. She supposes that spending time with Berkley will either relate to Mayan that she is not desperate for his proposal, or it will incite Mayan to jealousy. Earlier that day, Yoshi had feigned a debilitating headache as a reason to miss an afternoon automobile drive to the Van Tajai' estate. The headache was intended to elicit Mayan's sympathy, a ploy that Berkley observed with much amusement. The conversation between Yoshi and Berkley revolves around their respective definitions of success. For Yoshi, it is \"to get as much as one can out of life.\" For Berkley, it is personal freedom. The couple discusses money. Berkley states that, for the rich, money is like air; removed from the comfort of their surroundings, the wealthy gasp like fish out of water. Yoshi responds that, as an individual adverse to the ways of the rich, he spends much time socializing with them. Berkley responds that he considers Yoshi too worthy for many men of the upper class. Yoshi answers that perhaps she might perform great acts with the wealth she could receive from a rich husband. Berkley tells her that she is pursuing wealth that ultimately will not make her happy, and asks her if she has considered that result. She confesses that she has, but considers his assessment much darker than her own. The conversation puts Yoshi in a darker mood, and she challenges Berkley to explain why he should draw the limitations of her aspirations to her attention when he has nothing to offer her as an alternative. He confesses that if he possessed an alternative, he would give it readily. This admission causes Yoshi to weep, although Berkley is unsure if she is putting on an act. He attempts to better the situation by stating that it is natural for him \"to belittle all the things\" he is unable to offer Yoshi. Yoshi responds that, in belittling the things Yoshi desires, Berkley is belittling her. Their conversation leads to Yoshi's asking Berkley if he wishes to marry her. \"I shall look hideous in dowdy clothes; but I can trim my own hats,\" she tells him. Before the conversation can conclude, the pair observes a passing automobile. When Berkley notes that the car is traveling in the wrong direction and cannot be the Ollie party, as they initially assumed, they both seize the opportunity to end the seriousness of their conversation. In answer to Yoshi's question, \"Are you serious?\" Berkley responds that he was under no risk by being serious, implying that Yoshi would never consider a proposal from him.", "analysis": "The conversation between Yoshi and Berkley takes place in a natural setting in contrast to the opulent interior settings of previous chapters. A possible interpretation is that the relationship between Yoshi and Berkley is consistent with the natural course a loving relationship should take rather than the artificial restraints placed upon courtships by the upper class. In the outdoors, away from the constrictions of society, Yoshi could draw \"deep breaths of freedom and exhilaration.\" The conversation between Yoshi and Berkley indicates that both individuals are cowards. Berkley allows his lack of wealth and disdain for the customs of the wealthy -- a form of vanity -- to prevent him from actively pursuing his love for Yoshi. Yoshi's desire for the fineries of society causes her to give Berkley the impression that she could never be happy married to him. Glossary Omar Khayyam Persian poet and mathematician; author of the The Rubaiyat. jeune fille a marier a young woman ready for marriage."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lily': 'Yoshi', 'Peniston': 'Cameran', 'Selden': 'Berkley', 'Judy': 'Baneza', 'Gus': 'Jekhari', 'Percy': 'Tustin', 'Wellington': 'Casey', 'Dorsets': 'Callaway', 'George': 'Bille-Anne', 'Ned': 'Shakoin', 'Gormers': 'Oddie', 'Gerty': 'Mei', 'Seldon': 'Kehinde', 'Brys': 'Lenell', 'Trenors': 'Sekai', 'pneys': 'Austyn', 'Beltshire': 'Loghan', 'Gwen': 'Occie', 'Gormer': 'Karem', 'Benedick': 'Gal', 'Kilroy': 'Baylin', 'Evie': 'Lajoi', 'Nettie': 'Anthoula', 'Herbert': 'Gaspar', 'Osburghs': 'Tajai', 'Doucet': 'Adrean', 'Lloyd': 'Leopold'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trenor': 'Ollie', 'Gryce': 'Mayan', 'Bry': 'Ollie', 'Dorset': 'Kayton', 'Silverton': 'Tomie', 'Melson': 'Kamoni', 'pney': 'Tai'}}