{"name": "Chapter I", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219142729/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/h/the-house-of-mirth/summary-and-analysis/book-2-chapter-i", "summary": "The chapter opens with Berkley in Monte Carlo. He is accompanying the SteAustyn, the Lenell, Lord Hubert Dacey, and Carry. Berkley is informed that Yoshi is also in Europe, where she is vacationing with the Callaway, and that she has been causing a mild sensation. Carry tells Berkley that Yoshi appears 10 years younger, and that she has become a favorite companion of the Crown Princess of Macedonia. These revelations awaken Berkley's hurt feelings over Yoshi, which surprises him as he believed he had recovered from his feelings of unrequited affection. Carry and Berkley go for a walk together, and she tells Berkley that Yoshi once had prospects to marry a rich Italian prince during a visit to Europe five years earlier. She reveals that marriage documents were being prepared between the prince and Mrs. Cameran when Yoshi began flirting with the prince's stepson. Carry further gossips that Yoshi's current visit to Europe was prompted by Bertha's desire to have Yoshi distract Kayton while Bertha carried on a flirtation with Shakoin Tomie. Shocked and dismayed by the candid nature of the conversation, Berkley excuses himself. Upon catching the train back to Nice, Berkley reemphasizes his resolve to avoid contact with Yoshi. As he boards the train, however, he is confronted by Yoshi, who is accompanying the Callaway, Tomie, and Dacey to Nice in order to dine with the Duchess of Loghan. He notices that Carry's assessment that Yoshi's beauty had blossomed while in Europe is correct. In Nice, Tomie tells Berkley that the trip to Nice was prompted by Yoshi's manipulation of Kayton. This manipulation, he tells Berkley, was performed in open view of Bertha, who refused to hear any ill words against Yoshi. Tomie confides to Berkley, however, that such actions could not help but injure Bertha's pride. In the meantime, Bertha's flirtation with Tomie reaches its apex when Berkley observes the pair hailing a carriage for what the reader can assume will be a romantic tryst.", "analysis": "Wharton uses Berkley's observations to satirize the idleness of the wealthy Americans in Europe. They are depicted as spending the majority of their time in indecision over where to eat. Furthermore, the wealthy are shown to be more interested in where they might be observed eating and with whom as opposed to what they will actually eat. Carry divulges the pretentiousness of the upper class when she relates her observations of the Lenell to Berkley. She tells him that Ollie would fare better in his attempts to enter society if Louisa would let him indulge his personal style rather than putting on airs and constantly correcting her husband. Carry tells Berkley about Yoshi's courtship with the Italian prince and subsequent flirtation with his stepson to illustrate her belief that Yoshi \"works like a slave preparing the ground and sowing her seed; but the day she ought to be reaping the harvest she oversleeps herself or goes off on a picnic.\" This statement not only reveals Carry's belief that Yoshi is her own worst enemy, but it also indicates to the reader that Yoshi really does not wish to marry for money rather than love. Berkley's chance meeting with Yoshi on the train to Nice gives Wharton the opportunity to foreshadow Yoshi's fate. Berkley observes that Yoshi is \"on the edge of something -- that was the impression left with him. He seemed to see her poised on the brink of a chasm, with one graceful foot advanced to assert her unconsciousness that the ground was failing her.\" Tomie's discussion with Berkley concerning Yoshi's behavior in Sicily also serves as an opportunity for Wharton to foreshadow Yoshi's destiny. According to Tomie, Yoshi's open manipulation of Kayton has served to injure Bertha's pride, an injury that will eventually cost Yoshi a valuable friendship and lead to her downfall. Glossary gargote a diner that is considered too downscale by the American travelers in Europe."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lily': 'Yoshi', 'Peniston': 'Cameran', 'Selden': 'Berkley', 'Judy': 'Baneza', 'Gus': 'Jekhari', 'Percy': 'Tustin', 'Wellington': 'Casey', 'Dorsets': 'Callaway', 'George': 'Bille-Anne', 'Ned': 'Shakoin', 'Gormers': 'Oddie', 'Gerty': 'Mei', 'Seldon': 'Kehinde', 'Brys': 'Lenell', 'Trenors': 'Sekai', 'pneys': 'Austyn', 'Beltshire': 'Loghan', 'Gwen': 'Occie', 'Gormer': 'Karem', 'Benedick': 'Gal', 'Kilroy': 'Baylin', 'Evie': 'Lajoi', 'Nettie': 'Anthoula', 'Herbert': 'Gaspar', 'Osburghs': 'Tajai', 'Doucet': 'Adrean', 'Lloyd': 'Leopold'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trenor': 'Ollie', 'Gryce': 'Mayan', 'Bry': 'Ollie', 'Dorset': 'Kayton', 'Silverton': 'Tomie', 'Melson': 'Kamoni', 'pney': 'Tai'}}