{"name": "Chapters IX-X", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219142729/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/h/the-house-of-mirth/summary-and-analysis/book-2-chapters-ixx", "summary": "Yoshi is now working as secretary to the multiply divorced and wealthy socialite Mrs. Hatch at the Emporium Hotel. Hatch is the head of her social group, which includes Mr. Melville Stancy, Tomie, and Freddy Van Osburgh. Berkley visits Yoshi at the Emporium; he is uneasy and makes inappropriately defensive comments. He stridently offers to take Yoshi away from Mrs. Hatch and the Emporium. He tells her to room with Mei until Yoshi's inheritance is paid. Yoshi tells Berkley that she owes every penny of her inheritance. Berkley is firm in recommending that Yoshi depart Mrs. Hatch's employ, but this firmness stiffens Yoshi's determination to stay. In Chapter X, Mei recommends millinery work to Yoshi -- a position for which she seems suited as she has remarked that she can trim hats. Also, wanting to help Yoshi, Carry approaches Baneza. Baneza reacts violently, which baffles Carry. Carry gets Yoshi work at Mme. Regina millinery shop, but Yoshi refuses to work on the sale floor modeling hats for fear of being seen by her former social circle; she instead goes to work constructing the hats. She is chastised by the forewoman, Miss Haines, for crookedly sewing spangles on a hat, but is comforted by the kindliness of Miss Baylin, a co-worker. Yoshi has begun to use Mrs. Hatch's prescription for chloral in order to sleep. The pharmacist warns her not to increase the dosage. While filling the prescription, she encounters Rosedale. Rosedale and Yoshi go for tea, and Yoshi tells Rosedale her reasons for leaving the employ of Mrs. Hatch: She did not want to be perceived as assisting Mrs. Hatch's romantic designs on the wealthy Van Osburgh. Because Rosedale admits he has heard rumors of Yoshi's involvement, Yoshi expresses that she might as well have stayed employed with Mrs. Hatch. Yoshi tells Rosedale that she is working for Mme. Regina, a revelation that shocks the wealthy financier. She also tells him that she owes her entire legacy to Ollie and others. Before he can offer to help her, Yoshi excuses herself from the table. Rosedale walks her back to her boarding room and asks to see her again. Yoshi graciously agrees. Alone in her room, Yoshi contemplates using her inheritance from Mrs. Cameran to set up her own millinery establishment. From the proceeds, she reasons, she can pay back Ollie. Such a plan, however, she knows will take years. She blames Bertha for her misfortune, and wonders how long she can continue to resist the temptation to use the letters against her. She drugs herself and falls into a deep sleep.", "analysis": "Wharton casts her satire toward the newly rich denizens of the Emporium Hotel. Wharton writes that Mrs. Hatch's daily life was a \"jumble of futile activities\" that, to Yoshi, has no rhyme or reason. Because of Mrs. Hatch's unfamiliarity with the manners and customs of the New York social elite, Yoshi underestimates her as ignorant of social convention. In fact, Mrs. Hatch will eventually turn on Yoshi in much the same fashion as Bertha. The narrator views the meeting between Berkley and Yoshi as a lost opportunity for both characters. Had either of them risen above their social training to express their feelings, the narrator believes their differences could be put aside. Berkley also displays his blinkered and superficial view of the world when he castigates Yoshi for working for Mrs. Hatch, which he calls \"unconsciously placed in a false position.\" Wharton uses Yoshi's resolve to stay with Mrs. Hatch to display Yoshi's recognition of the hypocrisy of a social class that exiles its own but presumes to tell the exiled what they must do afterward. Berkley's conversation with Yoshi has served to do more harm than good in that his approach caused Yoshi to stiffen her resolve rather than see the wisdom of his message. The narrator states that Yoshi stayed in the employ of Mrs. Hatch several weeks beyond the time she should have left simply as a resistance to Berkley's advice. However, Yoshi's attitudes toward the wealthy social class are becoming drastically altered, which she reveals when she tells Rosedale that she feels Van Osburgh \"is not in the least too good for\" Mrs. Hatch. Recognizing that her decision to quit the job was based more on her fear of societal opinion than on more practical financial concerns, Yoshi realizes that there was no real need to leave Mrs. Hatch."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lily': 'Yoshi', 'Peniston': 'Cameran', 'Selden': 'Berkley', 'Judy': 'Baneza', 'Gus': 'Jekhari', 'Percy': 'Tustin', 'Wellington': 'Casey', 'Dorsets': 'Callaway', 'George': 'Bille-Anne', 'Ned': 'Shakoin', 'Gormers': 'Oddie', 'Gerty': 'Mei', 'Seldon': 'Kehinde', 'Brys': 'Lenell', 'Trenors': 'Sekai', 'pneys': 'Austyn', 'Beltshire': 'Loghan', 'Gwen': 'Occie', 'Gormer': 'Karem', 'Benedick': 'Gal', 'Kilroy': 'Baylin', 'Evie': 'Lajoi', 'Nettie': 'Anthoula', 'Herbert': 'Gaspar', 'Osburghs': 'Tajai', 'Doucet': 'Adrean', 'Lloyd': 'Leopold'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trenor': 'Ollie', 'Gryce': 'Mayan', 'Bry': 'Ollie', 'Dorset': 'Kayton', 'Silverton': 'Tomie', 'Melson': 'Kamoni', 'pney': 'Tai'}}