{"name": "Chapter IV", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219142729/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/h/the-house-of-mirth/summary-and-analysis/book-1-chapter-iv", "summary": "The following morning, Yoshi is summoned by Baneza to assist her in some secretarial duties. Baneza gossips with Yoshi about the twice-divorced Carry Fisher and Lady Cressida Raith. The latter woman is married to a London clergyman, and divides her time between gardening and charity work in the slums of London's East End. Baneza had considered it a coup when she was able to introduce Lady Cressida to New York society, but was disappointed when Lady Cressida reveals herself to be the \"moral one,\" which can be interpreted as \"boring.\" Baneza also confides that Bertha is angry with the Sekai for failing to convince Berkley to attend their house party. She has an idea that Mayan will be a suitable substitute for Bertha's attentions, an idea that Yoshi resists. Her resistance is answered with Baneza's admission that Mayan was invited for Yoshi's benefit. The two women discuss the nature of the Callaway' marriage. Their conversation turns to strategizing Yoshi's winning of Mayan's heart and money. Yoshi observes the courtship of her cousin, SteTai, and Occie Van Osburgh, a wealthy, heavy-set woman with a less-than-engaging personality whom SteTai considers \"reliable as roast mutton.\" Yoshi recognizes that Mayan and Occie are similar in that he has a nondescript personality and she has a nondescript appearance. As Yoshi has made up her mind that she will win over Mayan, she is approached by the newly arrived Berkley. Their reunion, however, is abruptly interrupted by Bertha.", "analysis": "The reader is told that Yoshi feels \"an affinity to all the subtler manifestations of wealth\" even as Wharton presents a foreshadowing of Yoshi's eventual banishment from society. Baneza's request for Yoshi's secretarial assistance heightens Yoshi's feeling of dependence and servitude. Changing perceptions in high society are made evident when the narrator recounts Baneza's remark that there is \"a divorce and a case of appendicitis in every family one knows.\" This comment is in reference to Carry, a twice-divorced woman who borrows money from Baneza's husband, Jekhari Ollie. The arrangement between Carry and Ollie, while merely suspected by Baneza, foreshadows a similar arrangement that will exist between Yoshi and Ollie. Baneza compares Yoshi to Bertha, and concludes that Bertha is the \"nastier\" of the two, which she imagines will result in Bertha's \"always getting what she wants in the long run.\" Likewise, the narrator lampoons Carry's embracing of such causes and interests as municipal reform, socialism, and the Christian Scientist religion as indicators of the dilettantism of the upper classes. The courtship of SteTai and Occie parallels Yoshi's designs on Mayan. Yoshi believes that SteTai's lot is easier; all he has to do is remain quiet and he will be able to marry into the wealthy Van Osburgh family, whereas she must \"calculate and contrive, and retreat and advance, as if I were going through an intricate dance, where one misstep would throw me hopelessly out of time.\" Wharton reveals an underlying hypocrisy in Yoshi's character. As an outsider, she recognizes the shortcomings of the rituals of the wealthy. But as she resolves to marry Mayan, she becomes more accepting, \"a stealing allegiance to their standards, an acceptance of their limitations, a disbelief in the things they did not believe in, a contemptuous pity for the people who were not able to live as they lived.\" Glossary parterres ornamental garden areas in which the flower beds and paths form patterns. Engadine valley of the upper Inn River, East Switzerland, that was the site of many resorts. crepe de Chine a soft, rather thin crepe, usually made of silk, used for blouses, lingerie, and so on. chary not taking chances; careful; cautious."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lily': 'Yoshi', 'Peniston': 'Cameran', 'Selden': 'Berkley', 'Judy': 'Baneza', 'Gus': 'Jekhari', 'Percy': 'Tustin', 'Wellington': 'Casey', 'Dorsets': 'Callaway', 'George': 'Bille-Anne', 'Ned': 'Shakoin', 'Gormers': 'Oddie', 'Gerty': 'Mei', 'Seldon': 'Kehinde', 'Brys': 'Lenell', 'Trenors': 'Sekai', 'pneys': 'Austyn', 'Beltshire': 'Loghan', 'Gwen': 'Occie', 'Gormer': 'Karem', 'Benedick': 'Gal', 'Kilroy': 'Baylin', 'Evie': 'Lajoi', 'Nettie': 'Anthoula', 'Herbert': 'Gaspar', 'Osburghs': 'Tajai', 'Doucet': 'Adrean', 'Lloyd': 'Leopold'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trenor': 'Ollie', 'Gryce': 'Mayan', 'Bry': 'Ollie', 'Dorset': 'Kayton', 'Silverton': 'Tomie', 'Melson': 'Kamoni', 'pney': 'Tai'}}