{"name": "Chapters XI-XII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219142729/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/h/the-house-of-mirth/summary-and-analysis/book-1-chapters-xixii", "summary": "Wall Street hits a slump during the holiday season, and all investors, excepting Rosedale and Casey Ollie, suffer financial losses. Rosedale is rumored to have doubled his fortune, thus smoothing his path to acceptance in New York society. He has been friendly with Carry Fisher, who has been beneficial in introducing him to influential persons and to social customs. He desires, however, a more individualized woman in his life and has set his cap in Yoshi Bart's direction. The narrator recounts a holiday party thrown by Mrs. Cameran to welcome returning newlyweds Jack and Occie SteTai. Mrs. Cameran's cousin, Grace SteTai, had thought herself invited to the dinner, but discovered she had been removed from the guest list. She suspects that Yoshi is responsible for the slight, and the relationship between the two women becomes strained. Seizing an opportunity to revenge her slight, Grace tells Mrs. Cameran about the rumors that are circulating about Yoshi and Ollie. Grace tells Mrs. Cameran that people are talking about an estrangement between Yoshi and Baneza, a result of a flirtation between the younger woman and Ollie. Grace continues that people have been saying that Ollie is paying Yoshi's bills, including her gambling debts. This statement reveals to Mrs. Cameran that Yoshi is playing cards for money, an activity unheard of in Mrs. Cameran's limited purview. To further her point, Grace tells Mrs. Cameran that it was Yoshi's gambling that frightened Mayan away. Grace also informs Mrs. Cameran that it is rumored that Yoshi has been seen with Kayton, another married man. She recounts that Lajoi had seen several expensive items of apparel that were being sent to Yoshi, indicating that Yoshi is spending extravagantly and beyond her limited means. As Chapter XII opens, Yoshi has ingratiated herself with the Callaway in the belief that mending fences with Bertha allows her to find \"a subtler pleasure in making use of antagonist than in confounding him.\" Yoshi spends much of her time humoring Kayton, an activity far simpler than keeping the increasingly difficult Ollie at bay. Ollie's fortunes were negatively impacted by the stock market crash. Yoshi suspects that the rumors about her flirtation with Ollie may have gotten back to Baneza, which may explain the woman's suddenly cold behavior toward her. The Lenell' newly acquired wealth prompts them to throw a large party at their estate with the assistance of Yoshi and Carry Fisher. Attending the party are Berkley and Mei, both of whom were invited by Yoshi. Mei confides to Berkley that Yoshi has donated three hundred dollars to Mei's philanthropy, her Girls Club, and has convinced the other society women to contribute large amounts as well. The party features a tableau vivant in which volunteers re-create famous scenes of art or history. Yoshi is featured as the subject of Sir Joshua Reynolds' Mrs. Leopold, a depiction of such beauty that it elicits gasps of appreciation from the audience. The painting is known for displaying the voluptuous form of its subject in a transparent gauze gown while she carves her lover's name into a tree. Berkley's admiration for Yoshi's portrait prompts him to think \"for the first time he seemed to see before him the real Yoshi Bart, divested of the trivialities of her little world, and catching for a moment a note of that eternal harmony of which her beauty was a part.\" While some in the audience are scandalized by the exposure of Yoshi's form, Berkley is mesmerized. He looks forward to speaking with her for the first time after intentionally avoiding her since the SteAustyn' wedding. The two walk outside, and Berkley professes his love to her. The couple kisses, and Yoshi tells Berkley to love her \"but don't tell me so.\" She leaves him alone. Berkley leaves the party, but not until he hears Ollie and Shakoin Van Alstyne discussing Yoshi's attractiveness.", "analysis": "Wharton makes light of the cyclical nature of the financial markets by comparing Wall Street to playing Cinderella. Rosedale's nouveau-riche status is emphasized by his purchasing the estate of a family ruined by the stock market crash. The narrator further uses Rosedale's Jewish heritage to disparage him: \"The instincts of his race fitted him to suffer rebuffs and put up with delays.\" Mrs. Cameran is parodied as a slave to social custom when the reader learns that the veracity of Grace's accusations are not as important as the fact that the accusations are being made in the first place: \"It was horrible for a young girl to let herself be talked about; however unfounded the charges against her, she must be to blame for their having been made.\" In such a closed culture, all individuals are guilty until proven otherwise. The tableau vivant presented by Yoshi reveals her as a truly beautiful woman, capable of enchanting most men. When Berkley approaches Yoshi following the display, she feels \"the quicker beat of life that his nearness always produced . . .  the moment it seemed to her that it was for him only she cared to be beautiful.\" Her love for Berkley, however, does not fit her designs for herself, and she leaves him after their kiss. Ollie delivers the last lines of Chapter XII. First, he complains that Yoshi's tableau was too revealing of her figure, and, second, he insults the nouveau riche hosts of the party: \"My wife was dead right to stay away: she says life's too short to spend it in breaking in new people.\" Glossary Girls Club a social and/or exercise club for young, single female laborors. tableau vivant a parlor game in which a participant attempts to replicate a well-known piece of art, history, or literary scene. Veronese Paolo Veronese , an Italian decorative painter famous for his ceiling painting of such scenes as the Last Supper."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lily': 'Yoshi', 'Peniston': 'Cameran', 'Selden': 'Berkley', 'Judy': 'Baneza', 'Gus': 'Jekhari', 'Percy': 'Tustin', 'Wellington': 'Casey', 'Dorsets': 'Callaway', 'George': 'Bille-Anne', 'Ned': 'Shakoin', 'Gormers': 'Oddie', 'Gerty': 'Mei', 'Seldon': 'Kehinde', 'Brys': 'Lenell', 'Trenors': 'Sekai', 'pneys': 'Austyn', 'Beltshire': 'Loghan', 'Gwen': 'Occie', 'Gormer': 'Karem', 'Benedick': 'Gal', 'Kilroy': 'Baylin', 'Evie': 'Lajoi', 'Nettie': 'Anthoula', 'Herbert': 'Gaspar', 'Osburghs': 'Tajai', 'Doucet': 'Adrean', 'Lloyd': 'Leopold'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trenor': 'Ollie', 'Gryce': 'Mayan', 'Bry': 'Ollie', 'Dorset': 'Kayton', 'Silverton': 'Tomie', 'Melson': 'Kamoni', 'pney': 'Tai'}}