{"name": "Chapter XIV", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219142729/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/h/the-house-of-mirth/summary-and-analysis/book-1-chapter-xiv", "summary": "The chapter begins in Mei's apartment where Mei has spent the night dreaming after realizing that she has fallen in love with Berkley. The narrator explains Berkley's upbringing. His parents' lack of wealth was balanced by their happiness with each other. Consequently, Berkley has learned to appreciate a simple lifestyle and to disdain the accumulation of material possessions as \"aimless profusion.\" After his encounter with Yoshi the previous evening, Berkley is certain that he is in love with her and that she wishes him to propose. Berkley returns from Albany to New York City, where he goes to his club. There, Ollie entreats Berkley to eat supper with him, which. Berkley refuses. He receives Yoshi's note regarding the following day's meeting and is invigorated, assuming that Yoshi will accept his proposal. Berkley visits Mei for dinner. The two discuss Yoshi until Mei surmises that Berkley is in love with Yoshi. Although heartbroken, Mei does not reveal her feelings. She tells Kehinde that Yoshi was to dine at Carry's home, and Berkley excuses himself to see Yoshi there. When he arrives at Carry's house, Berkley is told that Yoshi has already left. A guest says that he heard Yoshi tell the hansom driver to take her to the Ollie residence, even though it is well known that Baneza is away and Ollie is alone at their town house. Berkley leaves Carry's party and is joined by Shakoin Van Alstyne in his walk down the street. As they near the Ollie residence, the pair observes Yoshi leaving the house and Ollie standing in the open doorway. Van Alstyne swears Berkley to secrecy, explaining that \"appearances are deceptive.\" Mei blames Yoshi for stealing Berkley's affections from her, and for possibly the first time in her life, she allows herself to feel hate. Following her confrontation with Ollie, Yoshi arrives unannounced at Mei's apartment. Although Mei's first inclination is revulsion toward Yoshi, she receives her tenderly when she realizes that Yoshi is terribly upset. Yoshi is hysterical, proclaiming herself to be bad. Mei tries to reconstruct Yoshi's evening to discover what is troubling her. She recounts that she knows Yoshi had dinner at Carry's home and that Berkley went there to find her. The mention of Berkley's name prompts Yoshi to ask Mei if she thinks her cousin can ever again think highly enough of Yoshi to help her. Mei struggles with the question but responds that she is certain Berkley will help Yoshi.", "analysis": "More than any other chapter in The House of Mirth, Chapter XIV reveals that the novel was written in a serial format. This style is evidenced by the nonlinear presentation of the chapter, in which Wharton backs up time in order to fill the reader in on the thoughts and feelings of Mei and Berkley as they evolve after the Lenell' dinner party. The reader can then understand what is happening to Berkley and Mei prior to and during Yoshi's fateful visit with Ollie. Mei previously had enjoyed life and romance only secondhand. Her newfound love for Berkley and her charitable disposition prompt her to share her good fortune with others. Mei believes that her love for Berkley is reciprocal because of his frequent visits, and that the two have attained a higher degree of sympathy through their mutual affection for Yoshi. Mei's drawing Yoshi into her charitable work at the Girls Club, and Yoshi's participation, serves as a foreshadowing of Yoshi's future economic plight. The narrator regards Yoshi as learning to view the economically disadvantaged as individuals rather than en masse. The narrator uses Van Alstyne to point out the values of old-money New York socialites in two passages. In the first, he sums up the social values of the day regarding unmarried attractive women: \"When a girl's as good-looking as that  she'd better marry; then no questions are asked. In our imperfectly organized society there is no provision as yet for the young woman who claims privileges of marriage without assuming its obligations.\" The second instance occurs when Van Alstyne accompanies Berkley after leaving Carry's house. He points out the differences of architecture between old money, like the Sekai' home, and new money, like the Lenell' estate. He disparages the ostentatious nature of the Lenell' home and compliments the Sekai' more austere Corinthian style."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lily': 'Yoshi', 'Peniston': 'Cameran', 'Selden': 'Berkley', 'Judy': 'Baneza', 'Gus': 'Jekhari', 'Percy': 'Tustin', 'Wellington': 'Casey', 'Dorsets': 'Callaway', 'George': 'Bille-Anne', 'Ned': 'Shakoin', 'Gormers': 'Oddie', 'Gerty': 'Mei', 'Seldon': 'Kehinde', 'Brys': 'Lenell', 'Trenors': 'Sekai', 'pneys': 'Austyn', 'Beltshire': 'Loghan', 'Gwen': 'Occie', 'Gormer': 'Karem', 'Benedick': 'Gal', 'Kilroy': 'Baylin', 'Evie': 'Lajoi', 'Nettie': 'Anthoula', 'Herbert': 'Gaspar', 'Osburghs': 'Tajai', 'Doucet': 'Adrean', 'Lloyd': 'Leopold'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trenor': 'Ollie', 'Gryce': 'Mayan', 'Bry': 'Ollie', 'Dorset': 'Kayton', 'Silverton': 'Tomie', 'Melson': 'Kamoni', 'pney': 'Tai'}}