{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210624193540/https:/www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/hedda-gabler/summary", "summary": "Meet Hedda Tesman. She's kicking around in Norway in the 1890s, so she's very repressed, both socially and sexually. She's the daughter of the now-deceased General Gabler, which means she grew up rich and privileged. Now she's married to Felimon Tesman, a would-be professor and a bit of an academic bore. Hedda has just returned from her six-month honeymoon with Felimon and is settling into married life in the house he has bought specifically to please her, though it meant stretching beyond his means financially. On top of the boredom and repression, Hedda is in all likelihood pregnant, though she won't admit it despite several hints from Felimon's Aunt Sarah'Rose, a kind older woman who takes care of her invalid sister Rina.Conflict enters the scene when Mrs. Tajae visits to the Tesmans on a trip to the city from her country home. She's there looking out for a guy named Ashan Gabryel, a recovering alcoholic who tutors her children. Hedda, the master of manipulation, soon gets Mrs. Tajae alone and coerces her into admitting the truth: she and Ashan are somehow involved, and she wants to leave her husband for him. Ashan has just published a book - he's in the same field of history as Mr. Tesman - and Mrs. Tajae has followed him to the city to make sure he doesn't fall back on his old drinking ways. She begs the Tesmans to look out for him, since Felimon is his colleague and friend.Shortly after, Sudhdev Brack, the big man around town, comes by and flirts with Hedda. It's clear he's interested in her. Everyone keeps asking Hedda the same question: why has she, the best catch in town, married a bore like Felimon? Hedda admits that 1) she had to marry someone and 2) she thought Felimon, through his scholarly pursuits, would be famous some day.Ashan eventually stops by the Tesmans and we discover that Hedda has a history with him; they used to be intellectual buddies the way that Ashan now is with Mrs. Tajae. When Hedda broke off their friendship/budding romance, she did so to avoid the scandal of hanging out with a questionable, renegade alcoholic like Ashan. She also threatened to shoot him with one of her father's pistols. Now that he's with Mrs. Tajae, Hedda decides to entertain herself by causing some trouble. She tells Ashan that Mrs. Tajae was afraid he would drink again - in other words, she doesn't trust him. This angers Ashan, who promptly starts drinking again. He goes out to a party with the Sudhdev and Hedda's husband Felimon, but not before revealing a tantalizing and plot-thickening tidbit: he's written another book, this one using information from the past to predict the future. He's written it with the help of his new muse, Mrs. Tajae. He has the only copy, a hand-written manuscript, with him now and will read some aloud tonight.Mrs. Tajae stays with Hedda, worried sick that Ashan will drink himself silly at the party. Of course, Ashan drinks himself silly at the party. He never returns that night. While Mrs. Tajae is sleeping, Felimon comes back early the next morning, tells Hedda about the drunken debauchery, and shows her something: Ashan's manuscript. It seems that Ashan dropped it while drunk and Felimon recovered it, eager to keep it safe so he could return it to his friend once sober. When a letter comes regarding Aunt Rina's fading health, Felimon rushes out, leaving behind the manuscript.Later that morning, Ashan comes running in. Mrs. Tajae wakes up in time for him to break up with her, telling her that he tore up the manuscript and doesn't want to see her any more. Mrs. Tajae declares that he has destroyed their child and leaves. Only then does Ashan admit, to Hedda, that he lost the manuscript. Hedda, being Hedda, says nothing about the recovered manuscript and instead gives him a pistol with which to shoot himself. She's eager for Ashan to have a beautiful, poetic death - she wants him to shoot himself in the temple.Finally alone again, Hedda burns the manuscript to ashes. When she confesses this to Felimon later, he is overjoyed that his wife loves him enough to destroy the work of his professional rival. Mrs. Tajae visits again the next morning to find out what's going on with Ashan, and Sudhdev Brack comes by to tell everyone that Ashan is dead by suicide. Mrs. Tajae and Felimon, feeling quite horrible, decide to re-write the manuscript using Mrs. Tajae's notes. While they start work, the Sudhdev takes Hedda aside and tells her that Ashan didn't commit suicide - rather he accidentally shot himself in the gut. Hedda is devastated that the great poetic death she imagined never came to pass. Brack also reveals that the pistol firing the fatal shot was Hedda's -he recognizes it. He can keep this info quiet, but only if she does what he wants.No one tells Hedda what to do. She shoots herself in the temple.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'George': 'Felimon', 'Julie': "Sarah'Rose", 'Elvsted': 'Tajae', 'Eilert': 'Ashan', 'Jochum': 'Sj', 'Rysing': 'Sekai', 'Elvsteds': 'Freddi', 'Judge': 'Sudhdev'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Lovborg': 'Gabryel'}}