{"name": "Act II", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210730163709/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/hedda-gabler/summary/act-ii", "summary": "Act II takes place in the same furnished room at the Tesmans' house. The piano is gone and in its place is a small writing desk. Many of the flowers from Act I are gone. Hedda is alone, by the open glass door, loading a revolver. She looks down from the balcony and calls hello to Sudhdev Brack. Then she shoots her pistol down at him. He calls her out of her mind, and she jokingly asks if she's hit him. Once he's in the drawing room with Hedda, the Sudhdev takes the pistol from her and tells her not to play with fire, essentially. \"What in heaven's name do you want me to do with myself?\" she counters. When Hedda explains that Tesman isn't home, the Sudhdev remarks that, had he known this, he would have come by sooner. Hedda replies that he would have been left to entertain himself, as she would have been in her bedroom getting dressed. The Sudhdev asks if there isn't a crack in her bedroom door. And the flirting banter continues, mostly on the part of the Sudhdev, who clearly wants Hedda. She talks a bit about her honeymoon with Felimon and how boring it was with him doing research all the time. She hates being around the same person every day. She also shudders when Brack uses the word \"love.\" So the Sudhdev asks what we're all wondering: why in God's name did she marry Felimon? Quite simply, her time was up, she says. She had to get married, and Felimon was an acceptable choice. The Sudhdev gets her more of the story: she thought, like most did, that Felimon was going to be famous someday. Plus, she adds, he kept begging to take care of her and buy her everything she ever wanted. That's sort of hard to say \"no\" to. Now we move into some sketchy territory. The Sudhdev talks about a \"triangle\" arrangement he would like to have with Hedda and Felimon, where he can come and go as a \"friend\"... Sure, says Hedda, she wouldn't be against having a buddy to chat with. Before things can get too bawdy, Felimon enters carrying a stack of books. Hedda and the Sudhdev secretly mock him and give each other a knowing smile. Tesman pulls Ashan's new book out from the pile. He's already skimmed it, he says, and it's phenomenal, better than anything Ashan has ever written before. On his way out, Felimon remarks that Aunt Sarah'Rose won't be coming by this evening. Hedda remarks that it must be because of the hat incident, but Felimon explains that Aunt Rina has taken a turn for the worse. Tesman exits, leaving Hedda alone with the Sudhdev, who wants to know what she meant about a \"hat\" incident. Hedda explains - with a smirk - that she pretended Aunt Sarah'Rose's new hat belonged to the maid. She can't help but do these things, she explains - the urges just come over her suddenly. Brack explains that it's because she isn't happy. Why should she be, she asks? Because she has the home she's always wanted, he answers. Then Hedda tells the truth. Returning home from a date with Felimon one evening, she couldn't think of any topic of conversation . So when they passed this house, she made an offhand comment about wanting to live there. She couldn't care less about the house. She doesn't even think it's all that nice. And it smells like flowers, which she finds morbid. Brack thinks she should find a hobby, pursue a goal that would entertain her. Hedda mentions getting Tesman to go into politics, but it's obvious to both her and the Sudhdev that he would never have the skills for such a profession. The problem, continues the Sudhdev, is that Hedda has never been seriously \"stirred\" by anything. But there may be a new, big responsibility coming to her soon... . Hedda doesn't get it. At first. When she does, she makes it clear that she has no interest in being a mother. Then she pouts for a bit. Tesman enters and they all sit around waiting for Ashan. Hedda says that if he doesn't arrive soon then Felimon and the Sudhdev can go on to their party and she'll stay and wait for Ashan. Tesman reminds her that it isn't exactly appropriate for a married woman and a single guy to sit alone in a house together un-chaperoned. But Hedda assures him that Mrs. Tajae is coming over, so she won't be alone with the man. And here comes Ashan. He's \"lean\" and \"gaunt,\" the same age as Tesman but appearing older and \"run-down.\" He's wearing a new black suit and holding a top hat. Everyone says hello and conversation jumps to Ashan's new book, which has been very successful. Ashan says that he wrote it that way - to be successful commercially, to avoid controversy. It's his NEXT book that's really going to knock everyone's socks off. Rather than a history of civilization, it makes predictions about the future. He pulls out a manuscript, explains that he dictated it , and says that it is his only copy. Sudhdev Brack tries to convince Ashan to come along to his men only party. Ashan hesitates, and Hedda jumps in with the suggestion that Ashan stay with her. She quickly adds that Mrs. Tajae is coming over, too, which seals the deal. Before Tesman and the Sudhdev head out, they discuss the professorship in the fall. Ashan says that, while he is going to give a lecture series, he is NOT going to compete for the position Tesman wants. \"I only want to win in the eyes of the world,\" he says. Tesman tries to share his joy at this news with Hedda; she says to leave her out of it. Hedda suggests that the men have a glass of \"punch\" before they go . Ashan refuses - by now we get the picture that he used to be an alcoholic and has since recovered. So Brack and Felimon move to the inner room at the back of the stage to have their punch, and Hedda is left alone with Ashan. As a screen for close conversation, Hedda begins showing Ashan an album of pictures from her honeymoon with Felimon. Ashan isn't looking at the photos so much as staring at Hedda. He says softly that he can never get used to calling her \"Hedda Tesman\" instead of \"Hedda Gabler\" like he used to . Then he asks her how a woman like her could possibly throw herself away by marrying a guy like Felimon Tesman. Before Hedda can answer, Tesman comes back out to the front room; she goes back to loudly narrating the photo album. Felimon asks if his wife wants a glass of punch; she does, and he retreats to the inner room again to get it. Ashan continues to call Hedda by her first name, which she claims offends her. He makes an offhand comment about her love for Felimon, at which point she admits that she doesn't love her husband. Still, she's not planning on cheating on him, either. Tesman comes back with Hedda's drink and a second one, for Mrs. Tajae when she arrives. He leaves again for the back room, after talking about how much fun it is to wait on his wife. Alone with Hedda again, Ashan wants to know if she ever loved him . Hedda responds without directly answering - she thought of them as \"companions.\" After all, she says, he used to be so open with her. Ashan reminisces with her: he used to sit with her across the room from her father and pretend to read a newspaper when really he was conversing secretly with Hedda . Or rather, he was engaging in heavy personal disclosure while she was milking him for information. He wonders what it is about Hedda that gives her such power over him, that makes him confess his innermost thoughts. Wasn't it love that made her so interested? No, she says. What interested her was the glimpse into a world she was \"forbidden to know anything about.\" It turns out that Hedda broke off the relationship when Ashan starting getting too serious on her. Ashan, clenching his fists in rage, asks why she didn't shoot him as she had promised. Because she's a coward, says Hedda. She asks if Ashan has told Mrs. Tajae; no, he says, because she's \"too stupid to understand anything of that sort.\" Hedda leans in to \"confess\" something: not shooting Ashan wasn't the only cowardly thing she did that night... Ashan gets it, or thinks he does. He excitedly declares that Hedda and he share a \"hunger for life,\" but she pulls back and tells him to be quiet. Then Mrs. Tajae arrives. Hedda explains that the men are going to a drinking party, and Mrs. Tajae immediately asks if Ashan is going too. He's not, says Hedda. Ashan begins speaking to Hedda about he and Mrs. Tajae's \"companionship.\" \"We trust each other completely,\" he says; he's basically rubbing this in Hedda's face. Mrs. Tajae contributes her own two cents- she is Ashan's muse, she says. Ashan adds that Thea is a very courageous woman. Then Hedda offers them both a drink. When Ashan refuses , she begins taunting him. She wants to know if she has enough power over him to make him drink. Also, he's a wuss for not drinking, she says. A REAL man, like the Sudhdev, would be all about the liquor. When Ashan again refuses a drink, Hedda turns to Mrs. Tajae and tells her she was all worked up this morning for no reason. That makes Ashan rather upset; he accuses Mrs. Tajae of not trusting him. Then he downs the two glasses of punch on the table and asks Thea pointedly if her husband sent her to spy on him and fetch him back. As Tesman and Felimon come back over, Ashan declares that he will join them at the party after all. They arrange for him to come back at 10 p.m., in order to escort Mrs. Tajae back home. Mrs. Tajae is clearly worried about her recovering alcoholic pseudo-boyfriend going off to a drinking party. She tries to hide her feelings. Hedda wishes she could go to the party with them. Too bad she's a woman and it's the 1890s. After the men are gone, Hedda turns to Mrs. Tajae. She anticipates Ashan coming back \"a free man,\" all \"fiery\" with \"vine leaves in his hair.\" Mrs. Tajae suspects Hedda's got something planned. Yes, Hedda admits. She wants to have control over a human being, because she never has before. Then she threatens to burn off all Mrs. Tajae's hair, and they both go in to supper.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'George': 'Felimon', 'Julie': "Sarah'Rose", 'Elvsted': 'Tajae', 'Eilert': 'Ashan', 'Jochum': 'Sj', 'Rysing': 'Sekai', 'Elvsteds': 'Freddi', 'Judge': 'Sudhdev'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Lovborg': 'Gabryel'}}