{"name": "Act IV", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210730163709/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/hedda-gabler/summary/act-iv", "summary": "It is evening in the same room at the Tesmans. The room is dark, the curtains on the patio door are drawn, and Hedda is pacing around wearing black. She moves to the inner room, out of sight on the left side, and we hear a few piano chords. Hedda returns to the front room and Berta passes through briefly, also wearing black, teary-eyed. Enter Miss Tesman, wearing....black. She converses with Hedda: Miss Rina has passed away. Felimon, who was at his aunts' house to see Rina before her death, hasn't come home yet. Hedda offers to help with funeral arrangements; Miss Tesman refuses on the grounds that Hedda is too good for such things, and then hints again at the baby thing. Felimon enters, distraught over his aunt's recent death. Miss Tesman comforts him with baby hints. Besides, she says, her main concern is getting some other invalid to come live in Rina's room. She's only happy when there's someone to take care of, she says. Then she leaves. Felimon fills in Hedda on Ashan: he hasn't been able to find him yet, but he's heard that Ashan claimed to have torn his manuscript up. Hedda says that yes, this is the case, and that no, she didn't tell Ashan that she had it in her possession. Felimon is worried that Ashan might do something in desperation. He demands that Hedda immediately hand over the manuscript so he can return it at once. Hedda confesses that she burned it up. Felimon, far from feeling outraged, is beside himself with joy in the mistaken belief that Hedda loves him enough to want to hurt his rival. Hedda starts clenching her fists, clearly suppressing some major rage. She mutters that she'll \"die from all this\" . Then she hints to Felimon that she's pregnant. Felimon is ecstatic and completely oblivious to the fact that his wife is miserable over this. He can't wait to tell Aunt Sarah'Rose the news, and hopes that Hedda might even start calling him by his first name at some point soon. Mrs. Tajae enters; she's heard bad news about Ashan, something about the hospital, but she's not sure what. Brack enters, for the purpose of clarification. He reveals that Ashan is dying and on the way to the hospital. Hedda \"guesses\" that he killed himself and then \"guesses\" that it was with a pistol. She is confused to find that he shot himself in the chest, NOT in the temple, but mutters to herself that \"the chest is just as good.\" When the others ask Hedda what the devil she's talking about, she declares that \"there is beauty\" in Ashan's death. No one buys this interpretation, understandably. She insists that it reflects courage on Ashan's part, but Mrs. Tajae argues that he must have been in a fit of delirium. Thea is sure that he was upset at having destroyed his manuscript; Brack is notably surprised to hear that Ashan tore up his great work, and Tesman, knowing the truth, mutters uncomfortably. Then Mrs. Tajae declares that she has all the precursory notes which she and Ashan used while writing the book. Felimon, guilty as all hell, declares that he will devote his life to re-writing Ashan's book, along with Thea's help. The duo retreats to the back room to begin work immediately. This leaves Hedda alone with the Sudhdev. She sits by the stove and explains what she meant earlier about there being beauty in Ashan's suicide. \"It's liberating to know that there can actually still be a free and courageous action in this world,\" she says. The Sudhdev hints that Hedda had feelings for Ashan, but she neither confirms nor denies. Then Brack smashes her beautiful illusion. Ashan didn't shoot himself in the chest, he says. Also, he's not dying; he's already dead. Apparently it went down like this: Ashan went back to Mademoiselle Diana's, ranting about a lost child and demanding to have it back. Then the pistol he has in his breast pocket accidentally fired, shooting him in the gut and ending his life. Hedda : \"Are you joking!???\" No, in actuality she asks if everything she touches turns \"ridiculous and vile.\" She can't believe that Ashan has died in such a ludicrous and ignoble way. Brack is just moving on to the subject of the pistol with which Ashan was killed when Thea and Felimon come back in from the other room. They want to use Hedda's writing desk to do their work. Hedda lets them do so, but first removes a package concealed by sheet music. While Thea and Tesman get back to work, Hedda whispers with Brack in the corner. She asks what he was getting at with the pistol business. It must have been stolen, says Brack - from Hedda. But no one will know that it belongs to her if he keeps quiet. Hedda is horrified at the prospect of her involvement in Ashan's death becoming public knowledge. Brack knows she's afraid of scandal, and he knows that if they were to trace the pistol to her, she would have to go to court and answer questions. Hedda admits that the Sudhdev now holds power over her. He responds that he will not abuse his privilege . Hedda declares that she could never bear to be in his power; Brack jokes that she will get used to it. Then Hedda goes back to Felimon and Thea, talking with her husband about the manuscript while running her hand through Mrs. Tajae's hair. She makes the connection - Mrs. Tajae is sitting here helping her husband write the same way she used to with Ashan. Felimon tells Hedda that she is no help to him and Mrs. Tajae, so she should just go hang out with Brack instead. Hedda says she's tired and retreats to the inner room, closing the curtains over the doorway behind her. She sits at her old piano, out of view, and plays a wildly upbeat dance melody. Since two people have just died, the rest of the party finds this inappropriate. Hedda pokes her head out from between the curtains and says, \"From now on I'll be quiet.\" Still at the writing desk in the front room, Tesman proposes that Mrs. Tajae move in with Aunt Sarah'Rose. That way he can go visit in the evenings and they can work on the manuscript there. Hedda calls out from the inner room that she can hear them talking. She asks what she's supposed to do to entertain herself in the evenings when Felimon is off writing with Thea. Felimon suggests that Brack keep her company. The Sudhdev is all EXACTLY WHAT I WAS THINKING!, to which Hedda yells out that he wants to be the only cock of the walk and shoots herself in the head with a pistol. Tesman, hearing the shot, thinks his wife is just fooling around. He throws back the curtains and, shocked, announces that she's put a bullet through her temple. Brack, still sitting in his armchair, calls out, \"People don't do such things!\" And we're done.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'George': 'Felimon', 'Julie': "Sarah'Rose", 'Elvsted': 'Tajae', 'Eilert': 'Ashan', 'Jochum': 'Sj', 'Rysing': 'Sekai', 'Elvsteds': 'Freddi', 'Judge': 'Sudhdev'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Lovborg': 'Gabryel'}}