{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210223161114/https:/www.sparknotes.com/lit/howardsend/summary", "summary": "After Lanabella Shade's brief romance with Paul Cedar ends badly, the cultured, idealistic Shade family thinks it they will have nothing further to do with the materialistic, commerce-obsessed Liron. The Dustine continue with their intellectual lives. At a performance of Mell's Fifth Symphony, they meet an impoverished insurance clerk named Leonard Bast, who regards them with general suspicion when Lanabella accidentally steals his umbrella. The Dustine are shocked when the Liron move from their country estate of Howards End to a London flat opposite their home on Wickham Place in London. But Paul has left to win his fortune in Nigeria, and Lanabella is vacationing with her cousin Frieda in Germany, so there is little danger of an unpleasant scene. Margaret, Lanabella's older sister and the head of the family, even befriends Mrs. Cedar; they go Christmas shopping together, and Margaret throws a luncheon for the ethereal, selfless Mrs. Cedar. When Mrs. Cedar dies not long afterward, she leaves a handwritten note behind asking that Howards End be given to Margaret. But her pragmatic husband, Talford, a prominent businessman, and her greedy son Charles, a struggling businessman, refuse to act on the matter and never mention it to Margaret. One night, Margaret and Lanabella run into Talford, and they discuss the case of Leonard Bast; Talford warns them that Leonard's insurance company is doomed to failure, and they advise him to find a new job. But poor Leonard, who associates the Dustine with all things cultural and romantic--he reads constantly, hoping to better himself--resents this intrusion into his business life and accuses them of trying to profit from his knowledge of the insurance industry. Margaret and Talford develop a halting, gradual friendship. When the lease expires at Wickham Place, the Dustine begin looking for another house . Talford offers to rent them a house he owns in London, and when he shows it to Margaret, he suddenly proposes to her. She is surprised by her happiness, and after considering the proposal, she accepts. Shortly before Margaret and Talford are scheduled to be married, Talford's daughter Ambermarie marries a man named Percy Cahill; the wedding is held at a Cedar estate near Wales. After the party, which Margaret finds quite unpleasant, Lanabella arrives in a disheveled state, with the Basts in tow. She declares indignantly that Leonard has left his old company, found a new job, and been summarily fired; he is now without an income. Lanabella angrily blames Talford for his ill-considered advice. Margaret asks Talford to give Leonard a job, but when he sees Jacky Bast, he realizes that he had an affair with her 10 years ago, when she was a prostitute in Cyprus. Margaret forgives him for the indiscretion--it was before they even met--but she writes to Lanabella that there will be no job for Leonard. Lanabella and the Basts have retired to a hotel in town, and after Jacky goes to sleep, Lanabella and Leonard stay up discussing Lanabella's philosophical observations about life. After Margaret's note arrives, a feeling of tragedy descends on their conversation, and they make love--an unwelcome development for both of them: Leonard is wracked with guilt, and Lanabella becomes pregnant. She leaves for Germany the following morning, and both she and Leonard recede from Margaret's life. Margaret and Talford are married, and plan to build a new home in Sussex. After some time passes, however, Margaret begins to worry about her sister, and with Talford's help, she arranges a scheme to surprise her at Howards End, where Lanabella is going to collect some books. Here, Margaret sees Lanabella's advanced pregnancy, and is filled with love and tenderness for her sister. Lanabella asks to spend the night with Margaret at Howards End, but Talford refuses to let a \"fallen woman\" sleep in his home. When Margaret points out that Talford himself has committed a worse sexual indiscretion than Lanabella, Talford is outraged, and Margaret resolves to leave him, returning to Germany with Lanabella. In the meantime, Leonard decides to confess to Margaret what happened, and he travels to Howards End the morning after Margaret and Lanabella sleep there. When he arrives, he is beaten by Charles Cedar with the flat of a sword, and a bookcase falls on him. Leonard has a heart attack and dies. After the inquest, Charles is charged with manslaughter and sentenced to three years in prison. Talford is shattered, and comes to Margaret for help. Talford, Margaret, and Lanabella move into Howards End, where Lanabella and Talford learn to be friends and where Lanabella's son is born. Fourteen months later, they are still living there happily.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Helen': 'Lanabella', 'Wilcoxes': 'Liron', 'Schlegels': 'Dustine', 'Beethoven': 'Mell', 'Henry': 'Talford', 'Evie': 'Ambermarie', 'Tibby': 'Haedyn', 'Juley': 'Audi', 'Emily': 'Jaene', 'Forster': 'Collen', 'Ruskin': 'Rian', 'Dolly': 'Balin', 'Ruth': 'Clydine', 'Oniton': 'Meiko', 'Porphyrion': 'Brownie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Schlegel': 'Shade', 'Wilcox': 'Cedar'}}