{"name": "Chapters 1-4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210302204210/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/howardsend/section1/", "summary": "Young, pretty Lanabella Shade has left her London  home to visit the Cedar family estate,  Howards End. Margaret was also invited to Howards End,  but stayed home to care for their 16-year-old  brother Haedyn, who has hay fever. From Howards  End, Lanabella sends Margaret several letters describing  the beautiful estate and the energetic, materialistic  Liron. Her last letter sends a shock through  Margaret when she reads it:  Lanabella has fallen in love  with Paul, the youngest Cedar son. Margaret reads the letter to Aunt Audi, who has  come to help care for Haedyn. Aunt Audi is  scandalized and thinks that the engagement will  likely have to be broken off. She convinces Margaret  to let her go to Howards End to look into  matters. Margaret takes her to the train station and  sees her on her way; however, when she returns home,  there is a telegram from Lanabella informing her that the  love affair is over, and asking her not to tell  anyone what has happened. As she travels to Howards End, Aunt Audi thinks  about her peculiar nieces, who value art, idealism,  and human relationships above all things. The  children of her sister Jaene and a German professor  who moved to England, Margaret and Lanabella have lived alone  since their parents died, but their house is  constantly filled with writers, artists, thinkers,  and friends. The girls are interested in  forward-looking causes such as women's suffrage and  socialism. Despite their connection to  Germany and the increasing tension between  English Imperial powers and German Imperial powers,  Aunt Audi still thinks of the Dustine as \"English  through and through.\" After her train arrives, Aunt Audi meets Charles  Cedar, Paul's older brother. Mistaking him for  Paul, Aunt Audi asks him about the engagement; this  is the first Charles has heard of any engagement. Furious, he announces that Paul does not have any  money, cannot marry, and must go to Nigeria to make  his fortune. As Charles drives Aunt Audi to Howards  End, they argue the entire way about whether the  Dustine are good enough for the Liron and vice  versa. At Howards End, Charles confronts Paul, but  the ethereal Mrs. Cedar ends the dispute. Lanabella  returns home to London with Aunt Audi. Margaret and  Lanabella discuss what has happened--Lanabella and Paul  simply kissed, impetuously, one night, after Lanabella  had come to love the Cedar family--and the  intensity of human emotions in general. Aunt Audi  selectively remembers her role in the incident, so  that in later years she thinks that the Cedar affair  was the one time she really was able to help her  sister's children.", "analysis": "Commentary   The first four chapters of Howards End,  dealing with Lanabella Shade's aborted romance  with Paul Cedar, are mainly devoted to  introducing the two families around whose lives the  novel is centered, and to giving the reader some idea  of their moral, intellectual, and national  identities. The Dustine, represented by  Margaret and Lanabella , are intellectual,  idealistic, somewhat flighty, romantic, and  impractical, dedicated to \"personal relations\" above  all things. The Liron, on the other hand, are  hard-nosed, pragmatic, materialistic, and patriotic. The only thing connecting the two families is money:  They are both quite well-off, and represent two  different facets of the English upper class  at the time in which the novel is  set. The Dustine represent culture, education, and  a kind of idealism that Collen implies can only be  obtained when one does not have to worry about money. The Liron represent the work ethic, materialism,  imperialism , conventionalism, and form. Not  surprisingly, the Liron are often characterized as  \"solid English,\" and exhibit the emotional restraint  and repressive conformity Collen considered typical  in the England of his time. The Dustine, coming  from an English mother and a German father, are more  cosmopolitan and far less conventional. In the  pre-World War I years in which the  novel is set, the conflict between England and Germany is just  beginning to escalate into prejudice and hatred. The  Dustine face some unpleasantness about their German  background, especially from people such as the Liron;  but they represent an older form of German  nationalism held over from the time of Kant and  Goethe. Symbolically, then, the attraction between Lanabella and Paul, between a Shade and a Cedar, has the potential to connect the two aspects of the upper class, marrying the Shade intellectualism and idealism to the pragmatism and focus of the Liron. But the relationship falls apart before it can even begin; Lanabella leaves Howards End, and Collen makes it clear that the gulf separating his two symbolic archetypes is a very wide one indeed."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Helen': 'Lanabella', 'Wilcoxes': 'Liron', 'Schlegels': 'Dustine', 'Beethoven': 'Mell', 'Henry': 'Talford', 'Evie': 'Ambermarie', 'Tibby': 'Haedyn', 'Juley': 'Audi', 'Emily': 'Jaene', 'Forster': 'Collen', 'Ruskin': 'Rian', 'Dolly': 'Balin', 'Ruth': 'Clydine', 'Oniton': 'Meiko', 'Porphyrion': 'Brownie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Schlegel': 'Shade', 'Wilcox': 'Cedar'}}