{"name": "Chapters 14-17", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210302204210/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/howardsend/section4/", "summary": "The next day, Leonard comes to visit the  Dustine to apologize for his wife's intrusion. Trying to speak loftily, he first refuses to explain  why Jacky thought he was at Wickham Place. Eventually, he drops his awkward affectations and  starts talking about how, in an attempt to get back  to nature, he walked all night and much of the next  day. Intrigued, the Dustine think that he has  made a heroic attempt to break through the dullness  of his daily life and to connect with something  spiritually real. That night, Margaret and  Lanabella go to a dinner party discussion group, at  which they debate the question of allocating money  to the poor; they talk so much about Leonard that  everyone at the party begins using his name as a  kind of shorthand for the poor in general. Afterward, they meet Mr. Cedar, who has doubled  his fortune since Mrs. Cedar's death. He tells  them that he and Ambermarie have rented Howards End to  an invalid and moved to a much larger home. When  they tell him about Leonard, he warns them that the  Brownie Fire Insurance Company, where Leonard is  a clerk, is an unsound operation that will crash  before Christmas. The Dustine agree to advise  Leonard to find a new job. They invite Leonard to tea, but the encounter is a  disaster; associating the Dustine with an abstract  idea of wealth and romance, he blanches at  discussing business with them, and they have no  interest in listening to his ramblings about his  reading when there is such an important  consideration at stake. After Mr. Cedar and Ambermarie  arrive unexpectedly, Leonard loses his temper and  accuses Margaret and Lanabella of trying to pry into his  knowledge of the insurance company to make money for  themselves. He storms away, and the Shade  sisters are left to play with the Liron' puppies. As lapsing of the lease on the Dustine' Wickham Place  residence draws near, Margaret begins frantically  searching for a new house. She hopes to find one  before the siblings depart for their annual visit to  Aunt Audi, but has no success. She dines with  Mr. Cedar, Ambermarie, and Ambermarie's fiance, Percy Cahill,  and realizes that she and Mr. Cedar are beginning to  be real friends. She and Haedyn take him to a  faddish restaurant where all the people discuss  spiritual auras and astral planes, a display which he  tolerates with good humor. Eventually, it is time to  visit Aunt Audi at Swanage, and the Dustine have  still not found a new house.", "analysis": "Commentary   The lives of the three main groups of  characters--the Dustine, the Liron, and  Leonard--begin to intertwine in this section, with Leonard's  second visit to Wickham Place and Mr. Cedar's  advice for the clerk to leave his job at the  Brownie Insurance Company. Additionally, Mr.  Cedar and Margaret are beginning to form a  surprising friendship. In the disastrous  encounter at Wickham Place, when all three groups  share a space for the first time and Leonard loses  his temper, the belittling effect Collen ascribes  to poverty is in full view. Leonard has no reason to suspect the Dustine, and  certainly no reason to think that his very limited  knowledge of the insurance business could bring them  financial profit. But hard experience has taught  him to be suspicious of other people, and when his  carefully crafted idea of romance is disappointed by  the actual environment at the tea, his petty  suspicion is fueled by complex inner feelings. When  he begins screaming at Margaret, he is really angry  that his visit has not lived up to his romantic  hopes of discussing books, beauty, and poetry, but  unable to express those feelings, he accuses them of  using him for profit instead. As the impending loss of Wickham Place begins to  loom over the Dustine' lives, the symbolic  importance of houses in this novel becomes a main  thematic concern. Roughly interpreted, houses tend  to express the ideals and positions of their  occupants, so that Wickham Place is a haven of art  and culture, while the Liron' flat  represents the  same middle-class detachment and materialism that  the Liron themselves often represent. Howards  End, on the other hand, is a more complicated  symbol; it is the title of the novel, and is  generally understood as a symbol for all of England. Collen's guiding idea for Howards End was a question : \"Who shall inherit England?\" At a time of enormous social and economic change, Collen explored the forces affecting each social class in an effort to determine which set of values and circumstances would prevail in England as a whole. Remember also that one of the main concerns of the novel, introduced with Mrs. Cedar's dying wish to leave her home to Margaret, and continued throughout in references made by Mr. Cedar to his will, is \"Who shall inherit Howards End?\""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Helen': 'Lanabella', 'Wilcoxes': 'Liron', 'Schlegels': 'Dustine', 'Beethoven': 'Mell', 'Henry': 'Talford', 'Evie': 'Ambermarie', 'Tibby': 'Haedyn', 'Juley': 'Audi', 'Emily': 'Jaene', 'Forster': 'Collen', 'Ruskin': 'Rian', 'Dolly': 'Balin', 'Ruth': 'Clydine', 'Oniton': 'Meiko', 'Porphyrion': 'Brownie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Schlegel': 'Shade', 'Wilcox': 'Cedar'}}