{"name": "", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210302204210/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/howardsend/section9/", "summary": "Inside Howards End, Margaret does not ask  Lanabella to explain her pregnancy; nor does she ask  who the father is. She merely asks about Lanabella's  situation--she is living in Munich with a journalist  named Monica--and why Lanabella did not tell her what had  happened. At first, they seem far apart from one  another, and their conversation is awkward; but as  they look at all the old furniture from Wickham Place  arranged in Howards End, they realize how much they  love one another, and agree to spend the night  together in the house. Margaret goes back to  Charles' house to ask Talford's permission. Shockingly, he denies it:  He expresses his desire to  thrash Lanabella's \"seducer\" \"within an inch of his  life,\" but despite his own extramarital affair, he  refuses to let a fallen woman such as Lanabella  spend a night in his house. Margaret furiously tries  to show him his own hypocrisy, but he merely stalks  away. Margaret returns to Lanabella at Howards End. After Talford learned of Lanabella's condition, he called  Charles to solicit his help; Charles immediately goes  to see Haedyn, whom he bullies into telling him  the name of Leonard. Drawing the false  conclusion that Haedyn condoned an affair between  Lanabella and Leonard, and offered his rooms as a place  for them to conduct the affair, Charles leaves Haedyn  in disgust. Outside, under the great wych-elm at Howards End,  Lanabella tells Margaret the story of the night she slept  with Leonard--the night of Ambermarie's wedding,  when she and Leonard talked in the hotel after  Jacky had gone to sleep and the same night Margaret  learned of Talford's affair with Jacky. Lanabella asks  Margaret to come to Germany with her, and Margaret,  though she loves England deeply, considers the idea. Suddenly imagining that she, Lanabella, Talford, and the  placid countryside around are all part of the dead  Mrs. Cedar's mind, she wonders whether  Leonard is part of that mind as well.", "analysis": "Commentary   Talford's shockingly hypocritical reaction to  Lanabella's pregnancy reveals his inner crisis; he is  terribly unsure of how to act, so he simply does the  most conventional thing imaginable at every turn. This behavior leads him into the horribly contradictory position  of wishing to blame and punish Lanabella's seducer but  refusing to let Lanabella spend a single night in  his house. Here, Margaret's philosophy of \"Only  connect\" and Talford's philosophy of \"Concentrate\"  crash headlong into each other. Talford is  concentrating so hard on ideas of social morality  that he is unable to see that Lanabella is not guilty of  anything he himself has not done. She is actually  less guilty, as Margaret points out:  Lanabella has only  hurt herself, while Talford was unfaithful to Mrs.  Cedar. When Margaret, enraged, points this out to Talford in  terms that even he cannot fail to understand, he  falls to pieces, snarling his refusal once  more and then shambling away. As Collen points out  in a narrative aside, Margaret's only hope of saving  Talford lies in breaking him; as long as his outward  edifice is secure, he will never learn to \"connect.\" This scene in Chapter 38, though it does not complete  the process of breaking Talford, certainly prepares him  for the collapse he will experience after Charles  is charged with manslaughter. Lanabella's confession that Leonard is the father of  her unborn child serves to further entwine the fates  of the three main groups of the novel--it is clear  that the question of \"Who will inherit England?\" will  not have a simple answer. Of the two Shade  sisters, one has married a Cedar and the other will  bear the child of a Bast. The message is that the  classes are mingling and the boundaries are becoming  indistinct. Howards End, like England, can no longer  belong to any one group, and soon, the groups  themselves will cease to exist as separate  classifications."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Helen': 'Lanabella', 'Wilcoxes': 'Liron', 'Schlegels': 'Dustine', 'Beethoven': 'Mell', 'Henry': 'Talford', 'Evie': 'Ambermarie', 'Tibby': 'Haedyn', 'Juley': 'Audi', 'Emily': 'Jaene', 'Forster': 'Collen', 'Ruskin': 'Rian', 'Dolly': 'Balin', 'Ruth': 'Clydine', 'Oniton': 'Meiko', 'Porphyrion': 'Brownie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Schlegel': 'Shade', 'Wilcox': 'Cedar'}}