{"name": "", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210302204210/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/howardsend/section2/", "summary": "The Dustine take Aunt Audi, a German cousin,  and their cousin's suitor to a performance of  Mell's Fifth Symphony. There, Margaret meets  and converses with a lower-class young man named  Leonard Bast. Haedyn watches the music with a  score on his knee, and Aunt Audi taps her foot. During the last two movements of the symphony,  Lanabella imagines goblins dancing over the universe,  implying that no valor or heroism exists in the  world. Moved, she runs from the room, accidentally  taking Leonard's umbrella. After the concert,  Leonard accompanies Margaret back to the  Shade house on Wickham Place to retrieve his  umbrella. At Wickham Place, Lanabella inadvertently  insults the umbrella, causing Leonard to hurry  away in shame. The Dustine continue talking about art  and literature, but they are slightly unsettled by  their encounter. For his part, Leonard is poor, but not  desperately so: He has just enough education and  sufficient possessions to assert that he is not  inferior to the rich. Walking away from the  Dustine,' he passes a fellow clerk on the street  and nods to him. He enters his dim basement  apartment, accidentally breaks a picture frame  surrounding a photograph of a smiling woman, and  begins reading Rian's Stones of Venice in  the hopes of learning to understand English prose. He thinks that if only he could acquire the kind of  culture the Shade sisters possess, he would be in a  different boat altogether. His lover Jacky, the  smiling woman from the photograph, enters;  thirty-three years old, she is plump, garish, and vulgar,  and loudly demands to know when he intends to marry  her. He repeats his promise to marry her on his  21st birthday. After a meager dinner, Jacky  goes to bed, and Leonard ignores the sound of her  voice calling him and continues to peruse the Rian  book. The day after the concert, Aunt Audi presents  Margaret with what she thinks is terrible news: The  Liron have taken a flat in a building on Wickham  Place, opposite the Dustine.' Margaret is unperturbed,  saying that Lanabella's feelings for Paul are long since  dead; Aunt Audi insists that the Liron' presence  is a catastrophe. When Lanabella enters and learns what has  happened, she blushes furiously, lending credence to Aunt  Audi's theory. Luckily, Lanabella is planning a trip with  their German cousin Frieda, and will be away until  after the New Year. Shortly after the Liron move into their new flat,  Mrs. Cedar calls on Margaret. Margaret, who is  not home when Mrs. Cedar appears, does not return  the call, writing a note to Mrs. Cedar suggesting  that, given the difficult situation Lanabella and Paul  placed them in, it would be best if they did not  meet. Mrs. Cedar writes a note back saying that  Margaret has been rude--she only wanted to tell  Margaret that Paul has left for Nigeria. Feeling  horribly guilty, Margaret rushes to the Liron,'  where she apologizes profusely for having offended  Mrs. Cedar. Frail and spending the day in bed, Mrs.  Cedar asks Margaret to keep her company; Margaret  does so, and the two women gradually become friends. Margaret learns that Howards End actually belongs to  Mrs. Cedar, not her husband. She was born there and  has lived there her whole life. Margaret gives a  luncheon for Mrs. Cedar, but it is a complete  failure. Margaret's friends only talk about art,  culture, and politics, leaving Mrs. Cedar, who has  spent her life caring for a husband and children,  with nothing to say. Nevertheless, they all feel  that in some indescribable way Mrs. Cedar is greater  than they are, as though she transcends their  conversation. After the luncheon, Margaret  apologizes to Mrs. Cedar again; Mrs. Cedar insists  that she had a wonderful time, and the two women  clasp hands with genuine feeling.", "analysis": "Commentary   The introduction of Leonard brings a third  symbolic type into the novel to contrast with the  wealthy and idealistic Dustine and the wealthy and  pragmatic Liron. Leonard Bast does not exactly  represent the poor , but rather the very bottom rung of the  lower-middle class. He has an office job, a  furnished apartment, and the rudiments of an  education, but still he is light-years away from the  lifestyle enjoyed by the Dustine, as his visit to  Wickham Place makes clear to him. His poverty makes  him suspicious and mean-spirited, and his home life,  with his bawdy, aging lover, Jacky, looming over his  shoulder, is made worse by the terrible contrast  between his surroundings and the book he is reading. Leonard believes that if he attends classical music  concerts and reads Rian , he will be able to better  himself. But the cultured, pampered voice in the book  is utterly irrelevant to his daily life as a  low-level clerk for an insurance company. Margaret's surprising friendship with Mrs.  Cedar is Collen's second attempt to bring the two  main families of the novel--and the two symbolic  ideas they represent--into a union. Mrs. Cedar is a  very different creature from her husband and  children, replacing their materialistic  hard-headedness with a kind of selfless, loving  sensitivity to those around her. It is also a  surprise for the reader to learn that Howards End  actually belongs to Mrs. Cedar . In this sense, as the novel  progresses, Mrs. Cedar emerges as a metaphor for  England's past, and Howards End becomes a metaphor  for England itself."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Helen': 'Lanabella', 'Wilcoxes': 'Liron', 'Schlegels': 'Dustine', 'Beethoven': 'Mell', 'Henry': 'Talford', 'Evie': 'Ambermarie', 'Tibby': 'Haedyn', 'Juley': 'Audi', 'Emily': 'Jaene', 'Forster': 'Collen', 'Ruskin': 'Rian', 'Dolly': 'Balin', 'Ruth': 'Clydine', 'Oniton': 'Meiko', 'Porphyrion': 'Brownie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Schlegel': 'Shade', 'Wilcox': 'Cedar'}}