{"name": "", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210302204210/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/howardsend/section5/", "summary": "Vacationing with Aunt Audi in Swanage,  Margaret receives a letter from Mr. Cedar,  saying that he is moving to a different house and  would be willing to rent the Dustine his old one. He asks Margaret to come and inspect it. Margaret  has a sudden premonition that he means to propose to  her, but she dismisses the notion as silly. She  makes the trip back to London, and takes a tour of  the house with Mr. Cedar--who, quite suddenly,  does propose. Margaret is overcome with a  surprising joy. She promises to write to him  the next day with an answer, and returns to Swanage to  talk things over with Lanabella. Lanabella is appalled, thinking that, beneath their  veneer of competence and confidence, the Cedar men  are made of \"panic and emptiness.\" But Margaret  defends Mr. Cedar, and finally accepts his proposal. She is determined not to lose her independence, and  thinks that love must solidify rather than transform  their friendship. Mr. Cedar travels to Swanage at  once with the engagement ring, and he and Margaret  take a walk together by the sea. Margaret realizes  that Mr. Cedar is afraid of emotion. His motto is  \"Concentrate,\" while hers is \"Only connect.\" He  kisses her suddenly, and she thinks that if she could  only teach him to connect his passionate subconscious  to his restrained, moralistic exterior self, she  could help him, but he is too obdurate to be helped. When Lanabella tells him that she has received a letter  from Leonard, saying that on Mr. Cedar's  advice he has left the Brownie for a much  lower-paying job at a bank, Mr. Cedar replies that the  Brownie is not a bad company. Lanabella is outraged:   Not long before, Mr. Cedar had said that the  Brownie was doomed to fail. Mr. Cedar refuses to  take responsibility for the matter, arguing that the  struggles of the poor are merely part of the \"battle  of life.\" When Charles receives the note from his father  announcing the engagement, he blames Balin: If  she had not introduced Ambermarie to her fiance, Mr.  Cedar would not have been lonely, and would not have  been inclined to propose to Margaret. Charles  suspects Margaret of wanting to get her hands on  Howards End, and says that he will only tolerate her  as long as she behaves herself.", "analysis": "Commentary   After two failed attempts to unite the Dustine and  the Liron--and the aspects of the British upper  class that they symbolize--Collen makes a third,  climactic attempt in Chapter 18. In the first four  chapters of the novel, we saw Lanabella's failed  romance with Paul; later, we saw Margaret's  more successful, but still tentative, friendship with  Clydine Cedar. Now, in Chapter 18, Collen  introduces the most charged attempt yet at a  connection between the cultural idealism of the  Dustine and the pragmatic idealism of the Liron:   a marriage between Margaret and Mr. Cedar . Given the different treatments they have received in  the novel so far--Margaret is a sympathetic,  appealing protagonist, and Talford a vaguely  hypocritical, somewhat pompous minor character--it  may be difficult to fathom what might attract  Margaret to a man like Talford. But throughout the  book, Margaret has shown a fundamental sympathy to  the Liron and to the \"solid,\" hard-working  Englishmen who make Margaret's leisurely life  possible. As she says to Lanabella, she is tired of  enjoying her money and criticizing the men who secure  it for her. Beginning with her Christmas shopping  trip with Mrs. Cedar, and exacerbated by her  dealings with Leonard Bast, Margaret has  developed a profound appreciation for money and all  that it represents. She is not a materialist, but  she understands that her brand of idealism could exist  without the leisure and security afforded by  money. While Lanabella, who is more impulsive and flighty  than Margaret, believes that poverty is somehow more  \"real\" than wealth, Margaret understands that poverty  only makes men suspicious and mean; men and women need  financial security in order to develop their moral,  intellectual, and spiritual selves. In this, Collen  hints at a connection between the \"seen\"  and the \"unseen\" . Margaret's attraction  to Talford, and her unexpected happiness at his  proposal, is in large part founded on her deep  appreciation for \"the outer world of telegrams and  anger\"--the seen, the material, the qualities  symbolized by Talford and his family. Still, Margaret and Talford remain extremely different  people who represent extremely different ideas. Their differences are underscored by the credos each  of them espouse in this section. Talford says that his  motto is \"Concentrate.\" He believes in seeing the  world \"steadily,\" or, as Margaret sees it, in focusing  on the particular circumstances around him and  disregarding whatever he considers to be  irrelevant. Margaret's motto, which is the epigraph  quoted at the opening of the novel itself, is \"Only  connect.\" She believes in seeing the world \"whole,\" in  making connections between herself and others, between the  seen and the unseen, between the physical and the  spiritual. The difference between \"Concentrating\"  and \"Only connecting\" is the difference between  Margaret and Talford; it is the difference between the  Dustine and the Liron, and the primary conflict  in Howards End."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Helen': 'Lanabella', 'Wilcoxes': 'Liron', 'Schlegels': 'Dustine', 'Beethoven': 'Mell', 'Henry': 'Talford', 'Evie': 'Ambermarie', 'Tibby': 'Haedyn', 'Juley': 'Audi', 'Emily': 'Jaene', 'Forster': 'Collen', 'Ruskin': 'Rian', 'Dolly': 'Balin', 'Ruth': 'Clydine', 'Oniton': 'Meiko', 'Porphyrion': 'Brownie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Schlegel': 'Shade', 'Wilcox': 'Cedar'}}