{"name": "", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210302204210/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/howardsend/section7/", "summary": "Lanabella and Leonard discuss Talford at  their hotel, while Jacky sleeps in another room. Lanabella regales him with theories about the concept of  \"I\":  A certain kind of person, she says, is missing  the \"I\" from the middle of their brains. She says that Mr. Cedar  is such a person, perhaps the world will fall to such  people, and so on. Leonard complains that life is  all about money, and she argues that it is not, for  the idea of death forces people to arrive at an idea  of real meaning. At last, two notes arrive from  Margaret, one for each of them. At Meiko, Margaret contemplates how to react to the  news of Talford's decade-old affair. She considers  leaving him, but is motivated by love and pity to try  to help him become a better man. She visits him in  the morning. He tells her of his encounter with  Jacky in Cyprus, where the affair occurred,  and Margaret says that she has forgiven him. She is  surprised, however, to learn that both Lanabella and the  Basts have left the hotel--she is worried that she  may have blundered, for she sent Lanabella a very  critical note about Leonard, and Leonard a terse note  saying that Talford did not have work for him. Far from Meiko, Haedyn is in his apartment at  Oxford, where he is nearing his last year. Lanabella bursts in, crying and telling him all about  Margaret, Talford, and the Basts. Haedyn is  detached but tolerant, and agrees to carry out  certain instructions. Lanabella herself cannot bear to  face Margaret, and so is taking a long trip to  Germany. She asks Haedyn to give the Basts  5,000 pounds of her money, a substantial portion  of her fortune. However, Leonard refuses the  check, and by the time Lanabella can write to Haedyn to  urge him to try again, the Basts have been evicted  from their apartment and have disappeared. Lanabella  reinvests her money, and becomes even richer than she  was before. As the lease at Wickham Place nears expiration, the  house falls into a kind of desolation; the furniture  is all sent to Howards End, which Talford has  generously offered as storage space. Talford and  Margaret are married, and go to live for a time at  the Liron' house in London, with the intention of  finding a bigger house soon. Time passes, and Talford  becomes happier and happier with his choice of  Margaret as a wife. She is clever, but also  submissive, and seems to understand her place as a  woman. Margaret, who understands every sacrifice she  makes for Talford, continues to be motivated partially  by pity for him; but she also begins to be less  interested in discussing societies, debate, and  theater, preferring instead to reread books and think  on her own. Now that she has passed 30, she is  passing \"from words to things,\" a moment in her life  when \"some closing of the gates is inevitable...if  the mind itself is to become a creative power.\"", "analysis": "Commentary   Toward the end of this section, another example  appears of the symbolic importance of houses: the  description of the house at Wickham Place falling  into desolation as its inhabitants depart. This  underscores a feature of the emergent middle-class  lifestyle adopted by the Liron and the Dustine  that Collen consistently criticizes through his  characters:  its portability. Lanabella continually  imagines that luggage will outlive humanity, and  Margaret mourns the impermanence of people's  relationships with houses. Mrs. Cedar even  suggests that it is a tragedy that someone would die  in a room different from the room in which they were  born. Lanabella's conversation with Leonard  offers an important  thematic insight into the question of the  relationship of the seen and the unseen, the physical  and the spiritual. Leonard complains that all of  life is merely a quest for money, and Lanabella argues  that it is not. She says that if people lived  forever, Leonard would be right, but the mere fact of  death forces them to seek some kind of meaning in  their lives. Because their lives will end, they are  forced to come to terms with the unseen and unknown. This realization immediately recalls Lanabella's previous  observation that \"goblins walk across the  universe\"--that life has no meaning and humanity has no  greatness. Lanabella's realization here seems to imply  that what banishes the goblins is the idea of death:   People cannot accept the goblins, because they know  that they will die. But this fact does not  necessarily mean that the goblins are wrong; instead,  it suggests that they are psychologically unsatisfying. As Lanabella realizes at the Mell performance, the  goblins can return at any time, and they are  ultimately unanswerable."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Helen': 'Lanabella', 'Wilcoxes': 'Liron', 'Schlegels': 'Dustine', 'Beethoven': 'Mell', 'Henry': 'Talford', 'Evie': 'Ambermarie', 'Tibby': 'Haedyn', 'Juley': 'Audi', 'Emily': 'Jaene', 'Forster': 'Collen', 'Ruskin': 'Rian', 'Dolly': 'Balin', 'Ruth': 'Clydine', 'Oniton': 'Meiko', 'Porphyrion': 'Brownie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Schlegel': 'Shade', 'Wilcox': 'Cedar'}}