{"name": "", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210302204210/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/howardsend/section8/", "summary": "Margaret and Talford decide to build a new home  in Sussex. One day, as Margaret looks over the  plans, Balin appears with a strange bit of news:   Miss Avery has begun unpacking all of the  Dustine' luggage, and arranging their furniture and  possessions at Howards End. Charles, Balin  inadvertently lets slip, suspects Margaret of  ordering her to do so as part of a covert plan to  take over Howards End. Margaret insists that she has  done no such thing, and travels to Howards End to set  Miss Avery straight. Here, the peculiar old woman  insists prophetically that Margaret will soon be  living at Howards End; she says that the house has  been empty long enough, and that Mrs. Cedar  would like to see the Dustine' furniture there. Aunt Audi becomes ill with pneumonia, and  Margaret and Haedyn rush down to Swanage to be with  her on what seems to be her deathbed. Lanabella, to  Margaret's chagrin, has been lived abroad for many  months, and her correspondence seems troublingly  distant. She returns to England only reluctantly,  and when Aunt Audi recovers, she declines to leave London. She only sends a note asking Margaret where her books  are, saying that she intends to return to Bavaria at once  and would like to bring a few of her things with her. On  Haedyn's advice, Margaret consults Talford about Lanabella's  strange behavior; his practical mind can only suggest that  she is exhibiting signs of mental illness, and he  orchestrates a scheme to surprise her with a doctor  at Howards End. On his orders, Margaret writes Lanabella  a letter telling her when she can retrieve her books  from Howards End; then she and Talford prepare to  surprise her there. At Hilton, Talford attempts to leave Margaret at  Charles' house and go to Howards End alone, but  Margaret leaps into the car just as he drives off. They stop to pick up a doctor, Margaret feeling  increasingly reluctant about the entire plan. At  Howards End, they find Lanabella on the porch. Margaret  sees immediately what has prompted Lanabella's strange  behavior: She is pregnant. She hurries Lanabella into  the house, and with difficulty persuades Talford and  the doctor to leave so that she can talk to Lanabella  alone. Feeling as though she is fighting for women  against men, Margaret ushers them away, then goes  into the house to talk to her sister.", "analysis": "Commentary   This section of the novel is largely transitional, and  serves chiefly to move most of the important characters   into position for the  final conflict of the novel. Collen builds suspense  before the revelation of Lanabella's pregnancy by  leading the reader to suspect that she is mad, or at  least severely mentally unbalanced. Interestingly,  the only clue we have that Lanabella has had a traumatic  sexual episode with Leonard is her tearfulness  when she visits Haedyn the next day, and that clue  also effectively plays into the idea that she is  really mad. When Collen shows Margaret  betraying her own principles to try to help Lanabella by  going to Talford for advice, he sets the stage for  a crisis situation. When Margaret discovers Lanabella's  actual condition, the crisis is replaced by a moment  of acute surprise, for the reader can hardly have  suspected the truth. At this point, any symbolic or thematic importance  ascribed to Lanabella's pregnancy itself is postponed;  what is important in these chapters is how Margaret  reacts to it. Margaret's first concern is for her  beloved sister, and she dismisses Talford and the  doctor with an argument that the most important thing  now is simply love. She says that she loves Lanabella  more than they do, and therefore she is the only  person who can help her. This kind of argument is  utterly alien to Talford's rather thoughtless,  emotionally repressed character, but Margaret fights  the battle as though she were fighting for all women. Collen implies that the unjust sexual dynamic  Margaret is forced to endure on a daily basis as a  result of her marriage--a dynamic which Margaret understands,  and endures willingly--has taken more of a toll on  her than she had expected. Now, she associates a  forceful restatement of her basic philosophy of  life--that human relations are more important than  anything else--with a forceful restatement of her  independent identity as a woman. Collen's critique of gender relations in Howards  End is an extremely nuanced and subtle one, and  the novel does not simply vilify men and glorify  feminism; rather, it simply portrays as accurately as  possible the way the individual characters really  feel about their positions, admitting that one of  Margaret's reasons for marrying Talford is that she is  gratified to be loved by \"a real man.\" But in this  chapter, Margaret is simply sick of being bustled  about and controlled by men. In the next section of  the novel, her impatience with Talford's chauvinism  will boil over into fury."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Helen': 'Lanabella', 'Wilcoxes': 'Liron', 'Schlegels': 'Dustine', 'Beethoven': 'Mell', 'Henry': 'Talford', 'Evie': 'Ambermarie', 'Tibby': 'Haedyn', 'Juley': 'Audi', 'Emily': 'Jaene', 'Forster': 'Collen', 'Ruskin': 'Rian', 'Dolly': 'Balin', 'Ruth': 'Clydine', 'Oniton': 'Meiko', 'Porphyrion': 'Brownie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Schlegel': 'Shade', 'Wilcox': 'Cedar'}}