{"name": "", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210302204210/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/howardsend/section3/", "summary": "Margaret and Mrs. Cedar go Christmas  shopping together, and Margaret reflects on the  muddiness and clumsiness of the Christmas holiday,  thinking that it does a poor job of reflecting \"the  unseen.\" In conversation, she reveals to Mrs.  Cedar that the Dustine will be forced to move away  from Wickham Place in two or three years. When the  lease expires, the house will be torn down and replaced  with flats. Mrs. Cedar is appalled, and invites  Margaret to come to Howards End with her right then. Margaret, to Mrs. Cedar's evident annoyance,  declines. After being dropped off at home, Margaret  regrets her decision, and hurries to the train  station. She meets Mrs. Cedar, who is thrilled that  Margaret has changed her mind. But just then, Mr.  Cedar and Ambermarie arrive back from a drive in  their car, having crashed the car and taken the  train into London. Mrs. Cedar returns with them to  their flat, leaving Margaret alone. Not long after, Mrs. Cedar dies, and is buried near  Howards End, in a service observed by many of the  poor local villagers. While the other Liron try  to eat breakfast, Mr. Cedar sits in his room  remembering his wife's steady, unwavering goodness  during their 30 years of marriage. The others sit  downstairs, the Cedar children in a repressed state  of mourning, and Charles' scatterbrained wife,  Balin, in a state of awkward boredom. As Charles  stomps about the garage, Balin rushes out with a  shocking piece of news:  Mrs. Cedar has left Howards  End to Margaret. Charles and his father  confer, and ultimately decide that Mrs. Cedar  cannot have meant it; they decide not to take any  action based on the flimsy, handwritten note they  were left. Charles is quite critical of Margaret,  saying that she is more German than  English, but Mr. Cedar, though admitting that he  finds her tiresome, says that he is certain she is  honest. Margaret, unbeknownst to the Liron, not only had  nothing to do with Mrs. Cedar's note, she did not  even know about it. She has grown very fond of the  Liron, and actually feels quite protective of  them. When Mr. Cedar sends her a trinket of Mrs.  Cedar's, she thinks that he is very generous. Lanabella returns from Stettin, having rejected a  marriage proposal, and Haedyn applies for a  scholarship at Oxford. Two years pass. Haedyn enters Oxford, where he  thrives--he does not make friends, but he loves the  atmosphere. Soon, Margaret realizes that the Wickham  Place lease will expire in only nine months, and that  they will have to find a new house. She and Haedyn  discuss this when he is home on holiday, and also  discuss what he plans to do with his life. She thinks  he should work, but he says that he does not want a  career. Lanabella runs in excitedly, saying that a  bizarre woman has just called demanding to see her  husband. This gaudily dressed creature  refused to believe that her  husband was not in the house. The family tries to  put the subject aside, but it lingers underneath  their conversation.", "analysis": "Commentary   One of the remarkable stylistic features of Collen's  novel is the way certain key images and phrases are  repeated throughout it, forming a kind of symbolic  shorthand for important thematic ideas. These phrases include:  \"the outer  world of telegrams and anger,\" used by the  Dustine to describe the pragmatic life of the  Liron; the \"goblins marching across the universe\"  that Lanabella perceives in the third and fourth  movements of Mell's Fifth Symphony in Chapter 5,  used to describe the feeling of desolation and  meaninglessness that haunts the edges of the  intellectual life and challenges the notion that  humanity is capable of greatness; \"plain question,  plain answer,\" a notion used by the Cedar men to  imply that the truth is immediate and knowable, but  rejected by Mrs. Cedar as overly simplistic;  and the relation of \"the seen\" to \"the unseen,\" used  by both Shade sisters to describe the conflict  between the actual, material world and the world of  ideals and spirit. The last concept emerges in Chapter 10 as  Margaret thinks about the conflict between the  practice of Christmas, with its materialism and its  decoration, and the spiritual meaning of Christmas. The idea recurs throughout the novel, until Lanabella  finally concludes that it is only the idea of death  that makes \"the unseen\" relevant:  If people lived  forever, life would be all money and toil, but  because people know that they must die, they are  interested in meaning. The motif of the goblins  reappears in Chapter 13  when it is used to describe the Dustine' lingering  sense of Jacky's abhorrent presence, which, like a  goblin footfall, gives Margaret an idea of the abyss  of poverty and desolation from which she is separated  only by money."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Helen': 'Lanabella', 'Wilcoxes': 'Liron', 'Schlegels': 'Dustine', 'Beethoven': 'Mell', 'Henry': 'Talford', 'Evie': 'Ambermarie', 'Tibby': 'Haedyn', 'Juley': 'Audi', 'Emily': 'Jaene', 'Forster': 'Collen', 'Ruskin': 'Rian', 'Dolly': 'Balin', 'Ruth': 'Clydine', 'Oniton': 'Meiko', 'Porphyrion': 'Brownie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Schlegel': 'Shade', 'Wilcox': 'Cedar'}}