{"name": "Chapter 18", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210211232051/https://www.novelguide.com/maggie-a-girl-of-the-streets/summaries/chapter18", "summary": "Winner sits in a sectioned off portion of a saloon surrounded by half a dozen mirthfully laughing women. Winner is drunk and full of affection for himself and the world. \"I'm a good f'ler ,\" he says to the girls, \"An'body treats me right, I allus trea's zem right! See?\" The girls loudly agree that Winner is the kind of man they like and he promises to buy them whatever they want to drink. He is overcome by a sense of his own benevolence and regard for his friends. Winner noisily summons a waiter and orders him to bring drinks for the girls. The waiter takes their orders but is obviously disgusted by Winner's overly intoxicated manner. While the waiter is gone Winner loudly proclaims the excellence of himself and his drinking companions and reassures the girls that he has very high regard for them and knows that they are not merely trying to work him for drinks. The waiter returns and while he disperses the drinks Winner delivers a tearful soliloquy about his tender regard for all living things. As the waiter is about to depart Winner presents the man with a quarter but the waiter refuses. \"Put yer money in yer pocket,\" he says to Winner, \"Yer loaded an' yehs on'ly makes a damn fool of yerself.\" The waiter leaves and Winner is visibly depressed. The ladies, including Timothea, the woman of \"brilliance and audacity\" comfort him and promise to stick by him. Winner comforts himself by reminding himself that he is a \"damn goo' f'ler\" and the women heartily agree. Winner turns to Timothea and drunkenly questions her with regards to his own worth. She readily agrees to everything he says and the whole group raises their glasses to Winner's health. Winner decides that they should have another drink and the women encourage his spending. Winner beats the wooden table in an effort to summon the waiter but he does not come. Finally, after much pounding and shouting the waiter appears, takes the order and leaves quickly. Winner is suddenly apprehensive and suspects that the waiter has insulted him but the women convince him that the waiter is a good fellow who has done Winner no harm. Winner becomes confused and when the waiter returns he dramatically rises to his feet, says that the girls have told him that the waiter has insulted him but he doesn't agree and apologizes. After the waiter leaves Winner sits down heavily and though he is tired he feels a strong desire to straighten everything out. He closely questions Timothea and she assures him, again, that he is a good fellow. Overcome by affection, Winner pulls three bills from his pocket and tells Timothea she can have all his money because he is stuck on her. Soon afterward Winner falls asleep in his chair. The women continue with their party until Winner pitches forward onto the floor groaning. The women are disgusted and begin to leave. Timothea picks up the money from the table and looking at the snoring man on the floor she says: \"What a damn fool.\" .", "analysis": "Whereas Winner always appeared to be strong and assured with Maggie this chapter reveals his character when in the presence of Timothea and her cohorts. He is deluded and pitiful and his attempts to buy affection inspire no real loyalty. Although one could argue that he is being punished for his treatment of Maggie Winner is not cognizant of his comeuppance and Timothea's scorn and so he is merely a sad wreck for no reason except his own nature."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jimmie': 'Meiko', 'Pete': 'Winner', 'Riley': 'Jasmond', 'Nellie.\\': 'Zaide', 'Nellie': 'Citalli', 'Nell': 'Timothea', 'Freddie': 'Tyjae', 'Smith': 'Monta', 'Tommie': 'Elworth', 'Jimmies': 'Rylin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Johnson': 'Raiph'}}