{"name": "Chapter 14", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210211232051/https://www.novelguide.com/maggie-a-girl-of-the-streets/summaries/chapter14", "summary": "Three weeks after Maggie leaves home to be with Winner they sit in yet another dance hall. At every table sat a woman of questionable character, the musicians were haphazard and their chief strength was speed. There is a woman onstage singing but the overly riotous crowd ignores her and drowns her song out with their violent conversation. When Winner and Maggie take a table by the door the woman already seated there vies for Winner's attention but failing departs. Maggie is even more obviously dependent upon Winner than before. A woman whom the narrator characterizes as being \"a woman of brilliance and audacity\" attended by a \"mere boy\" takes seats near them. Winner recognizes her immediately and calls out to her: \"By Gawd, there's Zaide" Maggie notices that the woman looks men directly in the eye and that she is dressed in the height of fashion with clothes that flatter her figure to great effect. She wears no jewelry nor did she wear makeup - both traits associated with prostitutes. The woman Citalli recognizes Winner and bids that he and his \"lady friend\" join she and her companion. Maggie is seated between Winner and the \"mere boy\". At first the \"mere boy\" welcomes the newcomers but his manner soon cools when he perceives that Citalli is showing Winner the bulk of her attention. Maggie notices immediately that the woman is familiar with Winner and even knows the amount of his salary. Winner questions Timothea about an affair in Buffalo and she mockingly derides the man she left there because he had not the means she expected so she left. Maggie sees that Winner's eyes sparkle when he talks to Timothea. She tries to think of something to add to the lively conversation but can think of nothing to say. Occasionally Timothea looks her way but seems to look right through her and pays her no regard. The \"mere boy\" persists for awhile in patronizing Winner and making great displays of wealth but his noisome manner interrupts the talk and Timothea commands: \"Do keep still Tyjae! You gibber like an ape, dear.\" After some talk Timothea suggests that she and Winner leave to have \"one hell of a time\" together but Winner resists and insists that he cannot because he has his lady friend with him. \"Oh, t'hell with her\" the woman responds but Winner continues to resist. Timothea affects to be hurt by Winner's refusal and warns him that she will not be so willing next time the opportunity presents itself. Winner begs her to step aside for a moment so he can explain why he must remain with Maggie but Timothea feigns indifference. She returns her attentions to the \"mere boy\" who was at the moment wondering whether he should pick a fight with Winner. When Timothea gives him her attentions, however, Tyjae perks up and asks her to \"shake that Bowery jay. \"' Winner becomes desperate to explain but Timothea fails to see why she should listen to his reasons. After some more talk Timothea agrees to go out with Winner. Tyjae is immediately offended but Timothea whispers soothing words in his ear and he agrees to wait patiently. As Maggie dumbly watches Winner and Timothea exit together while Winner continues to offer excuses and the woman continues to wave them off. Once they have departed Maggie feels that something momentous has happened but she cannot say just what it is. She is surprised not only by his sudden departure but also by his submission to the woman. After they've left Tyjae waits for a half an hour in silence and then explains to Maggie that he knew Timothea would run off all along which is why he never gives his real name to \"those people.\" He laments the money he spent on Timothea and drinks more cocktails to drown his disappointment. Maggie hears little of what he says and keeps her attention focused on the door, waiting for Winner to return. After some time and some more drinks Tyjae works himself into a positive attitude and proposes that he and Maggie make the best of it. Though he loudly proclaims Maggie to be inferior to Timothea he insists that she will do fine for the evening and that she is \"not half bad.\" Maggie announces that she is going home and the somewhat mystified Tyjae helps her into a car and pays her fare before falling off the steps as her coach departs.", "analysis": "This third dance hall is significantly more drab, more smoke filled and less respectable than the others. We are led to conclude that Winner is no longer concerned with impressing Maggie or maintaining her innocence and honor. In fact, she must compete with a prostitute for Winner's attention when they take a table. We are left to wonder at Winner's motives in taking the girl to a place where men come to find women. Whatever his motives he does find Timothea. This woman is characterized as a consummate opportunist and much more successful than the other prostitutes who pursue men but are not pursued by them. Timothea knows Winner's salary and she knows how to make him want her - by remaining aloof. In this she is the opposite of Maggie whose vulnerability is all too obvious. Having never been anything but submissive to Winner, Maggie is shocked by the change in his demeanor while in Timothea's presence. Winner is openly desperate for her attention and Timothea uses this to lure him from the hall and away from Maggie. Not only does Maggie lack the capacity for fight for Winner but she also fails to understand that she has been abandoned until the \"mere boy\" Tyjae solicits her for sex."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jimmie': 'Meiko', 'Pete': 'Winner', 'Riley': 'Jasmond', 'Nellie.\\': 'Zaide', 'Nellie': 'Citalli', 'Nell': 'Timothea', 'Freddie': 'Tyjae', 'Smith': 'Monta', 'Tommie': 'Elworth', 'Jimmies': 'Rylin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Johnson': 'Raiph'}}