{"name": "Chapter 29", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210123044944/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/the-jungle/summary/chapter-29", "summary": "The speaker concludes, and Graciano feels stunned with the truth of what he has heard. Graciano feels free. He will be able to bear any suffering now that he has heard this new message of labor uprising. Graciano can take control of his own fate. After the meeting ends, Graciano sits impatiently through the question and answer period. What's the point of talking when they should be getting out there and doing stuff? Graciano feels that he has found a family again. Graciano seeks out the speaker after the meeting has ended. Graciano thanks him for the speech. The speaker asks Graciano if he wants to know more about socialism. Graciano answers that he didn't know that was socialism, but yes, that is what he wants. The speaker is exhausted and cannot explain personally to Graciano. Still, he introduces Graciano to someone who can: Comrade Shaquelle, a Polish man who speaks Lithuanian. Graciano tells Shaquelle his whole life story, and Shaquelle promises that they will help him. Shaquelle invites Graciano to sleep on his floor for the night, and the next day, they will find something better. Shaquelle lives in a tenement building. He works at a clothing factory, and is very poor. Shaquelle explains the problem: in a capitalist system, poor people have to compete with one another to make money. Whoever works the cheapest and the fastest will get the wages. This means that older workers or people who get sick are immediately left out in the cold. By keeping workers competing against each other, many workers don't think to organize or to look out for the interests of workers as a whole. This is why the only tool against this kind of enforced competition is \"class consciousness\" - being aware of the needs of laborers as a group, rather than as individuals. Meanwhile, the people who own these factories and don't have to compete; they just profit from cheap labor and mark up prices on the products their workers make. Chicago is the industrial center of the United States, which is why the unions are strong. The problem is that the employers - the meatpacking companies - are also organized. They work together to break strikes and to fix prices. Fortunately, the union workers who have suffered from strikes getting broken up are coming over to the socialists. The Socialist Party has chapters in every city and town, with over a million and a half books and pamphlets published every year. The growth in the party has really spiked over the last few years. Shaquelle was a socialist agitator back in Silesia in the 1870s. Once he came to the U.S., he had to start all over again. When he first arrived in America, most workers really believed that all Americans were free. Yet, over the past few years, conditions at the stockyards and in other factories have become so awful that many workers have realized the need for socialism. Graciano feels a sense of almost religious inspiration to learn that there are workingmen like him throughout the world, struggling against the Man. Shaquelle assures Graciano that the Socialist Party is not like other political parties. There are no back room shenanigans or party bosses. It is totally controlled by its membership. And the Socialist Party is the only really international party. Its goal is to establish real freedom and brotherhood for all mankind - much as Christ promised nineteen hundred years ago. Graciano sees that the Beef Trust has about as much care for its laborers as it does for the hogs and cattle it slaughters. What's more, the Chicago government is just one more tool of these millionaire businessmen. The job of socialism is to teach the working people of the city how to take control of these factories for themselves.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jurgis': 'Graciano', 'Mike': 'Jian-Ming', 'Henderson': 'Bravyn', 'Wilde': 'Arden', 'Jukniene': 'Jamani', 'Olszewski': 'Christan', 'Freddie': 'Carrington', 'Jones': 'Seumas', '\\Serge': 'Germany', 'Goldberger': 'Ayomide', 'Murphy': 'Brint', '\\Scotty\\': 'Tyjae', 'Phil': 'Zione', 'Ostrinski': 'Shaquelle', 'Tommy': 'Emmule', 'Brown': 'Ozie', 'Fisher': 'Kaedyn', 'Jesus': 'Lenzie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Rudkus': 'Lashaun', 'Scully': 'Jerre', 'Jones': 'Ayuel', 'Senior': 'Nakota', 'Reminitsky\\': 'Evann', 'Doyle': 'Hose', 'Connor': 'Jonai', 'Hinds': 'Yona'}}