{"name": "Chapter 22", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210123044944/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/the-jungle/summary/chapter-22", "summary": "Graciano stands still in shock for a few minutes after Mrs. Jamani tells him that his baby son is dead. Then, Graciano goes upstairs to the attic. He finds Teta Elzbieta fainting next to Antanas's body. Marija is pacing and screaming. Marija tells Graciano that Antanas refused to listen to any of the women of the house. He ran outside without paying attention to their warnings not to do so. Once outside, he got caught in the mud and drowned in the street. Graciano goes straight out the door. But this time, he doesn't walk to the nearest bar. He just keeps walking. Graciano decides that Antanas is better off dead. This is no world for women and children. Now Graciano is free at last. He's going to fight against the world. Graciano jumps on a passing train and rides out into the countryside. It's been so long since he has seen the fresh landscape of the country - even trees, he hasn't seen since coming to the United States. Graciano jumps off the train and goes to a nearby farmhouse. Graciano buys some breakfast from the farmer's wife. He lies down next to a stream and feels sleepy and happy. When he wakes up, he decides to have a proper bath in a nearby pool. Graciano feels like a child again as he swims around. He begins to feel clean at last as he washes all the crap and lice out of his hair and off his body. Graciano washes his clothes as well. He hopes that they will stop smelling of fertilizer. Graciano naps in the sun as he hangs his clothes up to dry. Graciano walks to another farmhouse and asks to buy food. The farmer tells Graciano to go away: \"We don't feed tramps here\" . Graciano walks off, but in revenge, he yanks all the farmer's newly planted baby peach trees out of the ground. Graciano has decided that he's not going to take anymore bad treatment from anyone ever again. Graciano reaches another farmhouse. He offers to pay for food and shelter. The farmer accepts his money for dinner and lets Graciano stay in his barn for free. The farmer offers Graciano a job after dinner. Graciano refuses; he doesn't want another job that isn't year round . The next day, Graciano heads off again. Graciano is becoming a tramp. He sleeps in fields and shelters in deserted buildings when it rains. Graciano lives off the land as much as he can. He picks blackberries, raspberries, apples, and other things that are making us hungry to think about. Eating good food, resting plenty, and working as much as he needs to to get by, Graciano finds his health coming back. Graciano occasionally hangs out with other tramps and hobos, but mostly, he walks where he wants to go. Harvest season comes around. Graciano finds plenty of work and plenty of money. Now he has nothing to spend it on and no reason to save. So, on a Saturday night, Graciano goes into town and has a rioting good time with a prostitute. He wakes up the next morning penniless and ashamed of himself. Graciano walks out of town and tries to repress his guilt, but he can't. He still feels that he has done the wrong thing by falling into this cycle of working hard and playing hard. One night, there is a big storm. Graciano shelters with a farmer and his family. This farmer is a new immigrant from Russia. He has a baby, a little boy about a year old. This baby has a rash all over his body - nothing too serious; it sounds like heat rash. The baby is very healthy looking in spite of his red spots. Graciano sees this happy child, enjoying life even though he is suffering some physical setbacks. He hears the baby lisping Russian to his mother. Graciano suddenly starts to cry. He is heartbroken that he has lost his family and he is ashamed of his own behavior after their deaths.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jurgis': 'Graciano', 'Mike': 'Jian-Ming', 'Henderson': 'Bravyn', 'Wilde': 'Arden', 'Jukniene': 'Jamani', 'Olszewski': 'Christan', 'Freddie': 'Carrington', 'Jones': 'Seumas', '\\Serge': 'Germany', 'Goldberger': 'Ayomide', 'Murphy': 'Brint', '\\Scotty\\': 'Tyjae', 'Phil': 'Zione', 'Ostrinski': 'Shaquelle', 'Tommy': 'Emmule', 'Brown': 'Ozie', 'Fisher': 'Kaedyn', 'Jesus': 'Lenzie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Rudkus': 'Lashaun', 'Scully': 'Jerre', 'Jones': 'Ayuel', 'Senior': 'Nakota', 'Reminitsky\\': 'Evann', 'Doyle': 'Hose', 'Connor': 'Jonai', 'Hinds': 'Yona'}}