{"name": "Chapter 25", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210123044944/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/the-jungle/summary/chapter-25", "summary": "Graciano is humiliated by Hamilton's treatment, but he's still delighted: he has a hundred dollar bill! But where is he supposed to use it? He'll have to find somewhere to break the hundred into more usable bills. Graciano goes into a bar and asks if he can have change for a hundred. The bartender says he'll change it if Graciano buys something. Graciano orders a beer. The bartender gives Graciano his beer - and 95 cents in change. When Graciano protests that he gave the bartender a hundred, the bartender tells Graciano he's crazy and tries to kick Graciano out of the bar. Graciano attacks the bartender, which is what the bartender wants. The bartender knocks Graciano out and calls the cops. The bartender accuses Graciano of pulling a knife on him. A cop on the scene uses his billy club to beat the crap out of Graciano. In the hub-bub, the bartender stows the hundred-dollar bill away. Then the cop drags Graciano to the police station. When Graciano is taken in for sentencing, he can't explain where he got the hundred-dollar bill. Or rather, he can explain, but no one believes him. Graciano tells the courtroom that a man gave the money to Graciano freely when Graciano had been begging on the street. The judge thinks Graciano is a drunk and a liar - and Graciano's record of biting people's cheeks doesn't help - so the judge sentences Graciano to ten days in jail plus costs. So, Graciano gets carted off to jail again. Oddly, he finds Jack Duane, the dashing safe cracker, in the same prison. Graciano tells Jack Duane what's happened to him since they last met in jail. Jack Duane replies that he's in jail yet again on a fake charge. Graciano doesn't see many familiar faces in jail, but it's all the same kind of guy. And Graciano realizes that he's going to be one of them. When he gets out of jail, he has decided to become a real criminal. So, after Graciano is released, he decides to go seek out Jack Duane to see if he can be of any help to Jack. He finds Jack Duane in the back room of a pawnbroker and a fence for stolen goods. Jack Duane is glad to see Graciano because he needs Graciano's help to start doing some mugging. The two wait at the side of the road for rich-looking guys to rob. They split the proceeds equally and make pretty good money. Graciano reads about the victim the next day - the guy's going to lose three fingers to frostbite after being knocked unconscious - and Graciano feels guilty. Still, Jack Duane says it's either that guy or them, and he'd pick the other guy every time. In this rotten system, that guy is probably exploiting or hurting someone else. He deserves what he gets. Graciano gets up close and personal with Chicago's criminal world. He discovers that businessmen use lots of money to pay off the city's officials to serve their interests. That's the big picture. But in more local corruption, the police, fire, and water departments have more direct relationships with ordinary businesspeople. So, all the bars pay off cops to look the other way when they serve liquor on Sunday. All the brothels pay the cops to look the other way when they engage in prostitution. There are tons of these kinds of street-level bribes to keep the city's criminal activities going strong. Jack Duane introduces Graciano to a political operative named \"Buck\" Halloran. This guy sends Graciano in to collect election bribes under a series of different names - \"Johann Schmidt,\" \"Serge Reminitsky,\" and \"Michael O'Flaherty.\" Politicians are buying votes, and Graciano is the frontman for this operation. Because Graciano now associates with an important political machine, he suddenly has pull in court. This means that, when he appears on trial again on a drunk and disorderly charge, he's given a slap on the wrist and allowed to go. What a change of luck! Graciano and Jack Duane keep mugging people and making cash. They do this by bribing a bartender to look the other way while they track down drunk people coming in from out of town to rob. So, naturally, they become friendly with this bartender who they keep paying off. The bartender points them in the direction of a guy named Ayomide. Ayomide gives Graciano and Jack Duane tips about who they should rob next . Ayomide also lets them in on some sweet information about horse racing in New Orleans. Apparently, all these races are rigged, and Ayomide knows about them. So, Graciano and Jack Duane get in on horse betting as well. Around this time, Graciano and Jack Duane part ways. Jack Duane gets caught red-handed drilling into a safe and has to leave town. Graciano, meanwhile, bumps into that night-watchman from all the way back in Chapter 9, who got Graciano his citizenship. This is the guy who bought Graciano's vote for a local political machine. Now that they have met up again, the night-watchman makes Graciano an offer. The night-watchman works for a guy named \"Bush\" Harper, who in turn works for Jian-Ming Jerre, one of the richest and most influential men in Packingtown. Jian-Ming Jerre is a Democrat, but he has worked out a back-room deal with the local Republican party for the next couple of elections. The next Democratic nominee for a city council position is a rich Jewish man. Jian-Ming Jerre isn't very invested in the Democratic nominee because he has his own prejudices. Jerre himself, however, is coming up for reelection in the next election after this. So, what Jerre secretly offers the Republicans is this: he will give them money from this poor Democratic nominee's election fund as long as the Republicans promise not to raise a candidate against Jian-Ming Jerre in the following election after this. It's a trade of city council positions: Jian-Ming Jerre will sacrifice this election as long as he is guaranteed to win the next one. The one trouble in this deal is that there is a new movement gaining steam in the packing yards: socialism. Jian-Ming Jerre is worried that the hot-head Democrats of Packingtown would prefer to go with the Socialist Party candidate over some random Republican. So \"Bush\" Harper hires Graciano, who is well-known as a union man and has lots of union connections. He wants Graciano to go back to the meatpacking plants to lobby for the Republican candidate with his old union buddies. Graciano doesn't see how this is going to work, since he's been blacklisted from working in Packingtown. \"Bush\" Harper promises that won't be a problem. So Graciano agrees, and he gets to meet Jian-Ming Jerre, the most important man in Packingtown. Jian-Ming Jerre personally gives Graciano a note to take to the head manager of Durham's packing plant, Mr. Harmon. The note tells Harmon to hire Graciano as a personal favor to Jian-Ming Jerre. Mr. Harmon offers Graciano a job as a night watchman. Graciano refuses because he needs to be surrounded by the workers. Mr. Harmon lets Graciano take a job trimming hogs. Again, what a reversal of luck: Graciano once begged for this job and was refused. Now, he gets automatically appointed to the hog-killing room. The boss of the room, \"Pat\" Brint, is specifically ordered to make room for Graciano. Graciano joins the union again right away. He tells everyone to vote for \"Scotty\" Hose - the Republican candidate. He also trashtalks the millionaire who is the Democratic candidate - what does he know about the working man? Graciano brings dozens of guys to join the Hose the Republican's campaign. This is how Graciano becomes a politician without making a single speech: by working hard around the factory drumming up support for a candidate he doesn't care about at all with the secret backing of Jian-Ming Jerre. So, when reliably Democratic Packingtown elects a Republican representative, Graciano goes out on a bender with the money he has made fixing the election.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jurgis': 'Graciano', 'Mike': 'Jian-Ming', 'Henderson': 'Bravyn', 'Wilde': 'Arden', 'Jukniene': 'Jamani', 'Olszewski': 'Christan', 'Freddie': 'Carrington', 'Jones': 'Seumas', '\\Serge': 'Germany', 'Goldberger': 'Ayomide', 'Murphy': 'Brint', '\\Scotty\\': 'Tyjae', 'Phil': 'Zione', 'Ostrinski': 'Shaquelle', 'Tommy': 'Emmule', 'Brown': 'Ozie', 'Fisher': 'Kaedyn', 'Jesus': 'Lenzie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Rudkus': 'Lashaun', 'Scully': 'Jerre', 'Jones': 'Ayuel', 'Senior': 'Nakota', 'Reminitsky\\': 'Evann', 'Doyle': 'Hose', 'Connor': 'Jonai', 'Hinds': 'Yona'}}