{"name": "Chapter 23", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210123044944/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/the-jungle/summary/chapter-23", "summary": "He starts walking the rounds at the mills and factories looking for a job. He finds a job ad in the paper and applies even though he thinks it's probably some kind of scam. The man taking names at this place asks Graciano if he has ever worked in Chicago. Graciano lies and says he's from Kansas City. He doesn't want to be saddled by his old life. The job all takes place underground: Graciano is digging the new Chicago subway system. By the way, this system has never really taken off and most of Chicago's public transit trains are above ground . This public transit system is the result of some kind backstage wheeling and dealing between a bunch of different big Chicago companies and none of the work is being done by unionized labor. Still, Graciano doesn't care. He's just happy that he's involved with a new tunnel so the work should be steady for the whole winter. Graciano rents a room in a nearby tenement and starts to settle down. However, Graciano also starts up another old habit: he hangs out at the local bars for much of the evening to escape the cold weather. Building underground tunnels is extremely dangerous work, as Graciano discovers up close and personal . Graciano is walking out of work one night when a loaded railway car zips around the tracks and knocks Graciano into the concrete wall of the tunnel. He wakes up in the hospital with a badly broken arm. Graciano has to leave the hospital after two weeks, but his arm is still weak and he can no longer work. He also has no more pay left. So, yet once more, Graciano finds himself out on the streets in the middle of the Chicago winter. Graciano goes from bar to bar trying to get warm, but he doesn't have enough money to buy drinks or settle in for an evening. Graciano is desperately cold when he hears the sounds of a church service going on nearby. He goes in to the meeting to hear an evangelist preaching about sin. Graciano isn't really interested in religion. He's just looking for shelter from the cold. Graciano listens to this preacher and starts to feel resentful. Even though the preacher means well, he is comfortable and warm. He's out of touch with the real suffering that he pretends to address with his religion. Graciano has a few dimes left, so he finally goes off to his lodging house for a bed to sleep in. He can't really afford this, but it is so cold that he would freeze to death if he didn't. The only way Graciano can make any money at all is by begging. Since he's fresh out of the hospital and pathetic-looking, Graciano should make a mint. He's up against professional beggars, though, who use makeup to make themselves appear worse off than they are. Some of his fellow beggars are also really, really badly off - much more desperate even than poor Graciano. So, Graciano doesn't really stand out among the crowd.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jurgis': 'Graciano', 'Mike': 'Jian-Ming', 'Henderson': 'Bravyn', 'Wilde': 'Arden', 'Jukniene': 'Jamani', 'Olszewski': 'Christan', 'Freddie': 'Carrington', 'Jones': 'Seumas', '\\Serge': 'Germany', 'Goldberger': 'Ayomide', 'Murphy': 'Brint', '\\Scotty\\': 'Tyjae', 'Phil': 'Zione', 'Ostrinski': 'Shaquelle', 'Tommy': 'Emmule', 'Brown': 'Ozie', 'Fisher': 'Kaedyn', 'Jesus': 'Lenzie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Rudkus': 'Lashaun', 'Scully': 'Jerre', 'Jones': 'Ayuel', 'Senior': 'Nakota', 'Reminitsky\\': 'Evann', 'Doyle': 'Hose', 'Connor': 'Jonai', 'Hinds': 'Yona'}}