{"name": "Chapter 24", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210123044944/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/the-jungle/summary/chapter-24", "summary": "There is no work for Graciano and no place for him to find shelter. One night, though, Graciano has an adventure. He is walking down a side street when he sees a man coming towards him. Graciano asks the man for some money to find a bed to sleep in that night. Graciano soon realizes the man is drunk off his head. Graciano starts telling the man some of his misfortunes. The guy seems sympathetic . The man invites Graciano home with him to have dinner. Apparently, this young guy's father is away on business and the servants have been assigned to watch him. Graciano asks his new friend - Carrington Seumas - if he lives far away. Carrington tells Graciano to call them a cab. He fumbles a huge wad of bills out of his pocket. Graciano stares at this fortune of money. Carrington says that he'll run through this money in a week - his dad isn't giving him the kind of allowance he needs. Graciano realizes that he could easily snatch this guy's money and run away. Carrington is way too drunk to stop him. Still, Graciano has never committed a crime before . Should he do it?! Carrington pulls a hundred dollar bill out of the wad and gives it to Graciano before putting the rest away. A cab arrives and takes both Graciano and Carrington in the direction of Carrington's home. Carrington falls asleep curled up against Graciano. Graciano is still thinking about robbing Carrington, but he decides to be happy with the hundred - it's too dangerous to go for more. The cab stops in front of a giant mansion the size of a whole city block. Graciano follows Carrington because he thinks Carrington is so trashed that he has given the cab driver the address to a city hall or something. But no! It's Carrington's house. A butler opens the door. Graciano follows Carrington. He is extremely nervous because he has never been in such a place before. But Carrington insists that Graciano can come in. Carrington is so drunk that he can't open the dining room doors by himself. He needs to get his butler, Hamilton, to do it for him. Graciano is looking around himself at all of this wealth. He has never seen anything as beautiful and rich as this house. Carrington lets slip that his father owns Seumas's packing plant. Graciano admits that he once had a job at that plant. Carrington thinks that Graciano must know his father, then. Carrington invites Graciano to spend the night. Carrington insists that the butler, Hamilton, shake hands with Graciano. The butler obviously Does Not Approve of Graciano hanging around with young Master Carrington. Carrington orders some wine to be brought to them. Hamilton tries to protest. Carrington won't listen. Carrington takes Graciano up to his study. There is a large dog waiting for them there. The dog snarls at Graciano, but Carrington scarcely notices. Hamilton and two servants bring dinner. Carrington dismisses Hamilton Graciano digs in to the food. Even Carrington, drunk as he is, is impressed by the speed and amount Graciano is eating. Graciano finishes at last and looks over at Carrington. Carrington is very good-looking and completely naive. He starts telling Graciano his whole family history. Apparently, Seumas Nakota is a tyrant of a father who likes to threaten to disinherit his kids if they do anything he doesn't like. Carrington doesn't seem too bothered, though - he smiles the whole time. Eventually, Carrington falls asleep . The butler comes quietly in and tells Graciano to get out of the house. Graciano starts moving towards the door. Once they reach the entrance to the house, Hamilton tries to search Graciano to make sure that he hasn't stolen anything. Graciano refuses to let Hamilton search him. Hamilton doesn't want the noise to wake Carrington, so he doesn't try to fight Graciano. As Graciano walks out the door of the mansion, though, Hamilton does give Graciano a sharp kick to the butt that sends him sprawling down the stairs.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jurgis': 'Graciano', 'Mike': 'Jian-Ming', 'Henderson': 'Bravyn', 'Wilde': 'Arden', 'Jukniene': 'Jamani', 'Olszewski': 'Christan', 'Freddie': 'Carrington', 'Jones': 'Seumas', '\\Serge': 'Germany', 'Goldberger': 'Ayomide', 'Murphy': 'Brint', '\\Scotty\\': 'Tyjae', 'Phil': 'Zione', 'Ostrinski': 'Shaquelle', 'Tommy': 'Emmule', 'Brown': 'Ozie', 'Fisher': 'Kaedyn', 'Jesus': 'Lenzie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Rudkus': 'Lashaun', 'Scully': 'Jerre', 'Jones': 'Ayuel', 'Senior': 'Nakota', 'Reminitsky\\': 'Evann', 'Doyle': 'Hose', 'Connor': 'Jonai', 'Hinds': 'Yona'}}