{"name": "Chapter 26", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210123044944/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/the-jungle/summary/chapter-26", "summary": "Graciano sticks around Packingtown and keeps his job after the elections. He asks Mrs. Jamani what has happened to Elzbieta and the rest. Apparently, they have all moved down town. Graciano starts doing all of the fun things you can do in a city when you have friends and money: he plays pool and cards, he goes to movie theaters, and he dances with the ladies. Meanwhile, there are troubles between the union and the packing plants . By June, the unions decide to strike across all the big meatpacking centers in the country. So, Graciano decides to go see Jian-Ming Jerre about what he should do. Jian-Ming Jerre asks Graciano why he can't just stay on at his job. Graciano is totally taken aback. It has never occurred to him to work as a \"scab\" - a union word for a person who keeps working even while a labor strike is going on. Jian-Ming Jerre tells Graciano he can't be useful in the campaign process now anyway - Graciano is widely known as a Republican, and Jian-Ming Jerre is a Democrat. It'll be a while before Graciano can help Jian-Ming Jerre out again. So Graciano goes back to the largely empty factory. His boss, \"Pat\" Brint, is glad to see Graciano. In the middle of a strike, suddenly, there is a lot more need for workers than there are workers willing to come in. So Graciano can demand much higher pay than usual - three bucks a day. Graciano is having a good time - he's being well-paid and is very comfortable. The one spot of bother comes when he and his buddies try to leave the factory to grab a beer. A bunch of union guys walking the picket line call Graciano a scab and exchange a few punches with him. The whole fight is over in about two seconds, but the newspapers immediately report, \"Violence in the Yards! Strikebreakers Surrounded by Frenzied Mob!\" . This is, of course, ridiculous. The next morning, \"Pat\" Brint calls Graciano in and asks if he has experience on the killing floors. Graciano realizes he is about to get a promotion to boss. Graciano makes sure that he will get to keep his foreman job even after the strike. \"Pat\" Brint agrees: the meatpacking plant owners don't want to encourage union members by making them bosses. Being a boss of this temporary labor force is not great: a lot of the workers aren't exactly committed to working hard, and they don't listen to Graciano's orders. Still, Graciano doesn't sweat too much over it - if he can't make his men work, he's not going to break his back over it. Life inside the factory is getting pretty grim. There's lots of alcohol available, and plenty of food, but the workforce is disordered and there are hints of violence all over the place. Eventually, the unions agree to come back to work after 45 days. Even though the packing companies promise that they will not target union leaders for any kind of punishment, there is still an order from up top that no union leaders should be hired back to their old jobs. This kind of selective hiring totally pisses off the unions. When the unions see that the meatpacking plants are only taking some of their workers and not others, the cattle butchers decide to go on strike again right there. Things are taking a dangerous turn in Packingtown, and being a scab is suddenly really not a good position. So the strike continues, and the factories stay under siege. Because scabs can't cross the picket lines for their own safety, they are mostly living in the factories themselves. The packers keep bringing in people they are recruiting from outside of the cities - mostly poor African Americans from the South who have no experience with meatpacking at all. Plenty of criminals take advantage of this sudden influx of new people to start up gambling rings and illegal boxing in the stockyards. So now, the stockyards are not only filled with animals waiting to slaughter. They are also packed full of people sleeping in temporary cots, drinking a great deal, and having sex with the swarm of prostitutes that have come to the yards to make some money. The smell of all of these guys collected in one place - and their dirty laundry, and their awful, awful toilets - is absolutely disgusting. Graciano comes to hate himself for working against union interests. He becomes bad-tempered and he starts drinking again. One day, the news comes that a couple of cattle have escaped out into the crowd of striking workers. The packers put Graciano and his crew on a truck so that they can go and fight these workers. See, because the guys outside are all experienced cattle butchers, they quickly manage to knock one of the cattle down. They all have hungry families at home, so they start cutting up the meat for their own use. The police jump into this scene and start using their clubs on every union member they can reach, because this is technically theft. Graciano and his boys join in the violence. Graciano and a couple of cops chase a guy into a bar. As the second cop runs after the union guy, Graciano and the first cop both start helping themselves to drinks inside the bar. And then it gets worse: one of the two cops grabs the Polish woman bartender to hold her back while the second cop goes through her cash register and takes all of her money. Then the three run men run off, and the riot outside dies down. Graciano gets trashed that night. He finds a woman whom he plans to sleep with. They head into a dark room together. Who should Graciano find there but Jonai, his old nemesis! Graciano suddenly feels his old rage at Jonai welling up again. He leaps on top of Jonai. Graciano starts to pound Jonai's head against the floor. Once again, Graciano bites off a piece of the guy. The cops come and pull Graciano off after beating him unconscious. Graciano spends the night at the stockyard police station. The next morning, rather late, Graciano's old buddy \"Bush\" Harper comes by. Bail has been set at 500 bucks. \"Bush\" Harper says he can manage that. When Graciano tells \"Bush\" the name of the guy he beat up, though, everything comes crashing down. Jonai is Zione Jonai - one of Jian-Ming Jerre's biggest helpers. Jian-Ming Jerre is out of town, so he can't get Graciano out of prison before Zione Jonai finds out about it. \"Bush\" Harper can't afford to make Zione Jonai angry. \"Bush\" Harper makes Graciano this offer: \"Bush\" can get the bail reduced, and then Graciano can skip town. Graciano has three hundred dollars in the bank. \"Bush\" takes the whole three hundred, pays Graciano's bail, and Graciano gets out of jail. Graciano has about three dollars left to his name.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jurgis': 'Graciano', 'Mike': 'Jian-Ming', 'Henderson': 'Bravyn', 'Wilde': 'Arden', 'Jukniene': 'Jamani', 'Olszewski': 'Christan', 'Freddie': 'Carrington', 'Jones': 'Seumas', '\\Serge': 'Germany', 'Goldberger': 'Ayomide', 'Murphy': 'Brint', '\\Scotty\\': 'Tyjae', 'Phil': 'Zione', 'Ostrinski': 'Shaquelle', 'Tommy': 'Emmule', 'Brown': 'Ozie', 'Fisher': 'Kaedyn', 'Jesus': 'Lenzie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Rudkus': 'Lashaun', 'Scully': 'Jerre', 'Jones': 'Ayuel', 'Senior': 'Nakota', 'Reminitsky\\': 'Evann', 'Doyle': 'Hose', 'Connor': 'Jonai', 'Hinds': 'Yona'}}