{"name": "Chapter 30", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210123044944/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/the-jungle/summary/chapter-30", "summary": "The next morning, Graciano goes to find Teta Elzbieta. He starts talking to her about socialism. Teta Elzbieta couldn't care less about whether or not socialism is right for the world. All she cares about is that Graciano's new convictions mean that he plans to stay sober and look for a job. Once she figures that out, she encourages Graciano's socialism as much as he wants. Graciano starts looking for jobs at the various hotels in the neighborhood. A week later, Graciano goes into the lobby of a hotel and approaches the owner. The owner asks Graciano if he drinks. Graciano says no, and the owner asks Graciano if he is afraid of hard work. There's a job available for a night porter, but he'll have to do a lot of cleaning and hauling. Graciano says that's fine. Graciano tells Shaquelle he's gotten a job at a nearby hotel. Shaquelle is thrilled to hear that Graciano has been hired at Hind's Hotel. Apparently, Emmule Yona, the owner of this place, is a state organizer of the Socialist Party in Illinois. The next day, Graciano informs his employer that he is also a socialist. Emmule Yona shakes his hand. Emmule Yona calls Graciano \"Comrade Graciano,\" and Graciano calls his boss \"Comrade Yona.\" Emmule Yona frequently goes out to convince people to vote the socialist ticket to solve their troubles. He has a history as a union organizer and populist. After the 1896 election, in which Populist and Democratic candidate William Jennings Bryan lost his campaign for president, Emmule Yona gave up on the idea of wealth in private hands. Ever since then, he has been getting himself invited to every business meeting and church service in Chicago so that he can preach the value of socialism far and wide. Emmule Yona's hotel is also a big source of pro-socialist political activity. His staff members are all socialists, and his chief clerk has been fighting the big railroad companies his whole life. His assistant clerk is Harry Adams, a smart guy from Massachusetts who moved down south to South Carolina and was horrified by the widespread illiteracy and poverty he found there. So he moved to Chicago and became a socialist. Oddly, the fact that this hotel is a socialist business doesn't mean it's not profitable. The hotel is inexpensive and gets plenty of out-of-towners looking for work in the stockyards who are too poor to afford lodging elsewhere. Emmule Yona works to convert all of these new guys to the cause. He frequently asks Graciano to tell them about his experiences in the stockyards. Graciano is reluctant at first, but eventually he realizes that Emmule Yona doesn't need him to get personal - he just wants Graciano to explain the bad business and hygiene practices at these meatpacking plants. Emmule Yona explains that it's not just the Beef Trust ; all business in the US is dominated by just a few super-powerful companies. The Standard Oil Company controls the price of oil and the Steel Trust overcharges on nails, and so on. Graciano learns everything he needs to know about socialism working for Emmule Yona. Because he has such faith in Emmule Yona's views, Graciano works harder and with more loyalty than he ever would have for the meatpackers. Graciano does his best to convert his acquaintances to socialism. Still, he often finds himself almost getting into fights. Even though the benefits of socialism seem obvious to Graciano, a lot of working people resist. They claim to prefer individualism, and resist the kind of control on their money that socialism would mean. Graciano feels that these people are forgetting that the people who really benefit from individualism and capitalism are the steel, oil, and meat magnates. It's never the working guy who profits from free enterprise. Graciano starts to read newspapers and to learn about America's history so that he can convince people to join the socialist cause. At socialist meetings, Graciano meets a range of extraordinary organizers and great people who have sacrificed so much to join the cause of the working man. Graciano becomes a regular reader of Appeal to Reason, a socialist newspaper with lots of tidbits about how the American working man suffers. They begin to distribute this newspaper in Packingtown after the union lost the strike there, so that workers can take hope. Graciano also hands out Appeal to Reason in the stockyards in an effort to undo the damage he did when he was part of Jian-Ming Jerre's political machine. The socialists are gaining a real political foothold in Packingtown, and Jian-Ming Jerre and his political machine are on the run.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jurgis': 'Graciano', 'Mike': 'Jian-Ming', 'Henderson': 'Bravyn', 'Wilde': 'Arden', 'Jukniene': 'Jamani', 'Olszewski': 'Christan', 'Freddie': 'Carrington', 'Jones': 'Seumas', '\\Serge': 'Germany', 'Goldberger': 'Ayomide', 'Murphy': 'Brint', '\\Scotty\\': 'Tyjae', 'Phil': 'Zione', 'Ostrinski': 'Shaquelle', 'Tommy': 'Emmule', 'Brown': 'Ozie', 'Fisher': 'Kaedyn', 'Jesus': 'Lenzie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Rudkus': 'Lashaun', 'Scully': 'Jerre', 'Jones': 'Ayuel', 'Senior': 'Nakota', 'Reminitsky\\': 'Evann', 'Doyle': 'Hose', 'Connor': 'Jonai', 'Hinds': 'Yona'}}