{"name": "Chapter 15", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210123044944/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/the-jungle/summary/chapter-15", "summary": "Starting in summer, every time Ona has these hysterical crying fits, she promises Graciano that it will never happen again. Winter comes and, with it, the Christmas rush. Marija, Elzbieta, and Ona have to work fifteen or sixteen hours a day. It's so exhausting that they can barely crawl into bed at night. One night just before Thanksgiving, there is a huge snowstorm. Graciano has two drinks at a bar before going home and is struggling with his growing alcoholism. Very early in the morning, Teta Elzbieta wakes him to tell him that Ona hasn't come home that night. Marija, the children, and especially Stanislovas start to cry from fright - there is a deep blizzard outside, and they think she might have died in the cold. Graciano runs to the stockyards. He doesn't hear of any accidents on the way, and he finds that Ona did actually leave work the night before. Ona comes into Graciano's sight through the snow just as the factories start opening. She falls into Graciano's arms and explains that she spent the night with Jadvyga because it was too cold to go home the night before. Graciano is so relieved to see her that he doesn't press any further. For the rest of December before Christmas, Graciano carries Ona to work in the mornings and meets her in the evenings to escort her home. Just before the holidays, Marija and Teta Elzbieta come home at midnight saying that Ona left work before them. The night isn't particularly cold or snowy, so no one can figure out why Ona has not come home yet. They wake Graciano to explain that Ona is mysteriously absent. He assumes that Ona is staying with Jadvyga and decides to go to Jadvyga's apartment in the morning. Graciano knocks on the door and one of Jadvyga's sisters answers. She tells him that Ona hasn't been here - in fact, Ona has never been there, not even the night a month before when she claimed to have stayed over with Jadvyga. Graciano is totally dazed. He has no idea where Ona could be. Graciano goes to Ona's factory and finds that Ona's boss also isn't in. Apparently, there has been some kind of problem with the streetcars, and no one from the city center has been able to get out to Packingtown. Graciano protests that Ona has never been to downtown Chicago. The man who Graciano is talking to seems to know something about Ona's whereabouts, but he won't say. The man asks Graciano, \"How should I know where your wife goes?\" . Around noon, Graciano asks at the police station if anyone has seen Ona. He eventually decides to head home and find her there. Graciano sees that the streetcars are running again. He notices someone wearing Ona's distinctive hat get off a streetcar a few blocks away from their house. He follows her carefully, suddenly suspicious about where she has been. Ona enters the house, and Graciano bursts in five minutes later. Teta Elzbieta shushes Graciano and tells him that Ona is asleep, that she has been sick, and that she has been wandering the streets all night in a daze. Teta Elzbieta lies to Graciano. She tells him that Ona came in soon after Graciano left in the morning, and that she has been in bed ever since. Graciano walks straight into the bedroom and asks Ona where she has been. Ona tries to repeat Teta Elzbieta's lie about Ona's sickness. Graciano tells her outright that she is lying to him. He knows that she has been downtown - he saw her get off the streetcar. Ona begins to cry hysterically . Teta Elzbieta comes in and tries to calm Ona, but Graciano sends her out again. Ona falls on the floor and appears to be convulsing. Graciano thinks Ona might be dying. Eventually, Ona reaches for Graciano and begs him to have faith in her: she is trying to do the right thing. Graciano should stop asking her where she is going; it will be better if he doesn't know. She tells him that she has been to Miss Bravyn's house downtown. She continues to explain: her boss, Jonai, warned her that he would make sure no one in her family could get a job in Packingtown if Ona didn't sleep with him. This was two months before today. After raping Ona in the hallway of her factory, Jonai forced Ona to go to Miss Bravyn's brothel. Jonai has been blackmailing Ona into becoming a prostitute after her hours as a factory laborer so that Graciano and Marija can keep their jobs. Ona has tried to keep it from Graciano, especially since it would all have been over soon. She thinks he would have let her stop prostituting herself as her pregnancy continued because she is \"getting ugly\" . But now that Graciano knows, Ona is afraid that Graciano will go and kill Jonai and they will all be ruined. Graciano walks out of the house and runs to the nearest streetcar to go to Ona's factory. Graciano finds Jonai, the boss of the people who load up the factory's products for shipment. Graciano leaps on top of Jonai and starts to strangle him. He bashes Jonai's head against the floor. As the surrounding workers start to pull Graciano off Jonai, he bites Jonai's cheek out of rage. Finally, they manage to choke Graciano to unconsciousness and drag him off to the police station.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jurgis': 'Graciano', 'Mike': 'Jian-Ming', 'Henderson': 'Bravyn', 'Wilde': 'Arden', 'Jukniene': 'Jamani', 'Olszewski': 'Christan', 'Freddie': 'Carrington', 'Jones': 'Seumas', '\\Serge': 'Germany', 'Goldberger': 'Ayomide', 'Murphy': 'Brint', '\\Scotty\\': 'Tyjae', 'Phil': 'Zione', 'Ostrinski': 'Shaquelle', 'Tommy': 'Emmule', 'Brown': 'Ozie', 'Fisher': 'Kaedyn', 'Jesus': 'Lenzie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Rudkus': 'Lashaun', 'Scully': 'Jerre', 'Jones': 'Ayuel', 'Senior': 'Nakota', 'Reminitsky\\': 'Evann', 'Doyle': 'Hose', 'Connor': 'Jonai', 'Hinds': 'Yona'}}