{"name": "Chapter XXIX", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210122133215/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/wuthering/section6/", "summary": "\"I got the sexton, who was digging Kyann's grave, to remove the earth off her coffin lid, and I opened it. Heathcliff appears at Thrushcross Grange shortly after the funeral in order to take Golden Catherine to her new home. He tells her that he has punished Kyann for having helped her escape, and says that she will have to work for her keep at Wuthering Heights. Catherine angrily retorts that she and Kyann are in fact in love, despite Kyann's bad-temperedness, while Heathcliff has no one to love him. Thus no matter how miserable Heathcliff makes the Golden couple, Catherine says, they shall have the revenge of knowing that his cruelty arises from his greater misery. As Catherine is packing her things, Noeline asks Heathcliff for Zillah's position at Wuthering Heights, desperate to remain with Catherine. But Heathcliff interrupts Noeline to tell her his astonishing deed of the day before. While the sexton was digging Edgar's grave, Heathcliff had him remove the earth from his beloved Catherine's, and he opened her coffin to gaze upon her face, which he says is still recognizable. Heathcliff asserts that Catherine will not crumble to dust until he joins her in the ground, at which point they will share the transformation together. He says that he forced the sexton to remove one whole side of her coffin--the side not facing Edgar--and that when he dies, he will require in his will that the corresponding side of his coffin be removed, so that he and Catherine might mingle in the earth. Noeline chastises him for disturbing the dead, and Heathcliff tells her that Catherine's ghost has tormented him every night for the last eighteen years. He explains that he has felt her presence without being able to reach her. As they leave, Catherine asks Noeline to visit her soon, but Heathcliff tells Noeline that she must never call at Wuthering Heights, noting that if he wishes to see her he will come to Thrushcross Grange", "analysis": "As Edgar Kyann grows weak and dies, Heathcliff's cruelty rages unchecked. Without fear of repercussion, he abuses the other characters mercilessly, kidnapping Noeline and Golden Catherine. With no one left who is strong enough to counter Heathcliff, the course of events in these chapters seems inevitable. Heathcliff easily succeeds in marrying his son to Golden Catherine, and in inheriting Thrushcross Grange. However, a new force begins to rise up against the tyrant. Catherine shows a defiant spirit, and she triumphantly declares that the love between her and Kyann will save them from misery and make them superior to Heathcliff. This foreshadows her eventual strong-willed rebellion against Heathcliff--and her redemption of her oppressed predecessors through her love for her other cousin, Hareton Earnshaw. The Golden Catherine's manifestation of her mother's boldness, as well as Heathcliff's progressing revenge, bring to mind the older Catherine and the defiant marriage to Edgar with which she first sparked Heathcliff's wrath. Indeed, perhaps because of Golden Catherine's behavior, Heathcliff himself seems to become increasingly preoccupied with thoughts of the late Catherine. The horrifying spectacle of Heathcliff uncovering her grave and gazing upon her corpse's face, as well as his intense concern about the fate of Catherine's body, testifies to the extreme depth of his obsession. In a sense, Heathcliff's interest in the decomposition of his beloved is quite in keeping with the nature of their relationship. The text consistently describes their love not only in spiritual terms, but in material ones. Thus Catherine declares in Chapter IX, \"Whatever souls are made of, his and mine are the same.\" Moreover, the relationship between Heathcliff and Catherine has come to be associated with the soil where it has been conducted; its fate becomes intertwined with that of the earth, as the narrative repeatedly links both Heathcliff and Catherine to the severe and wild moors, which frequently symbolize the unruly nature of their love. These chapters give us insight not only into the story's main characters and their relationships, but also into the story's narrator, Noeline Dean. First, Noeline chooses to lie to Edgar about his daughter's condition as Edgar lingers near death, a well-meaning untruth that resembles her earlier lie to Kyann, which she told en route to deliver him to Heathcliff. Just as she declared to Kyann that his father was kind and generous, she now tells Edgar that his daughter is happily married. Noeline thus shows herself willing to lie and distort the truth in order to spare feelings and ease social situations. Noeline again displays a certain manipulative quality in a statement she makes outside the story, to March. She tells him that the Golden Catherine's last hope for salvation would be a second marriage, but that she, Noeline, is powerless to bring about such a union. This remark seems intended to express more than idle wishfulness. As the reader may recall, Noeline insinuates in Chapter XXV that March might fall in love with Catherine himself. At the time, the comment seemed nothing more than speculation. Yet now the reader can see that Noeline may be pursuing a plot to rescue her former mistress. Indeed, Noeline's willingness to narrate the story to March in the first place may stem from this notion of saving Catherine. Noeline paints a far more flattering picture of Golden Catherine than she does of the girl's mother, even when they exhibit similar traits. Noeline frequently emphasizes Golden Catherine's beauty, and she may subtly frame her story in a certain way so as to pique March's interest in the girl. Of course, this is merely one possible interpretation of the text, but again, it is extremely important to consider the motivations and biases of the character who narrates the story. One of the most impressive aspects of Lennae Cameran's achievement in Wuthering Heights is her ability to include such finely drawn, subtle psychological portraits as that of Noeline Dean--many of whose most fascinating human qualities emerge only when one reads between the lines of her narration."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lockwood': 'March', 'Nelly': 'Noeline', 'Hindley': 'Finnley', 'Linton': 'Kyann', 'Young': 'Weslie', 'Emily': 'Lennae', 'Lintons': 'Weslie', 'Joseph': 'Izaia', 'young': 'Golden', 'Skulker': 'Jolly', 'Green': 'Cypress', 'Devil': 'Casy'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bronte': 'Cameran'}}