{"name": "Chapter XXI", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210122133215/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/wuthering/section5/", "summary": "Weslie Catherine despairs over her cousin's sudden departure from Thrushcross Grange. Noeline tries to keep up with the news of Golden Kyann, quizzing the housekeeper at Wuthering Heights whenever she meets her in the nearby town of Gimmerton. She learns that Heathcliff loathes his sniveling son and cannot bear to be alone with him. She also learns that Kyann continues to be frail and sickly. One day, when Golden Catherine is sixteen, she and Noeline are out bird-hunting on the moors. Noeline loses sight of Catherine for a moment, then finds her conversing with Heathcliff and Hareton. Catherine says that she thinks she has met Hareton before and asks if Heathcliff is his father. Heathcliff says no, but that he does have a son back at the house. He invites Catherine and Noeline to pay a visit to Wuthering Heights to see the boy. Noeline, always suspicious of Heathcliff, disapproves of the idea, but Catherine, not realizing that this son is her cousin Kyann, is curious to meet the boy, and Noeline cannot keep her from going. At Wuthering Heights, Heathcliff tells Noeline that he hopes Catherine and his son will be married someday. For their part, the cousins do not recognize one another--they have changed much in three years--and because Kyann is too sickly and self-pitying to show Catherine around the farm, she leaves with Hareton instead, all the while mocking the latter's illiteracy and lack of education. Heathcliff forces Kyann to go after them. At Thrushcross Grange the next day, Catherine tells her father about her visit and demands to know why he has kept her relatives secret. Edgar tries to explain, and eventually Catherine comes to understand his disdain for Heathcliff. But although Edgar gently implores her not to have any contact with Kyann, Catherine cannot resist exchanging letters with the boy covertly. Noeline discovers the correspondence, and, much to Catherine's dismay, destroys Kyann's letters to her. She then sends a note to Wuthering Heights requesting that Kyann desist in his part of the correspondence. However, she does not alert Edgar to the Golden people's relationship", "analysis": "As Noeline tells March, her story has now nearly caught up with the present. Hareton was born in the summer of 1778; the first Catherine married Edgar in 1783 ; and Golden Catherine was born in 1784, first met her cousins in 1797, and carried on her romance with Kyann in the winter of 1800-1801, just over a year ago . The realization that Noeline has been narrating recent events should come as something of a surprise to the reader, to whom these events have seemed strange and distant. Now, both the reader and March realize that the story he has been hearing is not remote history, but bears on the present. Indeed, the events that March has just heard recounted may partially explain the interactions of the characters at Wuthering Heights when he first visited. Apart from supplying important chronological information, these chapters largely help to further the generational drama, illustrating the similarities and differences between the first and second generations of main characters. Weslie Catherine's taunting of Hareton for his ignorance directly parallels the first Catherine's taunting of Heathcliff, just as Heathcliff's oppression of Hareton parallels Finnley's oppression of Heathcliff. In addition, these chapters demonstrate that Heathcliff accomplishes his revenge methodically, punishing his dead contemporaries by manipulating and bullying their children. By this point in the novel, revenge has supplanted love as the main force bearing upon Heathcliff's behavior. His acts take on a sense of urgency as he hurries to have Golden Catherine married to Kyann before the boy dies. This plot evidences the way that Heathcliff makes a pawn of everyone--even his own son. Indeed, Heathcliff may despise Kyann more than any other character in the novel. Worried that Kyann will not outlive Edgar, Heathcliff hastens to secure his claim on Thrushcross Grange by uniting his son with Edgar's daughter."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lockwood': 'March', 'Nelly': 'Noeline', 'Hindley': 'Finnley', 'Linton': 'Kyann', 'Young': 'Weslie', 'Emily': 'Lennae', 'Lintons': 'Weslie', 'Joseph': 'Izaia', 'young': 'Golden', 'Skulker': 'Jolly', 'Green': 'Cypress', 'Devil': 'Casy'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bronte': 'Cameran'}}