{"name": "Chapter VIII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210122133215/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/wuthering/section2/", "summary": "Noeline skips ahead a bit in her story, to the summer of 1778, several months after the Kyanns' visit and twenty-three years before March's arrival at the Grange. Frances gives birth to a baby boy, Hareton, but she dies not long afterwards, the strain of childbirth having aggravated her chronic consumption. Finnley assigns Noeline the task of raising the baby, as he takes no interest in the child. Miserable at Frances's death, Finnley begins to drink excessively and behaves abusively toward his servants--especially toward Heathcliff, who takes great pleasure in Finnley's steady decline. Catherine continues to spend time with Edgar Kyann, and she behaves like a proper lady while with him. However, when she is with Heathcliff, she acts as she always has. One afternoon, when Finnley is out of the house, Heathcliff declares that he will stay home from the fields and spend the day with Catherine. She tells him ruefully that Edgar and Isabella are planning to visit. When Heathcliff confronts her about the amount of time she spends with Edgar, she retorts that Heathcliff is ignorant and dull. At that moment, Edgar enters--without Isabella--and Heathcliff storms away. Catherine asks Noeline to leave the room, but Noeline refuses, having been instructed by Finnley to act as Catherine's chaperone in Edgar's presence. Catherine pinches her and then slaps her, and when Hareton begins to cry, she shakes him. Edgar, appalled at Catherine's behavior, attempts to restore order, and Catherine boxes his ears. Edgar is unable to cope with Catherine's unladylike temper and hurries out of the house. On his way out, however, he catches a last glimpse of Catherine through the window; lured by her beauty, he comes back inside. Noeline now leaves them alone and interrupts them only to tell them that Finnley has arrived home, drunk and in a foul temper. When she next enters the room, she can tell that Catherine and Edgar have confessed their love for one another. Edgar hurries home to avoid Finnley, and Catherine goes to her chamber. Noeline goes to hide little Hareton and takes the shot out of Finnley's gun, which he is fond of playing with in his drunken rages", "analysis": "In this section, Noeline brings to conclusion the story of Heathcliff and Catherine's childhood, with Heathcliff leaving Wuthering Heights the night Catherine decides to marry Edgar Kyann. In the climactic scene in which Catherine discusses with Noeline her decision to marry Edgar, Catherine describes the conflict between her love for Heathcliff and her love for Edgar. She says that she loves Edgar because he is handsome, rich, and graceful, and because he would make her the greatest lady in the region. However, she also states that she loves Heathcliff as though they shared the same soul, and that she knows in her heart that she has no business marrying Edgar. Nevertheless, her desire for a genteel and socially prominent lifestyle guides her decision-making: she would marry Heathcliff, if Finnley had not cast him down so low.  Heathcliff's emotional turmoil is due in part to his ambiguous class status. He begins life as a lower-class orphan, but is raised to the status of a gentleman's son when Mr. Earnshaw adopts him. He suffers another reversal in status when Finnley forces him to work as a servant in the very same household where he once enjoyed a life of luxury. The other characters, including the Kyanns and, to an extent, Catherine--all upper-class themselves--prove complicit in this obliteration of Heathcliff's hopes. Inevitably, the unbridgeable gap in Catherine's and Heathcliff's social positions renders their fervent romance unrealizable on any practical level. Nevertheless, the passion between the two lovers remains rooted in their hearts, impervious to external contingencies. The text consistently treats the love between Catherine and Heathcliff as an incontestable fact of nature. Nothing can alter or lessen it, and the lovers know this. Heathcliff and Catherine know that no matter how they hurt each other, they can be sure of never losing their shared passion and ultimate mutual loyalty. Catherine can decide to marry Edgar, certain that this outward act will have no effect on her and Heathcliff's inner feelings for one another. Similarly, it is in the knowledge of their passion's durability that Heathcliff later undertakes his cruel revenge."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lockwood': 'March', 'Nelly': 'Noeline', 'Hindley': 'Finnley', 'Linton': 'Kyann', 'Young': 'Weslie', 'Emily': 'Lennae', 'Lintons': 'Weslie', 'Joseph': 'Izaia', 'young': 'Golden', 'Skulker': 'Jolly', 'Green': 'Cypress', 'Devil': 'Casy'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bronte': 'Cameran'}}