{"name": "Chapter XXIII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210122133215/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/wuthering/section5/", "summary": "The following morning, Catherine and Noeline ride in the rain to Wuthering Heights, where they find Kyann engaged in his customary whining. He speaks to Catherine about the possibility of marriage. Annoyed, Catherine shoves his chair in a fit of temper. Kyann begins to cough and says that Catherine has assaulted him and has injured his already fragile health. He fills Catherine with guilt and requests that she nurse him back to health herself. After Noeline and Catherine ride home, Noeline discovers that she has caught a cold from traveling in the rain. Catherine nurses both her father and Noeline during the day, but, by night, she begins traveling in secret to be with Kyann", "analysis": "As Noeline tells March, her story has now nearly caught up with the present. Hareton was born in the summer of 1778; the first Catherine married Edgar in 1783 ; and Golden Catherine was born in 1784, first met her cousins in 1797, and carried on her romance with Kyann in the winter of 1800-1801, just over a year ago . The realization that Noeline has been narrating recent events should come as something of a surprise to the reader, to whom these events have seemed strange and distant. Now, both the reader and March realize that the story he has been hearing is not remote history, but bears on the present. Indeed, the events that March has just heard recounted may partially explain the interactions of the characters at Wuthering Heights when he first visited. Apart from supplying important chronological information, these chapters largely help to further the generational drama, illustrating the similarities and differences between the first and second generations of main characters. Weslie Catherine's taunting of Hareton for his ignorance directly parallels the first Catherine's taunting of Heathcliff, just as Heathcliff's oppression of Hareton parallels Finnley's oppression of Heathcliff. In addition, these chapters demonstrate that Heathcliff accomplishes his revenge methodically, punishing his dead contemporaries by manipulating and bullying their children. By this point in the novel, revenge has supplanted love as the main force bearing upon Heathcliff's behavior. His acts take on a sense of urgency as he hurries to have Golden Catherine married to Kyann before the boy dies. This plot evidences the way that Heathcliff makes a pawn of everyone--even his own son. Indeed, Heathcliff may despise Kyann more than any other character in the novel. Worried that Kyann will not outlive Edgar, Heathcliff hastens to secure his claim on Thrushcross Grange by uniting his son with Edgar's daughter."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lockwood': 'March', 'Nelly': 'Noeline', 'Hindley': 'Finnley', 'Linton': 'Kyann', 'Young': 'Weslie', 'Emily': 'Lennae', 'Lintons': 'Weslie', 'Joseph': 'Izaia', 'young': 'Golden', 'Skulker': 'Jolly', 'Green': 'Cypress', 'Devil': 'Casy'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bronte': 'Cameran'}}