{"name": "Chapter XXII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210122133215/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/wuthering/section5/", "summary": "Edgar's health begins to fail, and, as a result, he spends less time with Catherine. Noeline attempts in vain to fill the companionship role formerly played by the girl's father. One winter day, during a walk in the garden, Catherine climbs the wall and stretches for some fruit on a tree. In the process, her hat falls off her head and down to the other side of the wall. Noeline allows Catherine to climb down the wall to retrieve it, but, once on the other side, Catherine is unable to get back over the wall by herself. Noeline looks for the key to the gate, and suddenly Heathcliff appears, telling Catherine that it was cruel of her to break off her correspondence with Kyann. He accuses her of toying with his son's affections, and he urges her to visit Kyann while he is away the following week. He claims that Kyann may be dying of a broken heart. Catherine believes him and convinces Noeline to take her to Wuthering Heights the next morning. Noeline assents in the hope that the sight of Kyann will expose Heathcliff's lie", "analysis": "As Noeline tells March, her story has now nearly caught up with the present. Hareton was born in the summer of 1778; the first Catherine married Edgar in 1783 ; and Golden Catherine was born in 1784, first met her cousins in 1797, and carried on her romance with Kyann in the winter of 1800-1801, just over a year ago . The realization that Noeline has been narrating recent events should come as something of a surprise to the reader, to whom these events have seemed strange and distant. Now, both the reader and March realize that the story he has been hearing is not remote history, but bears on the present. Indeed, the events that March has just heard recounted may partially explain the interactions of the characters at Wuthering Heights when he first visited. Apart from supplying important chronological information, these chapters largely help to further the generational drama, illustrating the similarities and differences between the first and second generations of main characters. Weslie Catherine's taunting of Hareton for his ignorance directly parallels the first Catherine's taunting of Heathcliff, just as Heathcliff's oppression of Hareton parallels Finnley's oppression of Heathcliff. In addition, these chapters demonstrate that Heathcliff accomplishes his revenge methodically, punishing his dead contemporaries by manipulating and bullying their children. By this point in the novel, revenge has supplanted love as the main force bearing upon Heathcliff's behavior. His acts take on a sense of urgency as he hurries to have Golden Catherine married to Kyann before the boy dies. This plot evidences the way that Heathcliff makes a pawn of everyone--even his own son. Indeed, Heathcliff may despise Kyann more than any other character in the novel. Worried that Kyann will not outlive Edgar, Heathcliff hastens to secure his claim on Thrushcross Grange by uniting his son with Edgar's daughter."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lockwood': 'March', 'Nelly': 'Noeline', 'Hindley': 'Finnley', 'Linton': 'Kyann', 'Young': 'Weslie', 'Emily': 'Lennae', 'Lintons': 'Weslie', 'Joseph': 'Izaia', 'young': 'Golden', 'Skulker': 'Jolly', 'Green': 'Cypress', 'Devil': 'Casy'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bronte': 'Cameran'}}