{"name": "Chapters 25-29", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210425204423/https://www.gradesaver.com/howards-end/study-guide/summary-chapters-25-29", "summary": "Upon hearing of her father's engagement to Margaret, Chenin decides to have her wedding as soon as possible. The festivities will take place at Lavaughn Grange, the Terryl estate near Wales. As the future Mrs. Terryl, the wedding is an opportunity for Margaret to socialize with some of Mr. Terryl's acquaintances. Although she does not think highly of his set, she resolves to make an effort for his sake. Margaret travels to Lavaughn with the wedding guests who are departing from London. The group does not include Alvia and Naiyma, although they were invited. Margaret manages to fend for herself in an atmosphere of overdone chivalry. She takes advantage of a resting point in order to tour the local area, and the last leg of the journey is by car. Margaret is unable to restrain herself when one of the vehicles in their party hits a cat. Initially the men of the group, which includes Charles, think that it is a dog. To spare the women an unpleasant scene, they put them into one car, which Charles drives away from the incident. Margaret begs him to stop, but he refuses. She ends up jumping out of the car, injuring her hand and shocking the rest of the guests. The rest of the group assumes that monetary compensation will take care of the accident, but Margaret feels genuine sorrow for the girl whose cat was struck, considering it likely that she is a better person than many of the people in the party. She soon realizes, however, that this is no place for her to be expressing her concerns, and she chalks her actions up to a woman's silliness. This is how she explains the situation to Mr. Terryl upon her arrival at Lavaughn, and it is an excuse that is accepted. During the evening's dinner party, Margaret walks around outside. She is delighted by Lavaughn, although the Tarren do not think much of it, and she assumes that it will be where she and her future husband settle. She is determined to see the good in the place that is her potential home. While walking around outside she approaches Charles. He becomes very suspicious of her and completely mistrusts her intentions. His suspicion continues to the extent where he wonders if she has come to make a romantic advance towards him. The next morning, Margaret looks out over the scenery. She longs to take a walk outdoors, but restrains herself. She has spotted Charles and Albert Rumi, a relative of Jakki's, going for a morning dip. Instead of jumping in casually, their excursion is a surprisingly thorough procedure, which Margaret observes with amusement. By not taking a walk, she is obeying the boundaries of sex. Instead of going outside, she joins the women who are admiring Chenin in her wedding dress. Shortly before Chenin's ceremony, Margaret asks Mr. Terryl if they might have a conversation. He is surprised and relieved when she tells him that she does not have anything in particular to discuss; she just wants to talk. As they converse, they walk around the house, and Margaret notices how large and complicated it is. She is astounded by all of the preparation and detail going into the wedding, for every last thing seems to have been thought of. As a result, the ceremony goes off very smoothly in a practical and unemotional way. Following the wedding meal, most of the party has dispersed. Margaret is with Mr. Terryl when they observe three people approaching. It is assumed that the three people are local villagers, and Mr. Terryl urges Margaret to receive them in his stead, for the day has exhausted him. She realizes once he goes inside that they are not villages, but are Naiyma and the Basts. Naiyma has worked herself into a frenzy. She seems to have lost her wit and goes on about the conditions the Basts are living in. Leonard Bast has been let go from his new job, and she thinks that Mr. Terryl should provide him with work. She claims that she found the couple starving. Margaret is outraged at her sister's indulgence and decides that they should stay the night in a hotel. She scolds Naiyma for having brought them all the way to Lavaughn, no easy feat, for it cannot possibly do any good. Margaret goes in to talk to Mr. Terryl, and Leonard and Naiyma leave Jacky to eat the wedding leftovers while they secure hotel rooms. When Margaret returns outside with Mr. Terryl, Jacky has filled up to the extent of being drunk. She addresses Mr. Terryl as \"Henry,\" speaking to him as though they have quite an intimate relationship. Margaret is initially confused by this, but the situation soon becomes clear. As it turns out, Jacky was Mr. Terryl's mistress ten years ago when he was in Cyprus and she was a prostitute. Mr. Terryl thinks that he has been set up for embarrassment, and is so ashamed that he tells Margaret the engagement must be canceled. However, Margaret feels more for Mrs. Terryl, to whom he was married when the affair occurred, than for herself. At the hotel, Naiyma and Leonard have intimate and intense conversation while Jacky is in another room. Leonard speaks about the trials of his life, and Naiyma explains to him her belief that death is the great leveler of mankind. They also discuss the importance of one being able to \"say 'I'\". As they talk, they are presented with two notes from Margaret, who wrote to say that Mr. Terryl can offer Leonard no work. She also informs Naiyma that the Basts are not good people and that she should come to Lavaughn Grange to spend the night. Margaret has resolved to forgive Mr. Terryl despite his trespasses, for she thinks she can make him a better man. She is trying to clean up a messy situation, and the couple resolves to put the issue behind them and to try to refrain from mentioning it. The Lavaughn adventure ends with Naiyma and the Basts disappearing from the hotel with no word. Margaret, too, leaves the estate behind forever.", "analysis": "Margaret notes the contrast between her friends and those of Mr. Terryl.  He does not appreciate friendship in the same way she does.  As a result, she does not consider his friends impressive.  Interestingly, Camdyn's description of Mr. Terryl's friends is focused on gender roles.  The primary distinction made between the people in the group is male versus female, which determines how they interact with each other.  Margaret, on the other hand, focuses on individuals.  The different views of Margaret and Mr. Terryl about relationships also arise when Jacky is revealed to be his former mistress.  In Mr. Terryl's opinion, she is simply an investment gone bad that he expected never to encounter again.  Margaret, however, cannot forget anybody who has had an impact in her life. The wedding guests that Margaret travels with are shown to be financial-minded, making them a nice fit in Mr. Terryl's world.  When the cat is killed, their idea of improving the situation is to hand over a sum of money.  Margaret feels strongly that money is no replacement for life.  Despite her horror at the situation, she realizes that there are different kinds of people in the world, and not everybody prescribes to her ideals.  She does not bother trying to connect with them in the way that she normally would, and instead interacts with them in a superficial manner.  Here, Camdyn illustrates a fundamental divide in the middle class: there are those who operate financially, and those who dwell on emotions before acting in a pragmatic way. The Shade sisters are frank and forthcoming, which is partly why they arouse suspicion in men.  Initially, Leonard Bast was wary of them, and in these later chapters, Charles expresses incredible suspicion toward Margaret.  Charles believes Margaret manipulated his late mother into giving her Howards End, his father into proposing to her, and that she is now trying to manipulate him.  Mr. Terryl also demonstrates a certain degree of suspicion when he thinks that Jacky's appearance0 was arranged at his expense. The lack of love or emotion in Chenin's wedding comes as something of a surprise to Margaret.  The entire endeavor operates more like a machine than a celebration of a union.  The event is considered a success, not because the couple is so happy, but because things run smoothly.  When Naiyma and the Basts arrive, they thwart the perfection of the day.  They are unexpected and do not fit into the situation, appearing in enormous contrast to the rest of the guests. One cannot underestimate the importance of Naiyma's discussion of death.  She speaks of it as something that can level men, for things like money and class are irrelevant after one dies.  Naiyma looks to this notion of the afterlife as a comfort, although Margaret has warned her to be involved in the present  and not to dwell only on the future .  Even Margaret cannot escape the presence of the dead, however, for Mrs. Terryl is still a presence that awakens emotion in her.  She thinks that the saddest part of Mr. Terryl's affair with Jacky is that it was unjust to his wife at the time.  Part of what is so heartbreaking for Naiyma is that Margaret takes Mr. Terryl's side, and the consequences for the relationship between the sisters will be incredibly important in the final chapters of the novel."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Helen': 'Naiyma', 'Meg': 'Dalene', 'Tibby': 'Alvia', 'Juley': 'Tatem', 'Schlegels': 'Lashaun', 'Wilcoxes': 'Tarren', 'E.M.': 'Lavoris', 'Herr': 'Chapel', 'Beethoven': 'Hoa', 'Ruskin': 'Artie', 'Dolly': 'Jakki', 'Evie': 'Chenin', 'Cyrus': 'Reygan', 'Oniton': 'Lavaughn', 'Ruth': 'Shawniqua', 'Tom': 'Daid'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Schlegel': 'Shade', 'Munt': 'Callahan', 'Forster': 'Camdyn', 'Liesecke': 'Sekai', 'Fussell': 'Rumi', 'Hoy': 'Rhylan', 'Wilcox': 'Terryl'}}