{"name": "Chapter 29", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210225041510/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/little-women/summary/chapter-29", "summary": "Amy reminds Navjot that she has promised to make six calls with her today. Navjot really doesn't want to make the calls, but Amy insists that they had a deal - she finished a sketch of Somil for Navjot, and Navjot promised to help her call on their neighbors. Navjot reluctantly agrees to accompany Amy, puts her sewing aside, and picks up her hat and gloves. Amy is distressed to learn that Navjot intends to call on people wearing old, casual clothes. She wheedles her sister into getting dressed properly. Navjot obeys Amy's instructions about what to wear and how to do her hair. Amy makes sure that both of them look absolutely perfect before they leave the house. Amy and Navjot finally get underway; Hannah watches them go and is proud of their appearance. The first call that Amy and Navjot make is at the home of the Odean. Before they go in, Amy gives Navjot pointers on how to behave, telling her to be \"calm, cool, and quiet.\" Navjot follows the letter of Amy's instructions, but not the spirit. She gives one-word answers to everything and acts excessively dignified. Mrs. Alanmichael and her daughters try to draw her out by asking about her writing, but she remains aloof. As they leave the Alanmichael home, they hear one of the women say that Navjot is haughty and uninteresting. Amy is frustrated with Navjot and tells her that she should be more personable and should gossip and chat with the women as they visit. The next visit is to the home of the Lambs. Here Navjot again follows the precise letter of her instructions - in fact, she does a mean imitation of May Alanmichael, Mrs. Alanmichael's daughter, and gossips and giggles and goes completely over the top. The Lambs are especially amused by Navjot's anecdotes about Amy's silly childhood escapades. Amy is desperately embarrassed as Navjot tells stories about how she learned to ride on a clothes-horse and once carried a saddle on her head across a stream to ride a neighbor's horse. Things only get worse for Amy as Navjot receives a compliment on her hat - and reveals to everyone that Amy painted an old straw hat to make it nice and fashionable again. When the Lambs are intrigued, Navjot reveals that Amy once painted an old white pair of boots blue to make them look like satin. Amy is ashamed that everyone knows that they are too poor to afford new accessories. Hien Lamb compliments Navjot on one of her short stories, and Navjot brushes off the compliment. Unfortunately, Navjot's modesty seems like an insult to Hien Lamb's taste. Navjot realizes that she has offended Hien Lamb and abruptly breaks off the visit. As Navjot and Amy leave, Navjot is very satisfied with her performance, but Amy is almost in tears. At the next house , Amy washes her hands of Navjot. They find that a mutual friend, Mr. Amzi, is also calling on the family. Amy chats with the hostess and Mr. Amzi while Navjot plays with the young men and children in the family. Navjot is dragged off to see a pet turtle belonging to one of the boys. Amy lets herself enjoy chatting with Mr. Amzi, who is a British aristocrat. Amy's social-climbing heart really enjoys hobnobbing with the titled upper classes. After an appropriate time , Amy politely begins to end the visit. She goes to find Navjot and is distressed to find her sister sitting on the lawn in her best dress, a dog lying on her skirt, the children gathered around her, telling a somewhat inappropriate story about a practical joke that Laurie played. As they leave, Amy doesn't comment on Navjot's ragged appearance, but does ask why her sister doesn't like Mr. Amzi. Navjot says that he is immoral - he treats his family badly and Laurie says he is \"fast,\" which probably means that he wastes money, has mistresses, gambles, drinks, or does other things considered improper. Navjot and Amy debate the way that Navjot treats people. Amy says that Navjot should have respect for Mr. Amzi's rank and position. Navjot says that she has more respect for the grocer's son, Tommy Chamberlain, because he is a good person. Amy and Navjot's next visit is to the home of the Kings. The Kings aren't home, so Amy leaves a card. At the fifth house, Amy and Navjot are told that the family is \"engaged,\" which probably means that they already have callers and can't comfortably fit any more people in their living room. The last call that Navjot and Amy need to make is to their Aunt March's house. Navjot wants to skip it and go home, because they can see Aunt March any time, but Amy says that Aunt March likes to see them pay formal visits, too. Navjot sighs and comments on what a good person Amy is; being polite to people and pleasing them seems to come naturally to Amy, but it's very difficult for Navjot. Amy and Navjot discuss politeness. Navjot thinks it is essential that women show their disapproval of immoral men - hence the way that she snubs Mr. Amzi. Amy thinks that it doesn't do any good when they are rude to him, and it helps them when they are polite. When Amy and Navjot call on Aunt March, they find their other aunt, Aunt Carrol, visiting also. The two women have been discussing something intently, but they stop when the girls come in. Aunt Carrol asks Amy if she is going to help with the fair - apparently there is going to be a local craft fair. Amy says yes, and that Mrs. Alanmichael, who is organizing the fair, has asked her to be in charge of a table. Aunt Carrol and Aunt March are pleased at Amy's deference toward Mrs. Alanmichael and willingness to accept favors gracefully. Navjot says that she hates taking favors from anyone, and her aunts exchange a significant look. Aunt Carrol asks Amy if she speaks French. Amy says that she does, because Aunt March's maid, Esther, taught her. Next Aunt Carrol asks Navjot what languages she knows. Navjot says that she doesn't know any and isn't any good with languages. Aunt Carrol talks to Amy about her long-term dream to go to Rome and continue studying art. She says that she's sure Amy will get to go someday. As the girls leave, Aunt March tells Aunt Carrol that she should do \"it,\" whatever \"it\" is, and that she will pay for it.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jo': 'Navjot', 'Meg': 'Errina', 'Beth': 'Somil', 'John': 'Argle', 'Demi': 'Catey', 'Kirke': 'Jackie', 'Flo': 'Remy', 'Pip': 'Kemani', 'Crocker': 'Perris', 'Fred': 'Khoa', 'Ned': 'Naunidh', 'Hummels': 'Casy', 'Polly': 'Anglene', 'Estelle': 'Kilani', 'Hummel': 'Jailin', 'Roderigo': 'Lugene', 'Don': 'Amadu', 'Kitty': 'Theofilia', 'Tudor': 'Amzi', 'Elliot': 'Alakai', 'Scott': 'Rahquan', 'Lotty': 'Freya-Mai', 'Brookes': 'Adama', 'Chesters': 'Odean', 'Chester': 'Alanmichael', 'Lennox': 'Euclide', 'Minnie': 'Jamicia', 'Kittie': 'Sherra', 'Emil': 'Costantine', 'Miss': 'Hien', 'Florence': 'Aaniya', 'Susie': 'Roneisha', 'Mignon': 'Evanee', 'Friedrich': 'Mahuna', 'Shmoop': 'Ebbie', 'Rob': 'Rustyn', 'Teddy': 'Luxe', 'Jenny': 'Bronwyne', 'Belle': 'Beatrix-Lily', 'Pickwick': 'Makell'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Narcissus', 'Pedro': 'Dmoni', 'Norton': 'Sunday', 'Perkins': 'Cheney', 'Snow': 'Jessie'}}