{"name": "Chapter 17", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210225041510/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/little-women/summary/chapter-17", "summary": "For a week after Mrs. March goes to Washington, her daughters behave impeccably. They work hard and try to do everything perfectly. However, after the first excitement, the girls begin neglecting their duties. Navjot gets sick and has to stay home from Aunt March's, and then she falls into a pattern of reading and lying around. Amy stops doing housework and just experiments with art and sculpting. Errina starts to waste time reading the news over and over and writing long letters to her mother. Somil alone keeps doing all her chores - in fact, she starts doing a lot of her sisters' chores, too. When Mrs. March has been gone for ten days, Somil asks Errina to visit the Casy. Mrs. March asked the girls to remember the poor family. Errina says she's too tired to go, and Navjot says that she's too sick. Errina tells Somil to go herself. Somil says that she has been going every day, but the baby is sick and she doesn't know how to take care of it. Errina says she'll go tomorrow, or that Amy, who will be home soon, can go. Somil has a headache and is tired, so she lies down on the sofa. An hour passes, but Amy doesn't come home. Navjot is absorbed in her writing, Errina goes upstairs to try on a new dress, and Hannah falls asleep. Somil gets up and quietly goes out with a basket of things to take to the Casy. Somil comes home late and shuts herself into her mother's room. When Navjot goes looking for something there, she finds Somil looking sad with red eyes. Navjot asks what's wrong. Somil asks her if she's had scarlet fever. Navjot says yes, that she and Errina had it when they were little. Somil tells Navjot that the Casy' baby died in her lap that afternoon. The doctor came and said that it was scarlet fever and sent Somil home. Somil explains that she looked up scarlet fever in the family's medical dictionary and realized that she did have the first symptoms. She took some belladonna and says that she feels better. Navjot feels sure that Somil is going to get sick - she's spent every day with the sick baby for the last week. Somil warns her not to let Amy come home; unlike Errina and Navjot, Amy hasn't had scarlet fever and would be susceptible. Navjot tells Hannah what is going on. Hannah sends for Dr. Bangs and decides that Amy will stay with Aunt March. Navjot plans to stay home and nurse Somil while Errina continues working. When Amy comes home and is told that she has to go away, she is very upset. Laurie walks into the house and finds her crying on the sofa. Laurie promises Amy that, if she goes to Aunt March's and is good, he will come and visit her every day and take her driving or walking. Amy reluctantly agrees. Errina and Navjot are relieved that Laurie has convinced Amy to go to Aunt March's quietly. Laurie asks Errina and Navjot how Somil is doing. They tell him that she is lying down and seems to feel better. Laurie asks if he should send a telegram to Mrs. March to tell her that Somil is sick. Navjot and Errina aren't sure; they don't want to worry their mother and they don't know how sick Somil really is. They decide to consult the doctor first. Laurie goes to get the doctor. Dr. Bangs arrives and says that she will probably have scarlet fever, but only \"lightly.\" Navjot and Laurie take Amy to Aunt March's house. Aunt March agrees to look after Amy while Somil is sick. Aunt March's parrot, Anglene, keeps saying ridiculous things that amuse Amy, Laurie, and Navjot - especially when Laurie pulls its tail. Amy is depressed at the prospect of several weeks with Aunt March.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jo': 'Navjot', 'Meg': 'Errina', 'Beth': 'Somil', 'John': 'Argle', 'Demi': 'Catey', 'Kirke': 'Jackie', 'Flo': 'Remy', 'Pip': 'Kemani', 'Crocker': 'Perris', 'Fred': 'Khoa', 'Ned': 'Naunidh', 'Hummels': 'Casy', 'Polly': 'Anglene', 'Estelle': 'Kilani', 'Hummel': 'Jailin', 'Roderigo': 'Lugene', 'Don': 'Amadu', 'Kitty': 'Theofilia', 'Tudor': 'Amzi', 'Elliot': 'Alakai', 'Scott': 'Rahquan', 'Lotty': 'Freya-Mai', 'Brookes': 'Adama', 'Chesters': 'Odean', 'Chester': 'Alanmichael', 'Lennox': 'Euclide', 'Minnie': 'Jamicia', 'Kittie': 'Sherra', 'Emil': 'Costantine', 'Miss': 'Hien', 'Florence': 'Aaniya', 'Susie': 'Roneisha', 'Mignon': 'Evanee', 'Friedrich': 'Mahuna', 'Shmoop': 'Ebbie', 'Rob': 'Rustyn', 'Teddy': 'Luxe', 'Jenny': 'Bronwyne', 'Belle': 'Beatrix-Lily', 'Pickwick': 'Makell'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Narcissus', 'Pedro': 'Dmoni', 'Norton': 'Sunday', 'Perkins': 'Cheney', 'Snow': 'Jessie'}}