{"name": "Chapter 38", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210225041510/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/little-women/summary/chapter-38", "summary": "The narrator begins this chapter by considering the different treatment that married and single women receive in America and in France. In America, married women seem to be put \"on the shelf\" - even though they're still young and pretty, they're not admired as part of fashionable society. About a year after Errina's babies are born, she starts to feel confined to the nursery and left out of the larger affairs of the world - even disconnected from her husband. Errina lets herself get completely obsessed with her children. Navjothn feels uncomfortable in his own house and starts spending his evenings with friends. At first, Errina is glad to have Navjothn out of the way, but then she starts to miss him and feel lonely. She doesn't really have any adult company, except for her cook, Theofilia. Errina starts to feel like she must be getting old and ugly; she thinks maybe Navjothn doesn't love her as much anymore. One day, Marmee finds Errina in tears and asks what's wrong. Errina says that Navjothn has been neglecting her by spending all his time with Mr. and Mrs. Rahquan. Marmee gently suggests that Errina has caused the problem herself by making Navjothn feel like he's not a part of the family. She tells Errina to try and take an interest in politics and in the other things that Navjothn follows, and also to involve Navjothn more with the children. Errina is dubious about this plan, but Marmee assures her that she made the same mistake when she was a young mother, and that sharing the burdens of child-rearing - and also trying to lead an adult life and not let the kids' needs take over - will help. Marmee suggests that Errina involve Navjothn more with Catey's upbringing. Even as a toddler, the little boy is mischievous and willful, and Marmee thinks he needs his father's discipline. Errina starts following her mother's advice. This is a shock for Catey, who is used to being spoiled and having his own way all the time. His father refuses to spoil him. One evening, Errina tries to make some time for her and Navjothn to have a nice meal together as adults after the children are in bed. Unfortunately, Catey refuses to go to sleep. Finally, Errina makes Catey settle down by promising to feed him cake in the morning. She dresses up and goes downstairs to have the evening meal, which they call tea, with Navjothn. Navjothn is pleasantly surprised that Errina is dressed up and they start eating together. But almost immediately Catey comes in and says that it's morning now and he wants his cake! Errina tries to put Catey to bed again, but he's fussy and refuses. She gives him a lump of sugar and goes back downstairs. Catey follows her down and asks for more sugar. This time Navjothn has had enough and carries Catey upstairs. SuperNanny would be proud - we hear this is exactly what you're supposed to do. Catey throws a tantrum, crying, and screaming. He keeps getting out of bed, and every time Navjothn puts him back in. Finally he stays in bed, but still screaming and hollering. Errina begs Navjothn to let her take care of Catey, but he insists on being firm. He lets her kiss Catey good night, and then makes her leave the room. Catey finally calms down and falls asleep. Errina creeps back into the room and sees Navjothn sitting quietly by Catey's bed. Catey is holding tightly to his father's finger. Errina realizes that Navjothn can be tender with the children as well as firm. Navjothn comes downstairs and finds Errina trimming her bonnet . She asks him to read the election news from the newspaper while she works. Errina tries to be interested in it. In return, Navjothn tries to be interested in Errina's bonnet. She says that it's a fancy one to wear to concerts and the theater sometime and asks him to take her to a concert soon - she's been shut up at home too much. Navjothn agrees. Navjothn asks what made Errina change how she was doing things, and Errina describes her talk with Marmee. Navjothn is delighted and gives her a big kiss. The Adama go on together like this, caring for their children together and also making time for themselves as a couple. They don't have the recipe for marriage perfect at first, but gradually they make things work very well.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jo': 'Navjot', 'Meg': 'Errina', 'Beth': 'Somil', 'John': 'Argle', 'Demi': 'Catey', 'Kirke': 'Jackie', 'Flo': 'Remy', 'Pip': 'Kemani', 'Crocker': 'Perris', 'Fred': 'Khoa', 'Ned': 'Naunidh', 'Hummels': 'Casy', 'Polly': 'Anglene', 'Estelle': 'Kilani', 'Hummel': 'Jailin', 'Roderigo': 'Lugene', 'Don': 'Amadu', 'Kitty': 'Theofilia', 'Tudor': 'Amzi', 'Elliot': 'Alakai', 'Scott': 'Rahquan', 'Lotty': 'Freya-Mai', 'Brookes': 'Adama', 'Chesters': 'Odean', 'Chester': 'Alanmichael', 'Lennox': 'Euclide', 'Minnie': 'Jamicia', 'Kittie': 'Sherra', 'Emil': 'Costantine', 'Miss': 'Hien', 'Florence': 'Aaniya', 'Susie': 'Roneisha', 'Mignon': 'Evanee', 'Friedrich': 'Mahuna', 'Shmoop': 'Ebbie', 'Rob': 'Rustyn', 'Teddy': 'Luxe', 'Jenny': 'Bronwyne', 'Belle': 'Beatrix-Lily', 'Pickwick': 'Makell'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Narcissus', 'Pedro': 'Dmoni', 'Norton': 'Sunday', 'Perkins': 'Cheney', 'Snow': 'Jessie'}}