{"name": "Chapter 28", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210225041510/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/little-women/summary/chapter-28", "summary": "At first, Errina tries to make her home with Navjothn Narcissus a perfect domestic paradise. She's so anxious to please, however, that it's also very stressful. However, Errina and Navjothn are very happy, and they stay happy even after the honeymoon period, when their relationship has a more everyday quality. Errina goes through different cooking fits - sometimes she tries to make lots of fancy food; other times she feels economical and makes really inexpensive, frugal meals. Errina decides to try and save money by making her own jelly with the currants that grow on her bushes. She has Navjothn buy extra sugar and a bunch of little pots. One day while Navjothn is at work, Errina sets to work trying to make the currant jelly. She's never actually done it herself before - she's only watched Hannah. Somehow, she can't re-create the process. She makes a sticky fruit mess, but the jelly won't set - it remains liquid. Errina wishes she could run home and ask her mother for help, but she and Navjothn agreed a long time ago that they wouldn't bother other people with their domestic problems. At 5:00, she gives up on the jelly and sits down and cries at the kitchen table. At the beginning of their marriage, Errina told Navjothn that he should always feel free to bring friends home to dinner with him. He has taken her up on the offer today and brought his friend Mr. Rahquan - without giving Errina advance notice. When Navjothn and Mr. Rahquan arrive at the Dovecote, the house is dark and locked and looks completely inhospitable. Navjothn asks Mr. Rahquan to wait in the yard while he finds out what's wrong. Navjothn goes around back and finds Errina in the kitchen, surrounded by a sticky jelly mess, crying. The hired girl, Freya-Mai, is calmly eating bread and drinking currant wine. Navjothn asks Errina what's going on, and she explains about the jelly disaster. He laughs it off and tells her to pull herself together so they can entertain their dinner guest. Errina is horrified by the presence of Mr. Rahquan and tells Navjothn there's no way she can entertain someone. She tells Navjothn to take Mr. Rahquan over to her mother's house for dinner instead. Errina retreats to her bedroom to lament her domestic disaster on her own. When she comes downstairs later, she's horrified to discover that Navjothn and Mr. Rahquan basically had a picnic in the house. Now they've strolled away - Navjothn is walking Mr. Rahquan home. Errina longs to go and tell her mother what happened, but she's ashamed of her failure, so she keeps it to herself. She dresses up and waits for Navjothn to come home. When Navjothn comes back, both he and Errina feel like the other person should apologize first. They are polite but cold to each other. As Errina sits sewing and Navjothn looks out the window, she remembers that her mother cautioned her against waking Navjothn's temper. The Marches tend to be hot-tempered and their anger blows over quickly, but Navjothn is different - once he's angry, he's angry for a long time. Errina goes over to Navjothn and kisses him on the forehead. This is enough to break the ice, and Navjothn apologizes for laughing at her problems with the jelly. Later, Errina and Navjothn have Mr. Rahquan over for a nice dinner - at which Errina serves a wonderful meal and there are no tears anywhere! In the fall, Errina develops a different domestic problem. She and Sallie Moffat start hanging out a lot again, and Errina envies Sallie's wealth and all her nice things. Navjothn has always trusted Errina with their money, and she's never abused that trust. But now she starts buying lots of things she doesn't need. Navjothn is busy and doesn't balance the household books for a few months. When he gets to the end of the fiscal quarter, though, he needs to go over everything. Errina's most extravagant purchase is a length of silvery silk for $50. The worst part is that the silk is just a length of material; it hasn't even been made into a dress yet! Navjothn is appalled to discover how much money Errina has frittered away. He doesn't yell at her or get angry, though; he's just quietly upset, which is almost worse. Errina tries to make excuses for her behavior, talking about how difficult it is to watch Sallie spend money while she is poor. Navjothn gets very quiet and Errina is ashamed that she reproached him for their poverty when he works so hard. Because Errina has spent so much money on the silk, Navjothn can't get a new winter coat this year. The next day, Errina goes to Sallie and tells her the whole story, and asks her to buy the silk as a favor. Sallie is only too happy to help. Errina uses the money to get a new coat made for Navjothn. When it arrives, she tries it on and asks how he likes her new silk dress! Things go on happily for a while. The next summer, Laurie comes into the Dovecote on a Saturday afternoon and is greeted by Hannah, who asks him to wait downstairs. Hmm, what could be going on here? Navjot comes downstairs with a little bundle - Errina's newborn baby! She makes Laurie close his eyes while she hands him his \"nephew.\" When Laurie opens his eyes, he finds himself holding two babies instead of one! The assembled family laugh at his surprise when he realizes Errina has had twins. Navjot explains that the babies are a boy and a girl. She and Laurie discuss names - the boy is going to be called Navjothn Laurence, after his father and the Laurence family, and the girl is going to be called Margaret, after her mother and grandmother. They will call the girl Daisy so that there's no confusion. Laurie proposes calling the boy \"Cateyjohn\" so that the twins can go by \"Daisy\" and \"Catey.\" Everyone thinks this is a great idea, and the little twin Adama are known by those names from now on.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jo': 'Navjot', 'Meg': 'Errina', 'Beth': 'Somil', 'John': 'Argle', 'Demi': 'Catey', 'Kirke': 'Jackie', 'Flo': 'Remy', 'Pip': 'Kemani', 'Crocker': 'Perris', 'Fred': 'Khoa', 'Ned': 'Naunidh', 'Hummels': 'Casy', 'Polly': 'Anglene', 'Estelle': 'Kilani', 'Hummel': 'Jailin', 'Roderigo': 'Lugene', 'Don': 'Amadu', 'Kitty': 'Theofilia', 'Tudor': 'Amzi', 'Elliot': 'Alakai', 'Scott': 'Rahquan', 'Lotty': 'Freya-Mai', 'Brookes': 'Adama', 'Chesters': 'Odean', 'Chester': 'Alanmichael', 'Lennox': 'Euclide', 'Minnie': 'Jamicia', 'Kittie': 'Sherra', 'Emil': 'Costantine', 'Miss': 'Hien', 'Florence': 'Aaniya', 'Susie': 'Roneisha', 'Mignon': 'Evanee', 'Friedrich': 'Mahuna', 'Shmoop': 'Ebbie', 'Rob': 'Rustyn', 'Teddy': 'Luxe', 'Jenny': 'Bronwyne', 'Belle': 'Beatrix-Lily', 'Pickwick': 'Makell'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Narcissus', 'Pedro': 'Dmoni', 'Norton': 'Sunday', 'Perkins': 'Cheney', 'Snow': 'Jessie'}}