{"name": "Chapter 23", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210225041510/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/little-women/summary/chapter-23", "summary": "The March girls, their mother, and Hannah look after Mr. March, whom they are very excited to have at home. However, everyone seems to be waiting for something else to happen. In the afternoon, Laurie comes by. When he sees Errina, he goes down on one knee in front of her and pretends to have a lover's fit, beating his breast and tearing out his hair. Errina doesn't understand what he means, but Navjot explains that he's imitating the way Navjothn Narcissus is going to behave soon - when he proposes! Errina tells Navjot that she doesn't care about Navjothn Narcissus...much. Navjot says that the whole family can tell they are in love; she's disgusted with the whole thing. Errina tells Navjot to stop talking about it; she can't do anything herself anyway, since the man has to propose. It is the 1800s, after all. Navjot asks Errina how she would respond if Navjothn Narcissus asked her to marry him. Errina says that she would refuse, saying that she was too young to get engaged. Navjot is very pleased by this and makes Errina promise that she'll turn Navjothn down. Just then, Navjothn Narcissus comes by to get his umbrella, which he accidentally left at the Marches' house. The two sisters look startled and guilty when he comes in. He gets confused and asks to speak to Mr. March. Navjot leaves so that Errina can turn Navjothn down in private. Errina asks Navjothn to sit down and says that her mother would like to see him. Navjothn asks Errina if she's afraid of him. She says she couldn't be because he has been so kind to their father. She gives Navjothn her hand and says that she wishes she knew how to repay him. Navjothn holds Errina's hand firmly and tells her that he knows a great way for her to repay his kindness. Errina becomes flustered and bashful. Navjothn asks whether she cares for him. Instead of making the speech that she discussed with Navjot, Errina says that she doesn't know. Navjothn woos Errina and tells her how much he cares for her. She says that she's too young, and Navjothn says he's willing to wait. As they are talking, Errina looks up and catches sight of Navjothn's expression. He looks very sure of himself, and Errina is a little offended by his confidence. She starts to behave more coyly and tells him to go away and leave her alone. Navjothn is surprised and hurt, and asks whether she really means it. She says that she does. Navjothn asks Errina not to play with him, and says he's willing to wait while she sorts out her feelings, for a long time if necessary. She tells him not to think about her. Navjothn and Errina stand there looking at each other for a moment. Errina starts to feel bad about how she is treating Navjothn. Suddenly, Aunt March comes in and surprises them. Navjothn Narcissus tactfully ducks into the next room while Aunt March demands to know what's going on. Errina tells Aunt March that the visitor is Navjothn Narcissus, a friend of her father. Aunt March recognizes the name; she knows that Navjothn Narcissus is Laurie's tutor and that he is interested in Errina. Aunt March tells Errina that, if she marries Navjothn Narcissus, she will disinherit her. Errina is offended and tells Aunt March that she will marry whomever she likes. Aunt March tells Errina that it is her duty to marry a rich man and help her family. Aunt March also suggests that Navjothn Narcissus probably wants to marry her because he's heard that Aunt March is wealthy and thinks Errina, as the oldest niece, might inherit a fortune. Now Errina is really offended, and she tells Aunt March that neither she nor Navjothn would ever marry for money. She says that they're not afraid to work hard and they intend to wait and have a long engagement. Errina gets carried away describing how great Navjothn Narcissus is, how hard he works, how smart he is, and how likely he is to succeed. Apparently she does like him quite a bit! Aunt March is angry and says that she washes her hands of the affair. She tells Errina that she's not going to inherit anything from her and storms out. Navjothn comes back into the room. He tells Errina that he couldn't help overhearing what she said, and he's delighted to find out that she does care for him. Errina says she didn't know how much she cared until Aunt March started insulting him. A little bit later, it is quiet in the room. Navjot, assuming that Navjothn has left after being turned down by Errina, comes into the room to gloat with her sister. But what she sees is Errina sitting on Navjothn's knee! Navjothn asks Navjot to congratulate them. Navjot runs out of the room and tells her parents that Navjothn is acting \"dreadfully.\" Mr. and Mrs. March go downstairs to find out what's happening. They have a private conversation with Navjothn and Errina in the parlor, in which Navjothn convinces them that he has responsible plans for making a home for himself and Errina. Navjothn stays and has tea with the family. Everyone is excited except Navjot. Over the meal, the family talk about how much has happened to them this year. Navjothn says that he and Errina are going to work and wait for three years before they get married. Well, he'll do most of the working, and she'll do most of the waiting, but you get the idea. Laurie comes in with a large bouquet for Errina and congratulates the couple. Navjot assumes that Laurie, like herself, will feel un-romantic about the whole thing, but Laurie's actually very excited and says that he knew Navjothn would win Errina over. Old Mr. Laurence comes in and the family greets him. Laurie asks Navjot why she looks upset. She says she's not happy about the match, but she's trying to be polite about it. She feels like she's lost her best friend. Laurie tells Navjot that he will always be there for her. She says that's comforting. Laurie wonders where they will all be in three years' time. As the chapter ends, the entire extended family is gathered together. Mr. and Mrs. March are reliving their past. Amy is sketching Navjothn and Errina, who are sitting together. Somil is lying on the sofa, talking with old Mr. Laurence. Navjot is sitting and talking to Laurie, who is leaning on the back of her chair. It's pure domestic bliss!", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jo': 'Navjot', 'Meg': 'Errina', 'Beth': 'Somil', 'John': 'Argle', 'Demi': 'Catey', 'Kirke': 'Jackie', 'Flo': 'Remy', 'Pip': 'Kemani', 'Crocker': 'Perris', 'Fred': 'Khoa', 'Ned': 'Naunidh', 'Hummels': 'Casy', 'Polly': 'Anglene', 'Estelle': 'Kilani', 'Hummel': 'Jailin', 'Roderigo': 'Lugene', 'Don': 'Amadu', 'Kitty': 'Theofilia', 'Tudor': 'Amzi', 'Elliot': 'Alakai', 'Scott': 'Rahquan', 'Lotty': 'Freya-Mai', 'Brookes': 'Adama', 'Chesters': 'Odean', 'Chester': 'Alanmichael', 'Lennox': 'Euclide', 'Minnie': 'Jamicia', 'Kittie': 'Sherra', 'Emil': 'Costantine', 'Miss': 'Hien', 'Florence': 'Aaniya', 'Susie': 'Roneisha', 'Mignon': 'Evanee', 'Friedrich': 'Mahuna', 'Shmoop': 'Ebbie', 'Rob': 'Rustyn', 'Teddy': 'Luxe', 'Jenny': 'Bronwyne', 'Belle': 'Beatrix-Lily', 'Pickwick': 'Makell'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Narcissus', 'Pedro': 'Dmoni', 'Norton': 'Sunday', 'Perkins': 'Cheney', 'Snow': 'Jessie'}}