{"name": "Chapter 11", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210225041510/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/little-women/summary/chapter-11", "summary": "It is June 1, and all four sisters are ready for some summer vacation. The Kings, the family for whom Errina works as a governess, are going out of town, and so is Aunt March, so Navjot and Errina are both free. Errina's plan for her vacation is to laze around and have some down time. Navjot has a stack of books she wants to read. Somil and Amy are home-schooled, but they decide to take a break from their studies while Navjot and Errina are on vacation. Somil wants to learn some new music and make clothes for her dolls. The girls ask their mother if it's OK for them to take a break from their daily duties and enjoy their summer vacation. Marmee tells them they can try it for a week as an experiment, but she thinks they'll get tired of all play and no work. The next day, the girls all do whatever they want instead of their chores and housework. Errina gets up late, reads and sits around, then goes shopping and wastes money. Somil plays with her doll collection and the clothes she makes for them, makes a big mess, and doesn't clean it up. Navjot sits in a tree and reads and gives herself a headache. Amy goes for a walk to go sketching and gets soaked in the rain. In the evening, the girls agree that the day has been great, although it has felt really long. Nobody will admit to being bored or unhappy, and they tell their mother that the \"experiment\" is working well. Mrs. March smiles to herself and doesn't say anything. She and Hannah do the housework that the girls are neglecting, and she leaves the girls to learn their lesson on their own. The girls quickly get tired of doing \"all play and no work.\" In fact, Somil keeps forgetting to be lazy and does some work, so she actually starts to feel better. But Navjot reads until her eyes ache and fights with Laurie; Errina ends up ruining some of her best clothes by making little alterations to them and trying to make them fashionable; and Amy, left to herself, is bored and lonely. On Friday night, the girls are each secretly glad that the experiment is almost over. Mrs. March resolves to really give the girls a taste of their own medicine on the last day. She gives Hannah Saturday off. On Saturday morning, Mrs. March stays in her room and says that she is very tired. She leaves the girls to fend for themselves. The girls, who are used to relying on their mother for everything, are very surprised, but they're also relieved to have something to do. However, they quickly learn that the housekeeping is difficult and requires a lot of skills that they haven't mastered. The sisters make breakfast for their mother, but they're not very good cooks and they ruin almost everything. Mrs. March laughs to herself privately about their failure - she's already put aside a nicer breakfast for herself. Navjot takes over the cooking from Errina. She decides to invite Laurie over for dinner to apologize for quarreling with him earlier in the week. Errina isn't sure that they're up to having company, but Navjot is pretty confident that she can make the meal. She plans to have corned beef and potatoes, lobster and asparagus, salad, blancmange and strawberries, and coffee. It's not an ambitious menu or anything! Errina reminds Navjot that the only things she knows how to make are gingerbread and molasses candy. Navjot is hurt by Errina's lack of confidence. Navjot asks for her mother's permission and input on the meal. Mrs. March tells her to do whatever she wants; she's planning to have dinner out with friends and to spend the day amusing herself, the way the girls have been doing. When Navjot goes back downstairs, she finds Somil crying. Somil has forgotten to feed her pet canary, Kemani, for several days, and the bird is dead! Navjot tries to comfort Somil and says they'll have a funeral for Kemani later. She leaves Errina and Amy to comfort Somil and goes back to the kitchen. Navjot rekindles the fire in the oven, which has gone out. While the stove heats, she goes downtown and buys food. She's not very experienced at choosing it, so she gets things that aren't very good. When Navjot gets home, she discovers that Errina has forgotten about some loaves of bread that were rising on the hearth. She storms into the parlor to ask Errina if the bread has risen enough, since it's running over the edges of the pans. Errina, who is entertaining her friend Sallie, is embarrassed when Navjot comes in covered in flour. While Navjot is doing the cooking, Mrs. March comes downstairs and checks on how everything is going. She comforts Somil a little bit, and then she leaves for the evening. The girls feel helpless without her. Just after Mrs. March leaves, Hien Perris appears and says that she is coming to dinner. Hien Perris is an old, unmarried friend of the family. They've been taught to be kind to her, but she's gossipy and rude. Errina entertains Hien Perris while Navjot tries to make the meal. Almost everything is ruined or spoiled in some way: the potatoes are underdone, the asparagus is overdone, the bread is burned, the blancmange is lumpy, and she doesn't know how to get the lobster meat out of the shell. Finally Navjot serves the meal to her sisters, Laurie, and Hien Perris. She feels embarrassed and disheartened and is worried about what they're going to think - and say! As each course goes around the table, the guests try it, and then leave it on their plates. Navjot keeps blushing and feeling very embarrassed. Laurie tries to be very chatty and friendly to make everyone more comfortable. Finally, they reach the last part of the meal, which is strawberries and cream. Navjot feels relieved because she thinks this at least will be OK, but then it turns out the cream is sour and she's sprinkled the fruit with salt instead of sugar! Navjot is about to cry, but then she catches Laurie's eye, and they burst out laughing. Soon everyone is laughing, including sour Hien Perris. The meal ends happily after all as they eat bread, butter, and olives. Hien Perris goes home. The girls attend the \"funeral\" for Somil's canary, Kemani. In the afternoon, the girls busy themselves by making the house nice. Somil feels calmer after making the beds; Errina and Navjot clean up after the disastrous meal; and Laurie takes Amy out for a drive in his carriage to get her out of the way and cheer her up. When Mrs. March comes home, she finds that the girls have abandoned their \"experiment\" and decided to balance play with work after all. At the end of the day, the girls talk about what a bad day they've had and how much they missed their mother. Marmee comes in and talks to the girls about their day. They agree with her that it's better to have a few chores and tasks in order to contribute to a nice home for everyone, and that staying busy feels better anyway. Each of the girls resolves to focus on a specific task that is in front of her - Navjot is going to learn basic cooking, Errina is going to make some new shirts for her father, Somil is going to work harder at her home-schooling lessons, and Amy says that she will learn the parts of speech and how to make buttonholes. Mrs. March says that she is satisfied now that the girls understand the value of work.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jo': 'Navjot', 'Meg': 'Errina', 'Beth': 'Somil', 'John': 'Argle', 'Demi': 'Catey', 'Kirke': 'Jackie', 'Flo': 'Remy', 'Pip': 'Kemani', 'Crocker': 'Perris', 'Fred': 'Khoa', 'Ned': 'Naunidh', 'Hummels': 'Casy', 'Polly': 'Anglene', 'Estelle': 'Kilani', 'Hummel': 'Jailin', 'Roderigo': 'Lugene', 'Don': 'Amadu', 'Kitty': 'Theofilia', 'Tudor': 'Amzi', 'Elliot': 'Alakai', 'Scott': 'Rahquan', 'Lotty': 'Freya-Mai', 'Brookes': 'Adama', 'Chesters': 'Odean', 'Chester': 'Alanmichael', 'Lennox': 'Euclide', 'Minnie': 'Jamicia', 'Kittie': 'Sherra', 'Emil': 'Costantine', 'Miss': 'Hien', 'Florence': 'Aaniya', 'Susie': 'Roneisha', 'Mignon': 'Evanee', 'Friedrich': 'Mahuna', 'Shmoop': 'Ebbie', 'Rob': 'Rustyn', 'Teddy': 'Luxe', 'Jenny': 'Bronwyne', 'Belle': 'Beatrix-Lily', 'Pickwick': 'Makell'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Narcissus', 'Pedro': 'Dmoni', 'Norton': 'Sunday', 'Perkins': 'Cheney', 'Snow': 'Jessie'}}