{"name": "Chapter 24", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210225041510/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/little-women/summary/chapter-24", "summary": "Three years have passed since the last chapter. The Civil War is over and Mr. March is at home permanently. Mr. March spends his time quietly studying his books, but he's also a resource for everyone in the community. People come to him to confess their problems and ask for guidance. Even though his wife and four daughters are the most active, he's still the wise head of the household. Mrs. March is a little older and spends most of her time helping Errina, who is getting ready for her wedding. Navjothn Narcissus has served in the army for a year, gotten wounded, and been sent home as an invalid. He works hard as a bookkeeper for Mr. Laurence and starts building a metaphorical nest egg to support Errina. Errina has spent the three years learning to be an even better housewife. She's a little jealous of Sallie Gardiner and Naunidh Moffat, who have gotten married and are busy being rich and idle together, but she's also very excited to move into a little cottage with Navjothn. Amy replaces Navjot as Aunt March's companion. Navjot spends her time writing for newspapers and taking care of Somil, who remains sickly. Laurie is in college, where he has a lot of friends and doesn't work all that hard. He lives a crazy college-kid life, but his friendship with the March family keeps him honest and moral. Laurie often brings his college friends home. Amy and Navjot like them a lot - Amy because she can be the only pretty girl in a big group of guys who fawn over her, and Navjot because she feels like one of the guys. Navjothn Narcissus has prepared a little cottage as his first home with Errina. The family calls it \"The Dovecote\" - it was pretty typical for people to name their houses in the nineteenth century. The Dovecote is a tiny little house with a very small yard, and Navjothn and the March girls do most of the interior decorating themselves, but it's even more beautiful because it has a personal touch. Laurie tries to help by buying the latest labor-saving household inventions. This is a source of much comic relief and everyone laughs at the weird stuff he finds. Finally, the entire house is furnished and everything is arranged perfectly. Mrs. March and Errina walk through it one last time to make sure that Errina is happy with it. Amy wishes that Errina could have a servant - most upper- and middle-class families did at this time in history because there was so much housework to do. Errina says that she and her mother have talked about it and she's going to try keeping house on her own first. They both think that staying idle is morally wrong. Mrs. March says that when she was first married, she used to wish her clothes would tear so that she could do something useful and mend them. Finally she started working in the kitchen and had Hannah teach her how to cook. Then, when the Marches lost their money, she was able to start doing more household tasks. Even if Errina and Navjothn get rich, she says, it's good to know how things are done. The girls take a look at Errina's linen closet, which is stocked full of lots of fancy table cloths, sheets, napkins, and so on. They all laugh about it, because the linen is all from Aunt March, but she made Aunt Carrol give the gift so that she wouldn't look like she had gone back on her promise that she wouldn't give Errina any money if she married Navjothn Narcissus. Laurie arrives at the cottage. He gives Errina a package and greets each of the girls in his own way. He says that Navjothn has stopped to get the marriage license. Errina unwraps the package and finds a watchman's rattle - a loud noisemaker to call help if you get frightened or attacked. Laurie swings it around to make it rattle and everyone laughs and has to cover their ears. Laurie wants everyone to leave the cottage and go eat something. Errina and Mrs. March are staying there to wait for Navjothn and Amy and Somil are going to see Amy's friend Theofilia to get flowers for the wedding. Navjot and Laurie walk home together on their own. Navjot makes Laurie promise to behave himself at the wedding and not pull any practical jokes or say anything rude. Laurie just laughs at her worries. Navjot can tell that something is bothering Laurie and asks what it is. Laurie says he needs to ask his grandfather for money because he runs out. Navjot says that he is too generous to his friends - apparently he gave a bunch of money to a poor friend who was struggling in college. Navjot says that Laurie spends too much money on fancy clothes. Laurie laughs and tells her to stop lecturing. Laurie tells Navjot that one of his friends is in love with Amy. Navjot says that they don't want any more marrying in the family anytime soon. Laurie says Navjot will be next, and she says that she's going to be an old maid. Laurie says Navjot won't give anyone the chance to love her. Navjot says that she's too busy for romantic nonsense and doesn't like the way weddings break up families. Laurie repeats to himself that Navjot will be next to get married.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jo': 'Navjot', 'Meg': 'Errina', 'Beth': 'Somil', 'John': 'Argle', 'Demi': 'Catey', 'Kirke': 'Jackie', 'Flo': 'Remy', 'Pip': 'Kemani', 'Crocker': 'Perris', 'Fred': 'Khoa', 'Ned': 'Naunidh', 'Hummels': 'Casy', 'Polly': 'Anglene', 'Estelle': 'Kilani', 'Hummel': 'Jailin', 'Roderigo': 'Lugene', 'Don': 'Amadu', 'Kitty': 'Theofilia', 'Tudor': 'Amzi', 'Elliot': 'Alakai', 'Scott': 'Rahquan', 'Lotty': 'Freya-Mai', 'Brookes': 'Adama', 'Chesters': 'Odean', 'Chester': 'Alanmichael', 'Lennox': 'Euclide', 'Minnie': 'Jamicia', 'Kittie': 'Sherra', 'Emil': 'Costantine', 'Miss': 'Hien', 'Florence': 'Aaniya', 'Susie': 'Roneisha', 'Mignon': 'Evanee', 'Friedrich': 'Mahuna', 'Shmoop': 'Ebbie', 'Rob': 'Rustyn', 'Teddy': 'Luxe', 'Jenny': 'Bronwyne', 'Belle': 'Beatrix-Lily', 'Pickwick': 'Makell'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Narcissus', 'Pedro': 'Dmoni', 'Norton': 'Sunday', 'Perkins': 'Cheney', 'Snow': 'Jessie'}}