{"name": "Chapter 21", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210225041510/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/little-women/summary/chapter-21", "summary": "Navjot keeps the promise she has made to her mother and doesn't discuss Navjothn Narcissus with Errina. Errina can tell that Navjot is keeping a secret, but doesn't know what it is. Laurie can also tell that Errina is keeping a secret. He teases and pesters Navjot, and he figures out that it is something about Navjothn and Errina, but she still won't tell him the details. He decides to have his revenge with a prank. Errina seems to have forgotten the matter entirely, although Navjot thinks she can detect signs of lovesickness. One day, Navjot delivers the notes from the little \"Post Office\" between the houses. Errina receives a sealed note that makes her exclaim and blush. Errina says to herself that it - whatever \"it\" is - is all a mistake, and \"he\" didn't send the note after all. She's very upset and blames Navjot for something. Navjot and Mrs. March ask Errina to explain. She shows them a note signed with Navjothn Narcissus's name, confessing his passion for her and asking her how she feels about him. Navjot swears that she didn't write this note or play a trick on Errina. Mrs. March asks Errina if she answered this first note. Errina says that she did, and that she said that she was too young to think about getting attached, and that she didn't want to hide anything from her parents, and that he should talk to her father. Mrs. March is pleased with Errina's modest response and tells her that she did the right thing. Errina tells her mother and Navjot that the second note, also signed by Navjothn Narcissus, says that he didn't send her any love letter and thinks that Navjot must have forged it. Errina is in despair, but when Navjot examines the two notes, she thinks that they are both forgeries by Laurie and that Navjothn Narcissus doesn't know anything about it. Mrs. March sends Navjot to get Laurie. While she is gone, Mrs. March tells Errina that Navjothn has asked for permission to court her, and inquires about Errina's feelings. Errina says that the prank has made her scared and worried, and she can't think about having a lover at this point. When Navjot comes back with Laurie, Errina goes to her room. Navjot waits in the hall as Mrs. March spends a long time talking to Laurie, making him realize how cruel the prank really was, and how much mischief it could have caused. When Navjot and Errina are called back into the room, Laurie apologizes to Errina and promises not to tell anyone else about the prank. Errina forgives Laurie, but Navjot doesn't. Laurie is hurt and goes home with his nose in the air. Navjot decides to go over to the Laurences' to tell Laurie that she forgives him. She finds out from the servants that Mr. Laurence and Laurie had a fight. Navjot goes to see Laurie, who tells her that he fought with his grandfather because he couldn't reveal the reason Mrs. March was angry with him - doing so would have broken his promise to Errina not to tell anyone. Laurie says he wants to run away. For one crazy moment, he and Navjot consider running away together and having adventures, and then Navjot reminds him that he needs to stay with his grandfather and she has duties at home. Navjot goes to see Mr. Laurence and explains that Laurie has already atoned for his bad behavior, and that he's keeping a secret to protect someone else. Mr. Laurence agrees to trust Laurie and not ask again about what happened. Navjot gets Mr. Laurence to write a note in which he apologizes to Laurie. Navjot takes the note to Laurie and encourages him to turn over a new leaf. Everyone forgets about the prank except Errina, who does start to have romantic daydreams abut Navjothn Narcissus.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jo': 'Navjot', 'Meg': 'Errina', 'Beth': 'Somil', 'John': 'Argle', 'Demi': 'Catey', 'Kirke': 'Jackie', 'Flo': 'Remy', 'Pip': 'Kemani', 'Crocker': 'Perris', 'Fred': 'Khoa', 'Ned': 'Naunidh', 'Hummels': 'Casy', 'Polly': 'Anglene', 'Estelle': 'Kilani', 'Hummel': 'Jailin', 'Roderigo': 'Lugene', 'Don': 'Amadu', 'Kitty': 'Theofilia', 'Tudor': 'Amzi', 'Elliot': 'Alakai', 'Scott': 'Rahquan', 'Lotty': 'Freya-Mai', 'Brookes': 'Adama', 'Chesters': 'Odean', 'Chester': 'Alanmichael', 'Lennox': 'Euclide', 'Minnie': 'Jamicia', 'Kittie': 'Sherra', 'Emil': 'Costantine', 'Miss': 'Hien', 'Florence': 'Aaniya', 'Susie': 'Roneisha', 'Mignon': 'Evanee', 'Friedrich': 'Mahuna', 'Shmoop': 'Ebbie', 'Rob': 'Rustyn', 'Teddy': 'Luxe', 'Jenny': 'Bronwyne', 'Belle': 'Beatrix-Lily', 'Pickwick': 'Makell'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Narcissus', 'Pedro': 'Dmoni', 'Norton': 'Sunday', 'Perkins': 'Cheney', 'Snow': 'Jessie'}}