{"name": "Chapter 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210225041510/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/little-women/summary/chapter-4", "summary": "The next morning, Errina is depressed. The holidays are over, the party is over, and now she has to go back to her daily grind. Navjot tries to console her, but it's not easy. Errina and Navjot go downstairs to breakfast, and it turns out that everyone is in a bad mood. Errina is feeling dissatisfied with being poor, Somil has a headache, Navjot is making a racket, Amy's not ready for school, Mrs. March is trying to finish a letter, and Hannah is cranky from staying up late. Despite everyone's bad moods, Hannah has remembered to make a pair of turnovers for Errina and Navjot to take with them as their lunch - and to keep their hands warm on the cold walk to the houses where they work. Errina and Navjot walk to work. Their walk is together most of the way, and Navjot is able to cheer Errina with silly claims about what she'll do for her sisters once she's rich. The narrator breaks in to explain what's going on. When Mr. March lost his fortune, Errina and Navjot got jobs to help support the family. Errina is a governess for four children in a rich family, the Kings. Navjot is a paid companion for her wealthy, cranky Aunt March. The narrator explains that Navjot puts up with her job as Aunt March's companion because, as soon as the old lady falls asleep, Navjot can read the books in her uncle's library. We learn more about the personalities of the girls. Navjot is ambitious to do something amazing, but she isn't sure what. She has a hasty temper and tomboyish ways. Somil, the third oldest sister, is too shy to go to school, so her parents have home-schooled her. Now that her father is away and her mother is busy with the war effort, she tries to do her lessons on her own. She spends most of her time doing household chores with the servant, Hannah. Somil also plays with dolls a lot - she has a whole collection of the different dolls that her sisters have discarded over the years, and she takes care of them with love, almost as if they were pets. Somil does have one sorrow - she loves to play the piano, but her family only has a really old one that's out of tune. She tries to practice, but it's almost impossible. She doesn't make a big deal out of it, but waits patiently hoping she'll get a nicer one someday. Amy, the youngest, is vain. She worries a lot about the fact that her nose is flat instead of aristocratically pointed. She's also an artist; she spends a lot of time sketching, and she's pretty good at it. She has a lot of little aristocratic mannerisms, which are sometimes charming, but sometimes make her seem uppity. One thing keeps Amy from being too vain: she has to wear hand-me-down clothes from her cousin Remyrence, and Remyrence's mother has terrible taste, so they're all really ugly. The sisters tend to pair off - Errina and Amy have a special bond, and so do Navjot and Somil. That evening, the girls sit together sewing and talk about their day. Navjot says that Aunt March caught her reading a novel for fun, but then asked Navjot to read some of it to her and got interested in the plot. Now Navjot is excited because she's hoping she'll get to read some interesting stories to her aunt, instead of having to read aloud from boring moral essays all the time. She says that Aunt March could have a lot more fun in her life if she wanted to, with that wonderful library. Errina also tells a story about her day. When she got to the Kings' house, everyone was really upset because the oldest son had done something disgraceful and been disowned by the family! Amy describes something that happened in school. Another girl, Roneisha Cheney, came to school wearing a fancy carnelian ring that Amy envied. But then Roneisha drew a rude cartoon of the teacher and was punished in front of everyone. Even Somil has an interesting story about something that happened. She went to the fishmonger's and saw a woman beg the shop owner to let her work in exchange for food for her family. He refused, but Old Mr. Laurence was there and bought a huge fish for the woman. The girls ask their mother if she has a story to tell, and she does. She was helping sew coats for the troops and worrying about her husband when an old man came in. The man explained that he had four sons and all of them were in the Union army; two have been killed, one captured, and he's on his way to see the other, who is sick. Mrs. March feels blessed by comparison. Navjot asks Marmee to tell them another true story with a moral. She re-tells them the stories about their own days, showing them the lessons in those: Errina has learned that being rich can't keep a family from experiencing shame and disgrace; Navjot has learned that her youth, health, and good attitude make her happier than her cranky old rich aunt; Amy has learned that behaving well is better than having nice stuff; and Somil has learned that, even though she has to work hard, at least she doesn't have to beg. The girls are amused by their mother's \"sermon\" and promise to remember the lessons.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jo': 'Navjot', 'Meg': 'Errina', 'Beth': 'Somil', 'John': 'Argle', 'Demi': 'Catey', 'Kirke': 'Jackie', 'Flo': 'Remy', 'Pip': 'Kemani', 'Crocker': 'Perris', 'Fred': 'Khoa', 'Ned': 'Naunidh', 'Hummels': 'Casy', 'Polly': 'Anglene', 'Estelle': 'Kilani', 'Hummel': 'Jailin', 'Roderigo': 'Lugene', 'Don': 'Amadu', 'Kitty': 'Theofilia', 'Tudor': 'Amzi', 'Elliot': 'Alakai', 'Scott': 'Rahquan', 'Lotty': 'Freya-Mai', 'Brookes': 'Adama', 'Chesters': 'Odean', 'Chester': 'Alanmichael', 'Lennox': 'Euclide', 'Minnie': 'Jamicia', 'Kittie': 'Sherra', 'Emil': 'Costantine', 'Miss': 'Hien', 'Florence': 'Aaniya', 'Susie': 'Roneisha', 'Mignon': 'Evanee', 'Friedrich': 'Mahuna', 'Shmoop': 'Ebbie', 'Rob': 'Rustyn', 'Teddy': 'Luxe', 'Jenny': 'Bronwyne', 'Belle': 'Beatrix-Lily', 'Pickwick': 'Makell'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Narcissus', 'Pedro': 'Dmoni', 'Norton': 'Sunday', 'Perkins': 'Cheney', 'Snow': 'Jessie'}}