{"name": "Chapter 32", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210225041510/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/little-women/summary/chapter-32", "summary": "Marmee tells Navjot that she is anxious about Somil, who seems depressed and preoccupied. Navjot says that Somil isn't a little girl anymore - she's eighteen and a woman, and probably has her own adult dreams and desires now. Marmee tells Navjot that she is very comforting and supportive as an adult daughter. Navjot admits that she is best at hard work and coping with crises; she's not graceful or elegant like Amy. Navjot promises her mother that she will try to find out what Somil is worrying about. Marmee realizes that Navjot has problems too, but Navjot says those can wait. Navjot watches Somil for a while and thinks about her. One day, she sees how Somil reacts to Laurie shouting out a greeting as he goes by - Somil blushes and even starts tearing up! She decides that Somil must be secretly in love with Laurie. Navjot thinks about how she is the only sister who isn't getting romantic - Errina is married, Amy's nearly engaged, and Somil seems to be in love. Everyone seems to think that Laurie is falling for Navjot, but Navjot hates it when people suggest this. When Laurie went to college, he got interested in one girl after another, but these were always just little infatuations that died away really fast. Now he hints that he's in love with one particular girl, but he won't say who. He studies hard to try and make this mysterious lady proud of him. Now Navjot convinces herself that Laurie is especially kind to Somil and that the two of them might pair off. Navjot decides that she needs to get herself out of the way so that Laurie can fall in love with Somil without being distracted. She can't figure out where she could go. Sitting on the old sofa, Navjot begins to think about how to handle the situation. Usually, when she wants to be alone to think, she uses a prickly old cushion as a barricade. Tonight, she forgets to put it down, and Laurie drops onto the sofa beside her. Navjot tries to make Laurie go and talk to Somil, but Laurie wants her to pay attention to him after his week of studying. Navjot brings up Hien Randal, the latest college girl on whom Laurie's had a crush. He laughs and says she's engaged to someone else. Navjot says that at least that will stop Laurie from wasting money sending her flowers. Laurie says that the girl he wants to send flowers wouldn't like or accept them. Navjot tells Laurie to stop flirting. Laurie says it's harmless and he wishes Navjot would flirt, too, but then he takes it back and says he likes it that she is straightforward. In fact, Laurie says, he doesn't like really flirtatious girls; he thinks they are un-feminine. Navjot is glad that he still likes modest girls and tells him to devote himself to one of them. Laurie asks if she means it and she says that she does. However, she tells him to finish college before pursuing a romance. Laurie plays with the tassel on Navjot's apron. Navjot orders him to leave her alone and go play some music to entertain her, and jokes that he never wanted to be tied to anyone's apron strings. He says that depends on who is wearing the apron. Navjot chases him off with the prickly pillow and leaves the room until he goes home. That night, Navjot lies awake thinking for a long time. Just before she falls asleep, she hears Somil crying. Navjot goes to Somil's bedside and asks her what is wrong. Somil won't tell her and says there is no cure for her problem. Navjot stays with Somil until they both fall asleep. In the morning, Navjot tells Marmee that she wants to go away and live somewhere else for the winter. She feels cooped up at home, she says, and wants to experience the world and have adventures. Marmee asks Navjot where she will go. Navjot says that she will go to New York and be a governess for the two children of their friend Mrs. Jackie, who runs a boarding house. She'll also do domestic tasks, like sewing. Marmee is surprised that Navjot wants to serve in a boarding house. Navjot says that it's honest work and she'll have time to write. Marmee suspects that there are other reasons Navjot wants to leave. Navjot says that Laurie is getting too fond of her. Marmee asks Navjot if she cares for Laurie in return. Navjot says she doesn't, and that she also doesn't think they're suited for one another. Marmee agrees and is relieved. Marmee also asks Navjot about Somil. Navjot says that she thinks she's figured out Somil's problem, but that Somil still doesn't want to talk about it. The family discuss Navjot's plan and agree on it. They write to Mrs. Jackie, who is only too happy to have Navjot work for her. When Navjot breaks the news to Laurie, he takes it well and doesn't tease or joke. He says he's turned over a new leaf. Navjot asks Somil to look after Laurie while she's gone. In his parting words to Navjot, Laurie tells her that leaving won't do any good - he's fixated on her and plans to go and fetch her if necessary. Creepiness factor: moderate.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jo': 'Navjot', 'Meg': 'Errina', 'Beth': 'Somil', 'John': 'Argle', 'Demi': 'Catey', 'Kirke': 'Jackie', 'Flo': 'Remy', 'Pip': 'Kemani', 'Crocker': 'Perris', 'Fred': 'Khoa', 'Ned': 'Naunidh', 'Hummels': 'Casy', 'Polly': 'Anglene', 'Estelle': 'Kilani', 'Hummel': 'Jailin', 'Roderigo': 'Lugene', 'Don': 'Amadu', 'Kitty': 'Theofilia', 'Tudor': 'Amzi', 'Elliot': 'Alakai', 'Scott': 'Rahquan', 'Lotty': 'Freya-Mai', 'Brookes': 'Adama', 'Chesters': 'Odean', 'Chester': 'Alanmichael', 'Lennox': 'Euclide', 'Minnie': 'Jamicia', 'Kittie': 'Sherra', 'Emil': 'Costantine', 'Miss': 'Hien', 'Florence': 'Aaniya', 'Susie': 'Roneisha', 'Mignon': 'Evanee', 'Friedrich': 'Mahuna', 'Shmoop': 'Ebbie', 'Rob': 'Rustyn', 'Teddy': 'Luxe', 'Jenny': 'Bronwyne', 'Belle': 'Beatrix-Lily', 'Pickwick': 'Makell'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Narcissus', 'Pedro': 'Dmoni', 'Norton': 'Sunday', 'Perkins': 'Cheney', 'Snow': 'Jessie'}}