{"name": "Chapter 12", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210225041510/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/little-women/summary/chapter-12", "summary": "On a day in July, Somil is delivering the \"mail\" from the little \"Post Office\" in the hedge between the March and Laurence houses. This batch of mail includes a small bunch of flowers for Mrs. March from Laurie, a translation of a German song by Mr. Narcissus for Errina , and two letters, a hat, and a book for Navjot. Navjot unfolds and reads the first letter. It is from her mother and commends her for her efforts to keep her temper and learn to be a calmer person. The letter makes her tear up happily, because she thought that nobody had noticed. Navjot unfolds and reads the second letter. It is from Laurie, telling her that some English boys and girls about their age, the Vaughns, are going to be visiting him. Laurie invites Navjot and her sisters to come to a picnic with them tomorrow. The girls ask their mother if they can attend the picnic and she agrees. They talk about what it will be like. Navjot tells Errina that there are four Vaughns, Kate, Khoa, Frank, and Grace. Kate is a little older than Errina, Khoa and Frank are twins of Navjot's age, and Grace is a little girl around Amy's age. Navjot and Errina talk about what they will wear to the picnic. Navjot convinces Somil to come to the picnic despite her extreme shyness. Amy comes in and shows the mail that she received - a box of chocolates and a picture. Somil has received a letter from Mr. Laurence asking her to come over and play the piano for him. The girls spend the rest of the day doing extra chores so that they will be free to attend the picnic tomorrow. Overnight, each of the girls makes extra preparations for the picnic. Errina has the hair around her face in curling papers, Navjot has slept wearing face cream , Somil slept with her favorite doll to apologize for leaving it behind all day, and Amy slept with a clothespin on her nose because she wants to reshape it. In the morning, the girls dress for the picnic and watch the preparations next door. The notice several other people they know, including Sallie Gardiner and Naunidh Moffat, arriving also. They also notice that one of the Vaughn boys is on crutches. The March girls are ready to go. Errina is distressed to learn that Navjot is planning to wear the silly hat Laurie sent her. Laurie introduces the March girls to the Vaughns on the lawn in front of their houses. Everyone notices that Kate Vaughn is kind of stuck-up. Somil feels compassion for Frank, the sickly twin. Amy and Grace, the two little girls, hit it off well. The party sets off for the picnic site in several boats. Navjot and Laurie row one boat, while Mr. Narcissus and Naunidh row the other. Khoa Vaughn paddles around in a little boat of his own making mischief. Soon they arrive at Longmeadow, where a tent has been pitched and a croquet ground prepared. They start by playing a game of croquet. Frank, Somil, Amy, and Grace, who are too unwell, too shy, or too young to play, sit and watch. The others divide into two teams: Mr. Narcissus, Errina, Kate, and Khoa on one team, and Laurie, Sallie, Navjot, and Naunidh on the other. The English play well, but the Americans play better. At one point, Navjot is ahead of Khoa, who is close behind her. He goes over to look at his croquet ball and cheats by pushing it through the wicket. Navjot accuses Khoa of cheating and he denies it. There's a lot of banter about Brits versus Yankees. Navjot starts to get really angry, but takes some time by herself looking for her croquet ball to cool down. Navjot manages to get ahead in the game again and, in the end, she wins for her team. Laurie and Errina both privately congratulate Navjot on keeping her temper. Navjot says that she is still pretty angry. Next, everyone lends a hand making preparations for lunch. The meal is jolly and fun, even though there are insects in the food and the table keeps wobbling and spilling things. Navjot and Laurie sit together and share a plate. Laurie asks Navjot what they should do next. Navjot says they should play a quiet game until the afternoon sun cools off a little. She tells Laurie to ask Kate to suggest the game, out of politeness to the guests. Kate suggests a game that she calls \"Rig-marole.\" One person starts telling a story and then breaks off at an exciting point. The next person continues the story and does the same thing. Kate orders Mr. Narcissus to start. Mr. Narcissus begins the story and describes a lonely knight on a quest who falls in love with a captive princess. Kate continues the story and makes it dramatic and sensational. Naunidh takes a turn telling the story, and his narration is action-packed and exciting. Next Errina tells part of the story, giving it a creepy, Gothic feel. Navjot starts to take up the story and make it comical, but when she pauses to take a breath, Khoa jumps in and turns it into a story about pirates. Sallie is next and doesn't know what to say. She adds some mermaids and a fairy-tale feel. Amy tells a little of the story, introducing a little goosegirl and making it more like a fable. Laurie jumps in and tries to tie up most of the loose ends in the story - he brings several murdered knights back to life and reunites the first knight with the princess. Then he turns to Frank to finish. Frank says that he's not playing. Somil is hiding behind Navjot because she is too shy to take a turn, and Grace is asleep, so that's as far as the story goes. Next, they decide to play Truth. They draw lots, and whoever is chosen has to answer three questions put by the group truthfully. Laurie is first. In answer to his friends' questions, he says that his grandfather and Napoleon are his heroes, Errina is the prettiest girl there, and Navjot is his favorite. Navjot is next. She admits that a quick temper is her worst fault, that her greatest desire is to be a genius, and that the virtues she most admires in a man are courage and honesty. Khoa is next. Navjot and Laurie gang up on him; Navjot makes him admit that he cheated at croquet, and Laurie makes him admit that he took his part of the story out of The Sea-Lion. He also says, in response to Sallie's question, that he thinks England is perfect. Sallie is next. She claims in a flirtatious way that she's not a flirt, says that she hates spiders and rice pudding, and that she loves dancing and French gloves. Next the group play Authors, which is a card game kind of like Go Fish, in which the cards have pictures of famous authors and you try to collect sets of them. While the others play, Errina watches Kate sketch and Mr. Narcissus lies near them, sort of reading a book. Kate and Errina, who are the two oldest girls there, chat about their circumstances. Kate is patronizing and snobby when she discovers that Errina works as a governess. Mr. Narcissus intervenes and defends the hard-working character of the American woman. Mr. Narcissus tutors Errina in German. Even though Kate is a much more correct reader of German, Errina has more of a feel for the musical quality of the language and for the poetic form. Kate leaves Mr. Narcissus and Errina alone, deciding that she doesn't need to chaperone a mere governess. Errina and Mr. Narcissus talk about their respective jobs as teachers. Mr. Narcissus says that there's no place like America for workers. Errina asks Mr. Narcissus what he will do after Laurie goes to college next year. Mr. Narcissus says that he will enlist as a solider. Errina says that she's glad Mr. Narcissus is going to serve his country. Mr. Narcissus says that he's alone in the world and nobody cares whether he lives or dies anyway. Errina says that the Laurences and Marches all care. Meanwhile, Amy and Grace are talking about riding. Grace, as an upper-class English girl, goes riding a lot and has her own pony. Amy rides \"Ellen Tree,\" which is a low-hanging branch on the family's apple tree. Sometimes Navjot puts a saddle on the tree branch and Amy pretends to ride it. Close by, Somil and Frank are talking. They don't have much in common, but Somil lets Frank talk about the differences in hunting between England and America, and they end up discussing buffaloes. They play some more games, and at sunset they take down the tent and row their boats back home. On the way back, Naunidh tries to flirt with Errina, who is too sweet and proper to flirt back. As the March girls return home, Kate says that American girls are quite nice when you get to know them, and Mr. Narcissus agrees.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jo': 'Navjot', 'Meg': 'Errina', 'Beth': 'Somil', 'John': 'Argle', 'Demi': 'Catey', 'Kirke': 'Jackie', 'Flo': 'Remy', 'Pip': 'Kemani', 'Crocker': 'Perris', 'Fred': 'Khoa', 'Ned': 'Naunidh', 'Hummels': 'Casy', 'Polly': 'Anglene', 'Estelle': 'Kilani', 'Hummel': 'Jailin', 'Roderigo': 'Lugene', 'Don': 'Amadu', 'Kitty': 'Theofilia', 'Tudor': 'Amzi', 'Elliot': 'Alakai', 'Scott': 'Rahquan', 'Lotty': 'Freya-Mai', 'Brookes': 'Adama', 'Chesters': 'Odean', 'Chester': 'Alanmichael', 'Lennox': 'Euclide', 'Minnie': 'Jamicia', 'Kittie': 'Sherra', 'Emil': 'Costantine', 'Miss': 'Hien', 'Florence': 'Aaniya', 'Susie': 'Roneisha', 'Mignon': 'Evanee', 'Friedrich': 'Mahuna', 'Shmoop': 'Ebbie', 'Rob': 'Rustyn', 'Teddy': 'Luxe', 'Jenny': 'Bronwyne', 'Belle': 'Beatrix-Lily', 'Pickwick': 'Makell'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Narcissus', 'Pedro': 'Dmoni', 'Norton': 'Sunday', 'Perkins': 'Cheney', 'Snow': 'Jessie'}}