{"name": "Chapter 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210225041510/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/little-women/summary/chapter-3", "summary": "Errina goes looking for Navjot, who is doing one of her favorite things - sitting in the attic garret, eating apples, and reading. Errina shows Navjot their invitation to a New Year's Eve dance at Mrs. Gardiner's tomorrow evening. The girls talk about what they will wear. Because their family doesn't have much money, each of them only has one dress that's nice enough, and those aren't that nice - they're poplin, which is a kind of cotton, instead of silk. Errina has kept her clothes nice, but Navjot has a burned patch in the back of her gown and she ruined her only pair of gloves with lemonade. This doesn't bother her, but Errina insists that Navjot has to have nice gloves so that she can dance. Finally the girls agree that they will each wear one of Errina's good gloves and carry one of Navjot's stained ones, because they can't afford to get Navjot a new pair. Once all this is settled, Errina goes off to accept the invitation. The next evening, there's a bustle as the two older girls get ready for the party and their younger sisters help them. Errina wants some curls around her face, so they wrap her hair in papers and Navjot uses a pair of hot tongs to pinch it. This is the nineteenth-century version of a curling iron. Unfortunately. Navjot waits too long and burns the hair right off! Errina is upset, but the little girls comfort her and Amy arranges a ribbon in her hair to hide the burned patches. After a few last touches, both girls are dressed but uncomfortable. Errina's high heels pinch her feet and Navjot's hairpins stick into her head. Mrs. March sees the girls off at the door and tells them to have a good time. The girls arrive at Mrs. Gardiner's house, primp just a little bit more in front of the mirror in her dressing room, and then they're ready. Errina, who is more proper than her sister, agrees to help Navjot try to behave well by raising her eyebrows if her sister does anything wrong and nodding if she's doing OK. The girls head downstairs to the small party. They're greeted by Mrs. Gardiner and her six daughters. Errina is good friends with Sallie Gardiner and starts having a good time. Navjot, who doesn't have many interests in common with most of the girls, hangs out against the wall, hiding the burned spot in her dress and feeling awkward. She wants to go talk about skating with some boys in the next room, but Errina won't let her. Eventually Navjot is left alone while Errina dances. Errina's feet ache from the tight shoes. Navjot ducks into a corner behind a curtain to hide and finds the Laurence boy there already. She's about to run away when he asks her to stay. At first Navjot and the boy make awkward conversation, but then they remember the time they talked over the fence once before and they become more natural. The boy asks Navjot to call him \"Laurie,\" a nickname based on his last name. His first name is Theodore, but he doesn't like it. Navjot finds out that Laurie has traveled abroad and asks him a lot of questions about Switzerland and France. She asks him to speak French for her, and he uses it as an opportunity to complement Errina, which pleases Navjot. Navjot studies Laurie so that she will be able to describe him to her sisters. His features are fine and his hands and feet are small, plus he's very polite, so he seems somewhat feminine. Navjot fishes to find out how old Laurie is. She discovers that he's her own age, almost sixteen. She also discovers that he doesn't want to go to college. To change the subject, Navjot suggests that Laurie go and dance. He asks her to be his partner, and she has to refuse because of the burned part in the back of her dress. Laurie suggests that he and Navjot dance in the hall where nobody will see them. They do, and she has a lot of fun, especially because he teaches her a new dance move. Navjot and Laurie sit on the stairs to catch their breath after the dance. Errina comes to find Navjot, obviously upset about something. Navjot follows Errina into a side room, where Errina collapses on the sofa and confesses that she has sprained her ankle because of the ridiculous high heels she was wearing. The girls aren't sure what to do; they can't walk home now, as they were planning, but they're not sure they can afford to hire a carriage, or that one will be available. Navjot wants to ask Laurie's help, but Errina refuses, thinking it wouldn't be proper. While Errina waits on the sofa, Navjot goes to get her a cup of coffee. Unfortunately, Navjot blunders around, going into all the wrong rooms, spilling the coffee down the front of her dress, and staining the glove she borrowed from Errina. Laurie tactfully intervenes and fetches coffee and ice for both girls. While they are chatting, Hannah arrives to pick up Errina and Navjot. When she discovers that Errina's ankle is sprained, she scolds the girl, and Errina starts to cry. Navjot goes off on her own to try and hire a carriage, but can't seem to find the help she needs. Once again Laurie intervenes and offers to take them home in his carriage - it will be easy, since he lives next door to them! They set off in the carriage. Laurie rides on top with the coachman so that the girls and Hannah can have the inside to themselves. They talk about the dance; both girls say they had a good time until Errina's accident. After the girls arrive home and say goodbye to Laurie, their little sisters want to hear all about the dance. Navjot has brought some candies and desserts home for them, which Errina thinks is rude. The night ends with Navjot reflecting that they have just as much fun as \"fine ladies\" even though they don't have a lot of money.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jo': 'Navjot', 'Meg': 'Errina', 'Beth': 'Somil', 'John': 'Argle', 'Demi': 'Catey', 'Kirke': 'Jackie', 'Flo': 'Remy', 'Pip': 'Kemani', 'Crocker': 'Perris', 'Fred': 'Khoa', 'Ned': 'Naunidh', 'Hummels': 'Casy', 'Polly': 'Anglene', 'Estelle': 'Kilani', 'Hummel': 'Jailin', 'Roderigo': 'Lugene', 'Don': 'Amadu', 'Kitty': 'Theofilia', 'Tudor': 'Amzi', 'Elliot': 'Alakai', 'Scott': 'Rahquan', 'Lotty': 'Freya-Mai', 'Brookes': 'Adama', 'Chesters': 'Odean', 'Chester': 'Alanmichael', 'Lennox': 'Euclide', 'Minnie': 'Jamicia', 'Kittie': 'Sherra', 'Emil': 'Costantine', 'Miss': 'Hien', 'Florence': 'Aaniya', 'Susie': 'Roneisha', 'Mignon': 'Evanee', 'Friedrich': 'Mahuna', 'Shmoop': 'Ebbie', 'Rob': 'Rustyn', 'Teddy': 'Luxe', 'Jenny': 'Bronwyne', 'Belle': 'Beatrix-Lily', 'Pickwick': 'Makell'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Narcissus', 'Pedro': 'Dmoni', 'Norton': 'Sunday', 'Perkins': 'Cheney', 'Snow': 'Jessie'}}