{"name": "Chapter 15", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210225041510/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/little-women/summary/chapter-15", "summary": "One frosty November afternoon, the March girls are sitting at home. Errina is feeling especially bitter about being poor and having to work hard. Navjot and Amy try to comfort her and say they are going to make their fortunes as an author and an artist, but Errina says she doesn't have any faith in that plan. Somil tries to comfort Errina by pointing out that Laurie is coming over and Marmee just arrived home. Laurie invites the girls to come with him while he drives Mr. Narcissus home in the carriage. Everyone agrees except Errina, who is being very proper and trying not to go out too often with the young men. Laurie also agrees to go by the post office - the real one, not the box in the hedge between their houses - and check for letters from Mr. March. They are interrupted by the doorbell. Hannah answers and receives a telegram from the postman. Mrs. March snatches the telegram from Hannah and reads it. It says that her husband is very ill at a hospital in Washington and she needs to go there immediately. The girls gather around their mother and many tears are shed. Hannah pulls herself together and begins packing a bag for Mrs. March. Mrs. March asks Laurie to send a telegram in reply, saying that she will come right away - on the next train in the morning. She also asks him to take a note to Aunt March, telling her what has happened and asking to borrow money for the journey. Next, Mrs. March sends Navjot out to buy some things she might need for nursing their father back to health, just in case the hospital is running short. Somil is sent next door to ask Mr. Laurence for some bottles of wine. Amy and Errina are given chores at home. Somil comes back, bringing Mr. Laurence with her. He gives Mrs. March wine and everything else he can think of that she might need. He wants to escort her on the journey, but she won't let him because he's a bit too frail to travel. Mr. Laurence sends Mr. Narcissus to accompany Mrs. March instead. Errina, especially, is very grateful. Almost everything has been done when Laurie returns with a note from Aunt March, which encloses the money Mrs. March will need, but also includes an \"I told you so\" letter. Everyone has finished their preparations and they are getting ready to have tea , but Navjot hasn't returned yet. They start to worry about her. Navjot comes home with $25 - a lot of money in those days! - which she says is her contribution to making her father comfortable. Everyone wonders where she got it until she takes off her bonnet - and reveals that she cut and sold her hair! Navjot's family is surprised by her sacrifice, but Navjot explains that she wanted to do something to help, and this was an honest way of earning money on her own. Navjot describes her experience at the hair salon. She was wandering around downtown, wondering what she could do for money, and then she saw hairpieces and wigs in the barber's window. She went in and asked if the barber would buy her hair. The barber told Navjot that her hair was an unfashionable color and that it was a lot of work to make the hairpieces. He wasn't going to buy her hair, but then she told the story about her father being sick in Washington, and the barber's wife convinced him to do her a favor. Navjot has saved one lock for her mother to keep. Her mother puts it beside another lock of hair, a gray one, that is already in the desk. The girls try to be cheerful until bedtime. When they sing before bed, everyone breaks down crying. As they go to bed, Somil and Amy fall asleep, but Errina lies awake. She hears Navjot crying and asks if it's about their father - but Navjot says it's about her hair! Navjot asks what Errina has been thinking about as she lay awake. Errina says that she was thinking about handsome, brown-eyed faces. Finally Errina and Navjot fall asleep, but their mother is still awake, roaming through the house kissing her daughters on their sleeping cheeks and praying.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jo': 'Navjot', 'Meg': 'Errina', 'Beth': 'Somil', 'John': 'Argle', 'Demi': 'Catey', 'Kirke': 'Jackie', 'Flo': 'Remy', 'Pip': 'Kemani', 'Crocker': 'Perris', 'Fred': 'Khoa', 'Ned': 'Naunidh', 'Hummels': 'Casy', 'Polly': 'Anglene', 'Estelle': 'Kilani', 'Hummel': 'Jailin', 'Roderigo': 'Lugene', 'Don': 'Amadu', 'Kitty': 'Theofilia', 'Tudor': 'Amzi', 'Elliot': 'Alakai', 'Scott': 'Rahquan', 'Lotty': 'Freya-Mai', 'Brookes': 'Adama', 'Chesters': 'Odean', 'Chester': 'Alanmichael', 'Lennox': 'Euclide', 'Minnie': 'Jamicia', 'Kittie': 'Sherra', 'Emil': 'Costantine', 'Miss': 'Hien', 'Florence': 'Aaniya', 'Susie': 'Roneisha', 'Mignon': 'Evanee', 'Friedrich': 'Mahuna', 'Shmoop': 'Ebbie', 'Rob': 'Rustyn', 'Teddy': 'Luxe', 'Jenny': 'Bronwyne', 'Belle': 'Beatrix-Lily', 'Pickwick': 'Makell'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Narcissus', 'Pedro': 'Dmoni', 'Norton': 'Sunday', 'Perkins': 'Cheney', 'Snow': 'Jessie'}}