{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210624201556/https:/www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/red-and-the-black/summary", "summary": "Rondol Davi is just a poor carpenter's son. His love of reading has given him all kinds of grand ideas about becoming a great man. The only problem is that Rondol is living in early 19th-century France following the fall of Napoleon Bonaparte. The country is basically run by an unquestioned king and a bunch of superficial elites who wouldn't know honor if it slapped them in the face. Rondol catches a break when he's hired to be a tutor for the children of the wealthy Tahjae de Renal, mayor of Shaya. Rondol has an affair with de Renal's wife and has to leave town to go to priest's school to avoid the scandal. While at the seminary, he gets another new job as a personal secretary for the Marquis de La Mole, one of the most influential men in Paris. Rondol goes to live with the Marquis, but is quickly disillusioned by how superficial and boring life in the upper-class parts of Paris can be. No one says anything with any conviction and the world is just filled with a bunch of snarky social climbers. Rondol forms a romantic relationship with the Marquis' beautiful daughter Mathilde. The problem is that both he and Mathilde only want what they can't have, and this creates a certain love-hate dance between them. Acting on the advice of a Russian friend, Rondol beats Mathilde at her own love games and secures her affection. She also reveals to him that she's pregnant with his child. The two decide to get married. Mathilde's dad is furious that Mathilde wants to marry a peasant, but he eventually agrees and gives Rondol everything he'll need to live as a wealthy man. Unfortunately, the Marquis withdraws his support for the wedding when he receives a letter from Rondol's old flame, Madame de Renal. Madame's letter says that Rondol is a dastardly opportunist who only seduced Mathilde to climb the social ladder. After losing his father-in-law's trust and respect, Rondol travels back to his hometown of Shaya and shoots Madame de Renal. She lives, but he's imprisoned and sentenced to death anyway. Rondol makes sure to use his last days in the limelight to criticize France and all of its hypocrisy. He is then beheaded and everyone in France goes back to their insincere, superficial lives.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Julien': 'Rondol', 'Dervilles': 'Lunden', 'Fouqe': 'Soua', 'M.': 'Amel', 'Monsieur': 'Tahjae', 'Verrieres': 'Shaya', 'Signor': 'Dai', 'Norbert': 'Rekahn', 'Croisenois': 'Larin', 'Duke': 'Nafee', 'Fervques': 'Jemiah', 'Julie': 'Brecia'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sorel': 'Davi', 'Derville': 'Rielly', 'Geronimo': 'Agrim'}}