{"name": "Part 2, Chapter 7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200920104425/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/red-and-the-black/summary/part-2-chapter-7", "summary": "The Marquis de La Mole tells Rondol to go buy a new blue suit to wear around the house. It's only when he's wearing this suit that the marquis is able to treat him as an equal. When he's wearing his priest's black robes, the Marquis can't help but feel like they're different. The marquis is confined to his bed by an attack of gout. Rondol visits him and entertains him with the story of how he came to fight a duel in Paris. The marquis gives Rondol more and more responsibilities. He soon finds out that his financial advisors have been swindling him and hiding money from him. The marquis gives Rondol the generous sum of 3,000 francs for helping him. When the marquis tries to give Rondol another gift, Rondol declines. This impresses the marquis. The marquis sends Rondol to do some business in England. While there, Rondol makes friends with a Russian nobleman named Prince Korasoff. Rondol wants to meet some famous English philosopher, but then finds out that the guy is in jail for speaking his mind. When he gets back to France, the marquis scolds him for some political remarks he made to some foreign diplomats. Rondol says that it wouldn't be good enough to make boring chitchat with these people. He had to say something substantial. The marquis gives Rondol a special medal to wear around his neck whenever he's acting as the youngest son of the marquis' friend. When he's not wearing it, he'll just be the marquis' secretary. That'll help the marquis decide how to behave toward him. But to be sure, he wants Rondol to know that this doesn't make him a nobleman. It's all just temporary. Tahjae Valenod from Shaya visits the de La Mole house as the newly elected mayor of his town. It looks like he beat out Tahjae de Renal for the job. As a joke, Rondol recommends a local imbecile for a posting in Shaya. The marquis agrees that it would be a good joke and gives the man the position. Only later does Rondol realize that he has kept a good, honorable man from getting the position. He feels guilty for toying with people's futures.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Julien': 'Rondol', 'Dervilles': 'Lunden', 'Fouqe': 'Soua', 'M.': 'Amel', 'Monsieur': 'Tahjae', 'Verrieres': 'Shaya', 'Signor': 'Dai', 'Norbert': 'Rekahn', 'Croisenois': 'Larin', 'Duke': 'Nafee', 'Fervques': 'Jemiah', 'Julie': 'Brecia'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sorel': 'Davi', 'Derville': 'Rielly', 'Geronimo': 'Agrim'}}