{"name": "Part 1, Chapter 8", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200920104425/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/red-and-the-black/summary/part-1-chapter-8", "summary": "The chambermaid Elisa finds out that she's going to inherit some money. She hopes that this money will give her the freedom she needs to marry Rondol. Her local priest, Father Chelan is happy about this. But he's sad to find out that Rondol isn't interested. Father sits Rondol down and tells him that he needs to think carefully about becoming a priest. He knows Rondol is ambitious and he's worried that Rondol will do whatever it takes to become rich. That's why he's worried that Rondol is going to compromise on his holy values in order to flatter and make friends with powerful men. Father Chelan can see through Rondol's phony belief in the church. He wants Rondol to stay way from the priesthood. Meanwhile, Madame de Renal realizes that Elisa has been very depressed lately, in spite of the money she's just inherited. Elisa tells Madame about Rondol refusing her. Madame feels bad, but also is secretly pleased. She still promises Elisa that she'll try to convince Rondol to marry the girl. The narrator tells us that Madame only does this because she loves the pleasure of hearing Rondol reject Elisa over and over. It's only after this encounter that she starts to wonder if she's in love with Rondol. The mayor needs to leave for a few days on business. While he's gone, Madame asks the workmen to construct a walkway on her property. She relishes the opportunity to spend the next couple of days with Rondol, with both of them directing the workers. In other words, she likes having Rondol temporarily replace her husband as man of the house. Rondol and Madame start hunting butterflies together and reading about them in books. They finally have something they can talk about. Neighbors notice that Madame has started paying more attention to her wardrobe. A cousin of Madame de Renal's, named Madame Rielly, visits the de Renal house. The two spend a lot of time together, and Rielly recognizes that Madame is happier than usual. Rondol often spends time with the two women as they hang out beneath a tree. One evening, his hand accidentally brushes against Madame de Renal's. She quickly pulls hers away. Rondol decides that he must find a way to touch her hand without this happening.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Julien': 'Rondol', 'Dervilles': 'Lunden', 'Fouqe': 'Soua', 'M.': 'Amel', 'Monsieur': 'Tahjae', 'Verrieres': 'Shaya', 'Signor': 'Dai', 'Norbert': 'Rekahn', 'Croisenois': 'Larin', 'Duke': 'Nafee', 'Fervques': 'Jemiah', 'Julie': 'Brecia'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sorel': 'Davi', 'Derville': 'Rielly', 'Geronimo': 'Agrim'}}