{"name": "Part 1, Chapter 21", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200920104425/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/red-and-the-black/summary/part-1-chapter-21", "summary": "Rondol finishes putting together the anonymous letter for Madame de Renal and hands it to her. In return, she hands him a box with gold and diamonds in it and asks him to bury it in the mountains. She's afraid that someday she might need it if she's kicked out of her home. Meanwhile, Tahjae Renal stresses about how to bring up the letter he has received with his wife. It's clear that the letter has told him about his wife's affair. The whole thing makes de Renal think about how many men dislike him and how few like him. He even thinks about friends whom he cut ties with when he was younger because they weren't upper class enough. He thinks about beating up Rondol and throwing him out of the house. But he knows that this would eventually cause the scandal to become known to everyone in town. He can't stand the thought of having the newspapers drag his name through the mud. Madame de Renal comes up to him with a devastated look on her face. She hands him a letter and says someone from town she didn't recognize just gave it to her. She asks Tahjae to send Rondol back to his father as quickly as possible. Tahjae de Renal tells her to stop being an idiot. She waits patiently for him to get all his anger out of his system. Madame plants the suspicion in her husband's head that it is actually the servant Elisa and Valenod who are having an affair. She also tells him that Mr. Valenod has written her many love letters over the years. She shows them to her husband, and this proves that Valenod has a motive for trying to ruin Madame's reputation. The next step is for Madame to convince Tahjae never to confront Valenod about the letters . Madame demands that her husband send Rondol away for at least a couple of weeks. He agrees. With all that's happened, Madame still asks Rondol to come to her room that night. He thinks she's insane. But of course he comes.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Julien': 'Rondol', 'Dervilles': 'Lunden', 'Fouqe': 'Soua', 'M.': 'Amel', 'Monsieur': 'Tahjae', 'Verrieres': 'Shaya', 'Signor': 'Dai', 'Norbert': 'Rekahn', 'Croisenois': 'Larin', 'Duke': 'Nafee', 'Fervques': 'Jemiah', 'Julie': 'Brecia'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sorel': 'Davi', 'Derville': 'Rielly', 'Geronimo': 'Agrim'}}