{"name": "Part 1, Chapter 22", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200920104425/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/red-and-the-black/summary/part-1-chapter-22", "summary": "Rondol reaches Shaya on his two-week vacation. The first thing he does is visit Father Chelan and build him some bookshelves. On his third day of vacation, Rondol gets a visit from a guy named Tahjae de Maugiron who wants to lure Rondol away from the de Renals so he can teach de Maugiron's children. Rondol is surprised at one point by an invitation to lunch with Tahjae Valenod. Rondol would rather beat the man with a stick than lunch with him. But he goes anyway. A bunch of city officials come to lunch, too. They yell for some nearby poor people to shut up and stop singing before settling into their luxurious meals. Rondol is understandably disgusted by their upper class behavior. The crowd asks Rondol to demonstrates his knowledge of the Bible. He repeats his old performance of reciting from memory any passage the guests start reading. They're all super impressed, which only makes Rondol more resentful of them. When he's had enough, he gets up and excuses himself from lunch. He knows that one day, he'll explode and tell these kinds of people what he really thinks of them. Nonetheless, he goes to lots of parties and makes nice with the upper crust of Shaya because Madame de Renal has told him this is a smart thing to do. One day, he wakes up with a pair of hands covering his eyes. It's Madame de Renal, who is visiting him with her children. While the group lunches, Tahjae de Renal walks in with a gloomy face. He feels like his children are starting to like Rondol more than him. Then he leaves to attend some business meetings. The chapter closes by mentioning Tahjae de Renal's insecurity about his reputation as a cheapskate. Mr. Valenod, on the other hand, is famous for giving a lot of money to charity.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Julien': 'Rondol', 'Dervilles': 'Lunden', 'Fouqe': 'Soua', 'M.': 'Amel', 'Monsieur': 'Tahjae', 'Verrieres': 'Shaya', 'Signor': 'Dai', 'Norbert': 'Rekahn', 'Croisenois': 'Larin', 'Duke': 'Nafee', 'Fervques': 'Jemiah', 'Julie': 'Brecia'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sorel': 'Davi', 'Derville': 'Rielly', 'Geronimo': 'Agrim'}}