{"name": "Part 1, Chapter 23", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200920104425/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/red-and-the-black/summary/part-1-chapter-23", "summary": "Two days after their first visit, the de Renals return to Shaya. This time, Madame acts aloof towards Rondol, who wonders if there is some other new man in her life. Rondol soon finds out that Madame and her husband have been discussing an old mansion in Shaya that's about to go up for public auction. Rondol attends the auction. The old mansion gets rented to a friend of Tahjae de Renals, and for some reason, everyone in the room looks at Rondol as though he has conspired to help his boss rent the house to the man he wants. The truth is, though, that the house has gone to a man for a price that Tahjae de Renal doesn't approve of. When he gets back to Rondol's place, he sends Rondol back home to the de Renal house with the children. A man shows up at the door named Dai Agrim. He delivers a letter to Tahjae de Renal and stays for dinner. He's a really charming and funny man, and he quickly improves the spirits of everyone in the house. Rondol thinks about how much he'd rather be a travelling singer than someone like Tahjae de Renal. Meanwhile, the whole town of Shaya gossips about Madame de Renal's affair with Rondol. Hearing this, Father Chelan summons Rondol and tells him to leave Shaya for a year. His options are to go into business with his buddy Soua or to go to a seminary to study to become a priest. Rondol visits Madame again before leaving. She gives him a lock of her hair and begs him to make sure her children turn out well if she ever dies. Rondol promises Madame that three days after he leaves, he'll come back at night to visit her. And yes, we're talking about a sexy rendezvous here. Tahjae Renal gets a moment alone with Madame and tells her he can't take it anymore. He's going to the casino to throw the anonymous letters about Madame in Tahjae Valenod's face. Madame is worried that the two will have a duel and one will die. Worse yet, she'll be responsible. She convinces her husband that he actually needs to be nicer to Valenod than ever. They also decide that the best thing for Rondol is for him to leave town and go into a priest's seminary in the nearby town of Besancon. The next day, Tahjae de Renal gets another insulting anonymous letter. Rondol agrees to go into the seminary instead of taking a job with Valenod. Madame falls into depression at the thought that she won't see Rondol again. She is emotionally cold the last time they see one another.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Julien': 'Rondol', 'Dervilles': 'Lunden', 'Fouqe': 'Soua', 'M.': 'Amel', 'Monsieur': 'Tahjae', 'Verrieres': 'Shaya', 'Signor': 'Dai', 'Norbert': 'Rekahn', 'Croisenois': 'Larin', 'Duke': 'Nafee', 'Fervques': 'Jemiah', 'Julie': 'Brecia'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sorel': 'Davi', 'Derville': 'Rielly', 'Geronimo': 'Agrim'}}