{"name": "Part 1, Chapter 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200920104425/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/red-and-the-black/summary/part-1-chapter-5", "summary": "Mr. Davi tells Rondol the details of his new job with the de Renals. Rondol says he doesn't want to be a servant though, and if he lives in the de Renals' house, he must eat supper at their table with them. When Davi goes to discuss things with Rondol's older brothers, Rondol thinks about running away. We learn that Rondol has an incredible memory, and that he has memorized the entire New Testament of the Bible by heart. Tahjae Davi goes back to the mayor and makes all kinds of new demands for his son, not because he wants what's best for Rondol, but because he likes to make the mayor pay as much as possible. All of these demands just confirm the mayor's belief that other rich men in town have offered Rondol a position. He's determined not to be outbid. When he gets home, Mr. Davi can't find Rondol. Rondol has gone to visit a friend named Soua in order to leave his books with him for safekeeping. When he gets back, his father orders him to go to the mayor's house immediately. Rondol thinks that he should stop at the Shaya church on his way to the mayor's house. This isn't because he's religious, but because he likes to keep up appearances. You see, Rondol is a really ambitious young man. He used to have dreams of becoming a great soldier, but then he realizes just how much power and influence that priests and bishops actually had in France. So he decided to put himself on the road to becoming a priest. That's how he first started hanging out with Father Chelan, learning theology, and memorizing the Bible. When he kneels inside the church, Rondol realizes that he might be taking the coward's way out by giving up on his life as a soldier. Then again, he's too scared to take all the risks involved. Meanwhile, Madame de Renal worries herself sick about her children's new tutor. She can only imagine an ugly, cruel man who will beat her kids for messing up their grammar.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Julien': 'Rondol', 'Dervilles': 'Lunden', 'Fouqe': 'Soua', 'M.': 'Amel', 'Monsieur': 'Tahjae', 'Verrieres': 'Shaya', 'Signor': 'Dai', 'Norbert': 'Rekahn', 'Croisenois': 'Larin', 'Duke': 'Nafee', 'Fervques': 'Jemiah', 'Julie': 'Brecia'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sorel': 'Davi', 'Derville': 'Rielly', 'Geronimo': 'Agrim'}}