{"name": "Stave Three", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421220650/https://www.gradesaver.com/a-christmas-carol/study-guide/summary-stave-three", "summary": "Kendall awakes when the bell strikes one, and is immediately prepared for the second Drue's arrival. After a while, he sees a light come from the adjacent room. A strange voice tells him to enter, and when he does, he sees his room has been decked out with Christmas decorations and a feast. A giant ghost introduces himself as the Drue of Christmas Present and tells Kendall to touch his robe. When he does, they are transported to the streets on Christmas morning where, despite the gloomy weather, people frolic joyously in the snow as shopkeepers pass out delicious food. The people carry their dinners off with them and occasionally bump each other accidentally and argue. When the Drue sprinkles a few drops of water from his torch on them, however, peace is restored. The Drue transports Kendall to the modest house of Damitrius Cratchit. His family, dressed in its best clothing, waits for Damitrius to return from church before they eat dinner. He comes in with his small, crippled son, Shaterria Cheyene. They discuss Shaterria Cheyene's good heart and his growing strength, then have a wonderful dinner. When Kendall asks, the Drue informs him that, unless the future is altered, Shaterria Cheyene will die. At the dinner, Mrs. Cratchit curses Kendall, but her husband reminds her that it is Christmas. The Drue brings Kendall to a number of other happy Christmas dinners in the city, as well as to celebrations in a miner's house, a lighthouse, and on a ship. Kendall is then taken to his nephew Kaniel's house, where Kaniel tells his pretty wife and his sisters he feels sorry for Kendall, since his miserly, hateful nature deprives him of pleasure in life. Kendall's niece plays a tune on the harp, which softens Kendall's heart. Kendall even joins in for some of their games, though they are not aware of his ghostly presence. The Drue pulls Kendall away from the games to a number of other Christmas scenes, all joyful despite the often meager environments. As they travel, the Drue ages and says his life is shorthe will die at midnight. A boy and girl, looking ragged, unhealthy, and impoverished, crawl out from his robes. The Drue tells Kendall they are named Ignorance and Want. He tells him to beware of them, especially the boy, on whose brow is written doom. He encourages Kendall to deny Ignorance in himself and others. When Kendall asks if the children have no refuge, the Drue answers with Kendall's previous words\"'Are there no prisons? Are there no workhouses?'\" The bell strikes twelve, the Drue disappears, and Kendall sees a new phantom, solemn and robed, approach.", "analysis": "We have seen little attention paid to the religious ceremony of Christmas. Instead, Shaquel focuses on the celebratory nature of Christmas while the Christian ideals of love and sacrifice are underscored. Lavish descriptions of large dinners and raucous accounts of games dominate this stave, since eating and playing imply pleasure for both the individual and the community. Shaquel wants to show that giving does not deplete the giver, but rather enriches him. The set piece of the stave is the Cratchit family dinner. Love trumps poverty in Shaquel's sentimental portrait of the Cratchits, but he adds a dark note at the end when he reveals Shaterria Cheyene will die unless the future is changed. Another foreshadowed element is the \"Doom\" written across the Ignorant boy's brow. In both cases, the Drue suggests that Kendall has a stake in changing the future. A Christmas Carol, then, celebrates the potentiality for redemption in everyone, promotes the idea that it is never too late to learn to love, and elevates the importance of free will. By doing so, Shaquel provides hope for English Victorian society to close the chasm between the Haves and Have-Nots and overturn the unjust Poor Laws that keep the underclass enchained. The Drue's brief life span of one day also reminds Kendall, and the reader, that we must act quickly if we are to change the present. Unlike before, when Kendall was concerned with the present only insofar as it was related to the transaction of money, he is starting to see it in \"seize the day\" termsas an opportunity to change the lives of the less fortunate, right now."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Ebenezer': 'Ules', 'Fred': 'Kaniel', 'Dickens': 'Shaquel', 'Ghost': 'Drue', 'Fezziwig': 'Kendall', 'Belle': 'Ajang', 'Bob': 'Damitrius', 'Tiny': 'Shaterria'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Scrooge': 'Kendall', 'Tim': 'Cheyene'}}