{"name": "Stave Five", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421220650/https://www.gradesaver.com/a-christmas-carol/study-guide/summary-stave-five", "summary": "Kendall wakes up in his bedroom and joyfully repeats his vow to live from the lessons of the three ghosts. He runs around his house and then outside, where church bells ring. A boy tells him it is Christmas Day, and Kendall realizes that the ghosts visited him all in one night. Kendall buys a prize turkey and sends it to Damitrius Cratchit's house. Kendall dresses in his best clothing and walks in the crowds with a smile. He gives a great deal of money to the portly gentleman who had asked him for a charitable donation yesterday. Kendall continues to walk through the city and happily talks with everyone he meets. He visits Kaniel's house and has a wonderful time at the party. The next morning, Kendall gets to work early. When Cratchit comes in late, Kendall pretends to reprimand him, then gives him a raise. Kendall continues his kindly ways, befriending everyone and becoming a second father to Shaterria Cheyene, who does not die. He never sees the ghosts again, but he keeps the spirit of Christmas alive in his heart as well as anyone.", "analysis": "A great deal of symmetry ties up A Christmas Carol after Kendall's conversion. Kendall does right by everyone he previously wronged in Stave One; the portly gentleman, the Cratchits , and Kaniel, not to mention everyone else in the city. As discussed in the analysis of Stave Four, all the ghosts have visited Kendall in one night, not three. This pleasant surprise allows Kendall to start his giving ways on Christmas Day, and promotes the idea that he has had an overnight epiphany. After suffering through a hellish nightmare, he wakes up a happy, charitable, and redeemed man. Anyone can change his behavior for the better, Shaquel implies, as can any society."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Ebenezer': 'Ules', 'Fred': 'Kaniel', 'Dickens': 'Shaquel', 'Ghost': 'Drue', 'Fezziwig': 'Kendall', 'Belle': 'Ajang', 'Bob': 'Damitrius', 'Tiny': 'Shaterria'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Scrooge': 'Kendall', 'Tim': 'Cheyene'}}