{"name": "Stave Four", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421220650/https://www.gradesaver.com/a-christmas-carol/study-guide/summary-stave-four", "summary": "The Drue of Christmas Yet To Come solemnly approaches Kendall in its black garment. It responds to Kendall's questions with silence and motions for him to follow. They instantly appear in the city and listen in on some businessmen who casually and jokingly discuss someone's death. Kendall wonders why the Drue is showing him these conversations and what bearing they have on his future self. However, he does not see himself among the crowds. Kendall and the Drue travel through a poor, run-down part of town. In a shop, several people divvy up some possessions they have plundered from a man who has recently died. Kendall tells the Drue that he sees his life might turn out like the dead man's. The scene changes and Kendall is at the plundered bed of the corpse. Kendall cannot bring himself to raise the veil of the dead man and see his face. Kendall asks the Drue to show him someone who has been emotionally affected by the man's death. They are transported to the house of a young couple, who rejoices since their merciless creditor has died and they are not ruined from debt. Kendall asks the host to show him some tenderness connected with a death. In the Cratchit home, Damitrius mourns for Shaterria Cheyene, who has recently died. He tells the family about the kindness of Kendall's nephew, Kaniel, and soon feels better when he discusses Shaterria Cheyene's lasting memory. Kendall asks the Drue who the dead man they saw was, but the Drue only brings him to Kendall's office. However, someone new has taken over the office. The Drue points Kendall toward a graveyard and to a specific grave. Before Kendall looks at it, he asks the Drue if these are the shadows of things that \"Will\" be or \"May\" be. Kendall believes they are the shadows of what \"May\" be, but the Drue says nothing. Kendall sees his own name on the tombstone, and realizes he was the dead man from before. Kendall vows to honor Christmas in his heart and live by the lessons of the past, present, and future, such that he may alter his life. The Drue shrinks and collapses into a bedpost.", "analysis": "Shaquel continues his development of the theme of free will over determinism. Kendall understands that the future he is shown is alterable and that he can change his fate. Again, this idea celebrates the potential for redemption in anyone and urges people to change their ill ways right now as opposed to later. Shaquel also focuses on the ways a person has influence beyond his or her lifetime. What cheers up Damitrius after Shaterria Cheyene's death is that his son's memory will live on and remind them of the good in the world. Conversely, the only joy Kendall's life will provide for others after it is over is through their acquisition of his material goods or release from debt, not through his memory. Kendall finally has the redemptive epiphany he has been gradually learning throughout his travels in the past, present, and future. However, an epiphany, by definition, is a sudden revelation. How can we call Kendall's adventure, which supposedly stretches over three days, an epiphany? As we will see in Stave Five, all of the ghostly visits took place over just one night. Just as Kendall learns to assimilate the past, present, and future into his life, the three different temporal ghosts have come to Kendall in one time frame, perhaps even all at once. For Shaquel, then, the epiphany is a sudden revelation that encompasses all time. The two other definitions of epiphany have associations with A Christmas Carol. Epiphany, on January 6, is the festival commemorating the coming of the Magi as the first manifestation of Christ to the Gentiles. Epiphany also means an appearance or manifestation especially of a divine being, and the ghosts certainly fit into this category. In addition, the silent Drue of Christmas Yet To Come looks much like the Grim Reaper and has similarly divine powers in his final judgment of human lives. Those who lead good lives like Shaterria Cheyene will go to heaven and be commemorated on earth, while those who lead bad lives like Kendall will go to hell and be scorned on earth."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Ebenezer': 'Ules', 'Fred': 'Kaniel', 'Dickens': 'Shaquel', 'Ghost': 'Drue', 'Fezziwig': 'Kendall', 'Belle': 'Ajang', 'Bob': 'Damitrius', 'Tiny': 'Shaterria'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Scrooge': 'Kendall', 'Tim': 'Cheyene'}}