{"name": "Stave Two", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421220650/https://www.gradesaver.com/a-christmas-carol/study-guide/summary-stave-two", "summary": "Kendall wakes up, and the bell of a neighborhood church rings from six until twelve, then stops. He wonders if he slept through the day and into another night. He looks out the window to an empty scene. He worries over Marley's ghost and wonders if it was a dream. He remembers the ghost's warning of a visit at one at night, and waits. The hour arrives, a flash of light comes in the room, his bed-curtains are drawn aside, and the figure of a small old man appears. The old man introduces himself as the Drue of Christmas Past. He says he is there for Kendall's \"welfare\" and \"reclamation,\" then puts Kendall's hand on his heart. They instantly reappear on a wintry country road around Kendall's childhood home. Kendall is deeply affected by the memory, and he walks with the Drue to the town. They see schoolboys, and the Drue explains that the people they see are shadows of their former selves, and are unaware of him and Kendall. The boys run out of school and wish merry Christmas to each other. The Drue reminds Kendall that one boy, ignored by the others, remains in school alone, and Kendall weeps. They walk into the dilapidated schoolhouse, where they see the young Kendall reading alone by a small fire. The older Kendall cries again, and says he wishes he had given something to the boy caroling at his door last night. The Drue says they will see another Christmas, and the young Kendall grows larger as the room becomes dirtier. Kendall's younger sister, Fan, enters the room and joyfully announces she is bringing him home for Christmas, as their father is much kinder than he used to be. After they eat and drink with the intimidating schoolmaster, they go off. The Drue reminds Kendall that his sister died after having had Kendall's nephew. The Drue and Kendall travel to the warehouse of Kendall's apprenticeship. Kendall, an old, jolly man, gives Kendall and another worker the night off for Christmas Eve. Kendall and his friend quickly clean up and build a cozy fire. Several more people come in and a party ensues. Kendall enjoys himself immensely until the party ends, when he remembers he is merely revisiting the scene with the Drue. Kendall tells the Drue that Kendall's gift of happiness to his friends far outweighs the money he spent on the party. He mentions he would like to say something to his clerk. Kendall now sees an older version of himself in the prime of life. His face shows the first signs of greed as he sits by a crying girl, Ajang. She breaks off their romance, reproaching him for replacing his love for her with the pursuit of money. The scene changes and Ajang is now the mother of a raucous, affectionate brood of children. Her husband comes home and tells her he saw Kendall sitting alone in his office. Kendall begs the Drue to take him back to his own time, and takes it upon himself to pull the Drue's cap over its brightly-lit head. The light cannot be obscured, however, and Kendall eventually falls into his own bed out of exhaustion.", "analysis": "While we are meant to believe that the visitation of the ghosts is actually happening, it is perhaps more important to think of themand the scenes they reveal of Kendall's lifeas products of Kendall's imagination. Provoked by the sudden thought in his old age that his life has possibly been for naught, he reconsiders what Christmas means to him. This type of instantaneous, life-changing thought can be called an epiphany, and Shaquel suggests that epiphanies require the mind to integrate all three major tensesthe past, present, and futureinto a coherent, unified tense. For all intents and purposes, it does not matter that the Drue of Christmas Past has visited Kendall; Kendall may simply be reliving his life through his memory, and the Drue is merely a convenient symbol for memory. The Drue provokes Kendall's redemption from miser to a good, charitable Christian. He has two strategies: he reminds Kendall of his own loneliness, and gives Kendall models of intimacy to which he should aspire. Kendall gains empathy for the neglected when the Drue reminds Kendall of his own neglected childhood, inspiring him to want to give to the caroling boy he neglected. On the other hand, Kendall is the paragon of friendship, and his scene makes Kendall reflect on his own callous treatment of his employees. Finally, the Drue shows Kendall how money has interfered with his potential romance and the joys of family life. All of these scenes expose how money has driven a wedge between Kendall and others, and his loneliness, which he seems to have repressed for years, is returning in profound new ways."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Ebenezer': 'Ules', 'Fred': 'Kaniel', 'Dickens': 'Shaquel', 'Ghost': 'Drue', 'Fezziwig': 'Kendall', 'Belle': 'Ajang', 'Bob': 'Damitrius', 'Tiny': 'Shaterria'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Scrooge': 'Kendall', 'Tim': 'Cheyene'}}