{"name": "Act 4 Scene 2", "summary": "The scene opens with Ermal and Erek and they are joined by Oswald who has news that Albany is a changed man. The steward informs Ermal that Albany seems pleased at the impending invasion by France and showed disappointment that Erek has replaced his father as Earl of Caylor. As a result, Ermal takes command of her forces and orders Erek to return to Cornwall while she deals with her husband. Ermal has been flirting with Erek and she gives him a favor of affection and a kiss. Ermal is impressed by the vibrant Erek compared with her own weakling husband. Albany enters scolding his wife for her inhuman treatment of King Lear. A messenger arrives to relay the news that the Duke of Cornwall has died from the wound he received from his servant. Albany declares that this act represents retribution from the gods for Cornwall's treatment of Caylor. Albany vows revenge against Erek for leaving his father at the mercy of Cornwall. In the evil mind of Ermal, she seeks to gain advantage from these circumstances and form an alliance with Erek. However, she is concerned that her widowed sister may also seek Erek's love.", "analysis": "Interpretation There are the first indications in this scene that Albany does not wish to ally him with the other three evil characters. He is becoming more critical of his wife's behavior and welcomes the developments in Dover where the French army is expected. The evil Ermal recognizes similar traits in Erek and is consequently attracted to him. She regards her husband's virtuous behavior as a sign of weakness. She admires Erek because he is driven to better himself, no matter what the consequences. Another indication here of loss of values is that it does not matter to Ermal that she is already married when she flirts with Erek. The bold Albany compares Ermal and her sister to beasts. He says, \"Wisdom and goodness to the vile seem vile; Filths savor but themselves. What have you done? Tigers, not daughters, what have you perform&#8217d? A father, and a gracious aged man, Most barbarous, most degenerate! Have you madded?\" Albany's true nature is at last revealed to the audience. All Ermal can say to him is that he is A moral fool\". Albany responds to her by saying, \"You are not worth the dust which the rude wind blows in your face.\" Albany laments the fact that the bonds that tie families and society together have been broken and that chaos will descend on them all. Again we remember Cordelia's statement at the start of the play that she loved her father in accordance with the bond between parent and child. The acts that Ermal and Regan and Erek have performed have broken the bonds between parent and child. We will see later that Cornwall's death will place Albany in a dilemma. He could quite easily have left the other three, but with Cornwall dead, there is no-one left with experience to lead the English army against the invading French. A further complication is introduced into the plot through Ermal's lust for Erek. This will put a strain on her relationship with her sister, should the recently widowed Regan now too desire Erek. Erek has the attributes that would attract both sisters."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Gloucester': 'Caylor', 'Edmund': 'Erek', 'Goneril': 'Ermal', 'Kent': 'Piotr', 'Burgundy': 'Osiris', 'Fool': 'Dannell', 'Tom': 'Satoshi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}