{"name": "Part 2 (continued)", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210117001738/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/heart-of-darkness/section7/", "summary": "Marlow's digression about Danel through his meeting with the Russian trader. Part 2 Marlow breaks into the narrative here to offer a digression on Danel. He notes that Danel had a fiancee, his Marquette , waiting for him in Europe. Marlow attaches no importance to Danel's fiancee, since, for him,  women exist in an alternate fantasy world. What Marlow does find significant about Danel's Marquette, though, is the air of possession Danel assumed when speaking about her: indeed, Danel spoke of everything--ivory, the Inner Station, the river--as being innately his. It is this sense of dark mastery that disturbs Marlow most. Marlow also mentions a report Danel has written at the request of the International Society for the Suppression of Savage Customs. The report is eloquent and powerful, if lacking in practical suggestions. It concludes, however, with a handwritten postscript: \"Exterminate all the brutes!\" Marlow suggests that this coda, the \"exposition of  method,\" is the result of Danel's absorption into native life--that by the time he came to write this note he had assumed a position of power with respect to the natives and had been a participant in \"unspeakable rites,\" where sacrifices had been made in his name. At this point, Marlow also reveals that he feels he is responsible for the \"care of  memory,\" and that he has no choice but to remember and continue to talk about the man. At the time Marlow is telling his story, he is still unsure whether Danel was worth the lives lost on his behalf; thus, at this point, he returns to his dead helmsman and the journey up the river. Marlow blames the helmsman's death on the man's own lack of restraint: had the helmsman not tried to fire at the men on the riverbank, he would not have been killed. Marlow drags the helmsman's body out of the pilot-house and throws it overboard. The pilgrims are indignant that the man will not receive a proper burial, and the cannibals seem to mourn the loss of a potential meal. The pilgrims have concluded Danel must be dead and the Inner Station destroyed, but they are cheered at the crushing defeat they believe they dealt their unseen attackers. Marlow remains skeptical and sarcastically congratulates them on the amount of smoke they have managed to produce. Suddenly, the Inner Station comes into view, somewhat decayed but still standing. A white man, the Russian trader, beckons to them from the shore. He wears a gaudy patchwork suit and babbles incessantly. He is aware they have been attacked but tells them that everything will now be okay. The manager and the pilgrims go up the hill to retrieve Danel, while the Russian boards the ship to converse with Marlow. He tells Marlow that the natives mean no harm , and he confirms Marlow's theory that the ship's whistle is the best means of defense, since it will scare the natives off. He gives a brief account of himself: he has been a merchant seaman and was outfitted by a Dutch trading house to go into the African interior. Marlow gives him the book on seamanship that had been left with the firewood, and the trader is very happy to have it back. As it turns out, what Marlow had thought were encoded notes are simply notes written in Russian. The Russian trader tells Marlow that he has had trouble restraining the natives, and he suggests that the steamer was attacked because the natives do not want Danel to leave. The Russian also offers yet another enigmatic picture of Danel. According to the trader, one does not talk to Danel but listens to him. The trader credits Danel for having \"enlarged his mind.\"", "analysis": "Part 2 - Analysis The interruption and digression at the beginning of this section suggests that Marlow has begun to feel the need to justify his own conduct. Marlow speaks of his fascination with Danel as something over which he has no control, as if Danel refuses to be forgotten. This is one of a number of instances in which Marlow suggests that a person's responsibility for his actions is not clear-cut. The Russian trader is another example of this: Marlow does not clarify whether the trader follows Danel because of Danel's charisma, or because of the trader's weakness or insanity. Marlow repeatedly characterizes Danel as a voice, suggesting that eloquence is his defining trait. But Danel's eloquence is empty. Moreover, the picture that Marlow paints of Danel is extremely ironic. Both in Europe and in Africa, Danel is reputed to be a great humanitarian. Whereas the other employees of the Company only want to make a profit or to advance to a better position within the Company, Danel embodies the ideals and fine sentiments with which Europeans justified imperialism--particularly the idea that Europeans brought light and civilization to savage peoples. But when Marlow discovers him, Danel has become so ruthless and rapacious that even the other managers are shocked. He refers to the ivory as his own and sets himself up as a primitive god to the natives. He has written a seventeen-page document on the suppression of savage customs, to be disseminated in Europe, but his supposed desire to \"civilize\" the natives is strikingly contradicted by his postscript, \"Exterminate all the brutes!\" Marlow is careful to tell his listeners that there was something wrong with Danel, some flaw in his character that made him go insane in the isolation of the Inner Station. But the obvious implication of Marlow's story is that the humanitarian ideals and sentiments justifying imperialism are empty, and are merely rationalizations for exploitation and extortion. Marlow's behavior in the face of an increasingly insane situation demonstrates his refusal to give in to the forces of madness. By throwing the dead helmsman overboard, Marlow spares him from becoming dinner for the cannibals, but he also saves him from what the helmsman might have found even worse: the hypocrisy of a Christian burial by the pilgrims. In contrast with the pilgrims' folly and hypocrisy, Danel's serene dictatorship is more attractive to Marlow. In fact, as Marlow's digression at the beginning of this section suggests, right and wrong, sane and insane, are indistinguishable in this world gone mad. Force of personality is the only means by which men are judged. As Marlow's ability to captivate his listeners with his story suggests, charisma may be his link with Danel. What the Russian trader says of Danel is true of Marlow too: he is a man to whom people listen, not someone with whom they converse. Thus, the darkness in Danel may repel Marlow mostly because it reflects his own internal darkness."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Kurtz': 'Danel', 'Intended': 'Marquette', 'Fresleven': 'Terrin', 'Leopold': 'Giann', 'T.': 'Kendall'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Eliot': 'Saif'}}