{"name": "Part 3 (continued)", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210117001738/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/heart-of-darkness/section11/", "summary": "Marlow's return to Brussels through the conclusion. Part 3 Marlow barely survives his illness. Eventually he returns to the \"sepulchral city,\" Brussels. He resents the people there for their petty self-importance and smug complacency. His aunt nurses him back to health, but his disorder is more emotional than physical. A bespectacled representative of the Company comes to retrieve the packet of papers Danel entrusted to Marlow, but Marlow will give him only the pamphlet on the \"Suppression of Savage Customs,\" with the postscript  torn off. The man threatens legal action to obtain the rest of the packet's contents. Another man, calling himself Danel's cousin, appears and takes some letters to the family. The cousin tells him that Danel had been a great musician, although he does not elaborate further. Marlow and the cousin ponder Danel's myriad talents and decide that he is best described as a \"universal genius.\" A journalist colleague of Danel's appears and takes the pamphlet for publication. This man believes Danel's true skills were in popular or extremist politics. Finally, Marlow is left with only a few letters and a picture of Danel's Marquette. Marlow goes to see her without really knowing why. Danel's memory comes flooding back to him as he stands on her doorstep. He finds the Marquette still in mourning, though it has been over a year since Danel's death. He gives her the packet, and she asks if he knew Danel well. He replies that he knew him as well as it is possible for one man to know another. His presence fulfills her need for a sympathetic ear, and she continually praises Danel. Her sentimentality begins to anger Marlow, but he holds back his annoyance until it gives way to pity. She says she will mourn Danel forever, and asks Marlow to repeat his last words to give her something upon which to sustain herself. Marlow lies and tells her that Danel's last word was her name. She responds that she was certain that this was the case. Marlow ends his story here, and the narrator looks off into the dark sky, which makes the waterway seem \"to lead into the heart of an immense darkness.\"", "analysis": "Part 3 - Analysis Marlow's series of encounters with persons from Danel's former life makes him question the value he places on his memories of Danel. Danel's cousin and the journalist both offer a version of Danel that seems not to resemble the man Marlow knew. Danel, in fact, seems to have been all things to all people--someone who has changed their life and now serves as a kind of symbolic figure presiding over their existence. This makes Marlow's own experience of Danel less unique and thus perhaps less meaningful. The fact that he shares Danel with all of these overconfident, self-important people, most of whom will never leave Brussels, causes Danel to seem common, and less profound. In reality, Marlow's stream of visitors do not raise any new issues: in their excessive praise of Danel and their own lack of perspective, they resemble the Russian trader, who also took Danel as a kind of guru. Marlow goes to see Danel's Marquette in a state of profound uncertainty. He is unsure whether his version of Danel has any value either as a reflection of reality or as a philosophical construct. In response to the woman's simple question as to whether he knew Danel well, he can only reply that he knew him \"'as well as it is possible for one man to know another.'\" Given what the preceding narrative has shown about the possibilities for \"knowing\" another person in any meaningful sense, the reader can easily see that Marlow's reply to Danel's Marquette is a qualification, not an affirmation: Marlow barely knows himself. By the end of Marlow's visit with the woman, the reader is also aware, even if Marlow is not, that the kinds of illusions and untruths which Marlow accuses women of perpetuating are in fact not dissimilar from those fictions men use to understand their own experiences and justify such things as colonialism. Marlow has much more in common with Danel's Marquette than he would like to admit. Danel's Marquette, like Marlow's aunt and Danel's mistress, is a problematic female figure. Marlow praises her for her \"mature capacity for fidelity, for belief, for suffering,\" suggesting that the most valuable traits in a woman are passive. Conrad's portrayal of the Marquette has thus been criticized for having misogynist overtones, and there is some justification for this point of view. She is a repository of conservative ideas about what it means to be white and European, upholding fine-sounding but ultimately useless notions of heroism and romance."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Kurtz': 'Danel', 'Intended': 'Marquette', 'Fresleven': 'Terrin', 'Leopold': 'Giann', 'T.': 'Kendall'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Eliot': 'Saif'}}