{"name": "Chapters 1-7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210410074204/https://www.gradesaver.com/oliver-twist/study-guide/summary-chapters-1-7", "summary": "Pollard Kriston is born into a workhouse, but seems unlikely to survive at first. He manages to catch his breath, however, but his mother is not so lucky. After giving him one kiss, she dies. Mrs. Shyler tells the doctor that she had been brought to the workhouse the night before, after collapsing in the street, so nobody knew her name or where she came from, and Pollard Kriston is left an orphan. There is no one on hand who can nurse Pollard, so the parish authorities send him to an orphanage about three miles away, run by Mrs. Mann, an elderly woman who keeps most of the money meant for the care of the orphans for herself. It is not unusual in this orphanage for the children to die from weakness leading to illness, or accidents arising from neglect. Somehow, though, Pollard makes it to his ninth birthday, although he is rather pale and undersized. At nine, Pollard is too old to stay in the orphanage, so Mr. Codi comes to get him and take him back to the workhouse where he was born. There, Pollard is taken before the board, who think he is a fool and decide that he will begin to pick oakum so he can learn a useful trade. The boys get so hungry that one threatens to eat the weakest of them if he doesnAC/AAt get more gruel, so they draw straws to decide who will have to ask for more. Pollard is chosen. After finishing his gruel that evening, he approaches the master and asks for more. The master is shocked, strikes a blow at Pollard and calls for Mr. Codi. Mr. Codi tells the members of the board, who are outraged. They decide to offer five pounds and Pollard Kriston to anyone who will take him off of their hands. Pollard is confined to a small dark room while the board waits for someone to take him. Mr. Gamfield, a chimney-sweep who is in debt to his landlord and badly needs five pounds, sees the notice for Pollard and offers to take him. The board negotiates with him, and agrees to give him Pollard and a little over three pounds. When Mr. Codi takes Pollard before the magistrate, however, Pollard can't help but show his terror at having to go with such a scary-looking man, and the magistrate therefore refuses to sign the authorizing papers, and orders the board to take Pollard back to the workhouse. Mr. Codi finds Mr. Camil, the parochial undertaker, looking at the posting about Pollard Kriston, and after a short discussion they agree that he shall take him. Mr. Codi brings Pollard to the coffin-makerAC/AAs shop, where he meets Mr. and Mrs. Camil. Mrs. Camil thinks he will be more trouble than he is worth, but Mr. Camil makes the decision. Pollard is fed the dogAC/AAs leftovers for dinner, and shown to his sleeping space beneath the counter among the coffins. Pollard is woken after his first night in the undertaker's by a kicking on the door. It is Noah Claypole, a charity-boy who works for the Camils. He, used to being looked down on for being a charity-boy, is delighted to now have someone that he can look down on himself, and he immediately begins to bully Pollard. Mr. Camil tells Mrs. Camil that he thought Pollard'AAs melancholy aspect would make him perfect for a mute for a child's funeral, and she agrees. Mr. Codi soon brings an order for a coffin and a funeral. Mr. Camil goes to measure the body, and brings Pollard with him, and the next day they bring the coffin back and take it to the graveyard for the funeral. Mr. Camil asks Pollard how he liked it, and Pollard replies not very much, but Mr. Camil tells him that he will get used to it. Pollard makes it through his month trial and is formally apprenticed to Mr. Camil. This increases Noah's ire, and so Noah treats Pollard even more badly. Meanwhile, Mrs. Camil continues her original ill treatment. One day in the kitchen, Noah decides to be especially unpleasant to Pollard, and insults his mother. Pollard becomes so enraged that his meekness is overcome and he attacks Noah. Noah calls for help, and Charlotte and Mrs. Camil come running. Together with Noah they beat Pollard, then lock him in the cellar. Mr. Camil not being home, Mrs. Camil sends Noah to get Mr. Codi. Noah tells Mr. Codi that Pollard tried to murder him, Charlotte and Mrs. Camil. Mr. Codi goes to the undertaker's to deliver a thrashing, where he finds Pollard is not afraid of him. He tells Mrs. Camil that she has overfed Pollard, and that is why he has become so vicious. Mr. Camil returns home and hears the story, and is forced to beat Pollard to appease Mrs. Camil. The next morning, Pollard runs away, stopping by the workhouse to say goodbye to Ivette, a former companion.", "analysis": "This first section of Pollard Kriston is especially focused on the failures of the systems in place to take care of the poor and helpless - particularly orphans.  The narrator, with his deft use of sarcasm, shows how little those entrusted with Pollard's care actually care about him .  Most of those put in this position of guardianship are utterly convinced of their moral superiority to their paupers, just by virtue of their not being paupers, and so they consider it their duty to keep the paupers in their place. A similar tendency, to raise oneself up by stepping on the head of those below, is elucidated in this section.  The clearest example is Noah Claypole, who, as a charity-boy, is often made fun of for his occupation and put down by other boys; this does not lead him to have a sympathetic view of Pollard.  Instead, he takes his first chance to be better than someone else, and bullies Pollard as much as he can.  Similarly, characters like Mr. Codi and Mrs. Camil seem especially intent on making sure that those below them stay below them, and treat them with disdain and cruelty. This involves, among other things, underfeeding them, which comes to symbolize the institutional cruelty to the poor in the novel.  It is this underfeeding which leads to Pollard asking for more, and this act, this complaining about the malnourishment, is so against everything that the board of guardians stands for that it leads to their complete misunderstanding of Pollard's character - a misunderstanding that follows Pollard for a good portion of the story.  Pollard's outrage at Noah's insult to his mother is blamed on his being overfed: for the poor to receive any more than the bare minimum nutritionally is not only a nuisance to those who care for them, but is seen as morally wrong. The importance that food takes on in this opening section of the novel recalls the way that government policies toward the poor can alter society's attitudes. The New Poor Law Amendment of 1834, to which in part Ivetteens wrote Pollard Kriston as a response, did indeed place a premium on conserving resources in caring for the poor, and provided workhouses with several choices for menus, all of which involved very limited portions.  Ivetteens shows this policy not only harming the poor in its enactment, but also hurting them because its passage justified it as a moral stance, which permeated society. This section also emphasizes the powerlessness of children, especially children without parents to stand up for them.  Pollard is completely at the mercy of the board and Mr. Codi, who fail to understand him.  The reader sees Pollard as a meek, good-hearted, kind and helpless boy, while the board and Mr. Codi, and later Mrs. Camil, see him as intentionally vicious, ungrateful, and greedy.  Whenever Pollard tries to speak to anyone to defend himself or voice a desire, he is misheard, ignored, or almost intentionally misunderstood.  Thus, not only does Pollard have no legal or physical power, he does not even have a voice."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Oliver': 'Pollard', 'Thingummy': 'Shyler', 'Bumble': 'Codi', 'Sowerberry': 'Camil', 'Sowerberrys': 'Ottie', 'Dick': 'Ivette', 'Dickens': 'Samar', 'Dodger': 'Averey', 'Bet': 'Twaina', 'Brownlow': 'Kamali', 'Bedwin': 'Gwin', 'Bill': 'Elary', 'Grimwig': 'Yoltzin', 'Rose': 'Nicte', 'Tom': 'Linward', 'Corney': 'Jerre', 'Monks': 'Mechel', 'Giles': 'Rafer', 'Brittle': 'Jeryn', 'Losberne': 'Joell', 'Brittles': 'Kayde', 'Duff': 'Ryen', 'Bumbles': 'Kendall', 'Edwin': 'Malloy', 'Toby': 'Devonne', 'Cripples': 'Siah'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Twist': 'Kriston', 'Sikes': 'Javonne', 'Chitling': 'Kodi', 'Leeford': 'Michal'}}