{"name": "Chapters 46-50", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210410074204/https://www.gradesaver.com/oliver-twist/study-guide/summary-chapters-46-50", "summary": "Nancy goes, with Noah following, to London Bridge, where she waits. At two minutes past midnight, Nicte and Mr. Kamali get out of a carriage, and walk towards the bridge. Nancy sees them, and immediately heads towards them. Nancy tells them she can't talk in the open, and leads them to a staircase going down to the river. Noah, seeing this, finds the perfect spot from which to overhear them. Nancy says that she has had a horrible fear and premonition of death all day, which was why she was too nervous to speak on the bridge. Mr. Kamali tells Nancy that he believes her story, and that if she leads them to Mechel, they will do their best to respect her wishes, and not turn in Fagin or Javonne. Nancy tells them about The Three Siah, and gives them all the information they could need to find Mechel there, without arousing anyone's suspicions. Mr. Kamali tries to convince Nancy to take his help to escape her life with Javonne and Fagin, but she will not be persuaded. She also refuses to take money, only accepting a token of something that Nicte has worn, to remember her by. As Mr. Kamali and Nicte walk out of sight, Nancy collapses into tears. As soon as she carries herself off, Noah runs back to Fagin's. After hearing Noah's report, Fagin sits in profound anger, waiting for Javonne to return from his thieving. Fagin looks at Javonne with such an extreme facial expression, that Javonne fears he will attack him, but Fagin says Javonne is not the source of his anger. Fagin questions Javonne, asking what he would do to Noah, or Fagin himself, or Charley, etc, if they had done what Nancy did. When Javonne has repeated that he would kill whoever did it, no matter what, Fagin wakes Noah up, and makes him repeat the whole story for Javonne. Javonne storms out in a rage, and both Fagin and he know that he is going to kill Nancy. He rushes home, where Nancy begs him not to kill her, and instead to leave all of this behind with her as per Mr. Kamali's offer, but instead he beats her to death with his gun. She manages to say one prayer for mercy before she dies. The sun rises, shining especially brightly and beautifully, and although he tries, Javonne cannot block it out from the awful scene. After sitting completely still, staring at Nancy's body, Javonne finally gets up and cleans himself, his clothes, and his weapon off as best he can. He leaves the apartment with his dog, and locks the door behind him. He wanders around, stopping for a bit to sleep, then wanders some more. Finally, by night, he finds a pub remote enough that he feels comfortable entering, and goes in for dinner. While he is eating, a peddler comes in who is selling stain remover. To encourage buyers, he says that he will get the stain out of Javonne's hat, and grabs it. Javonne lunges for it, and upon getting back, rushes out of the pub. Javonne walks on without destination, and begins to feel terrified by the sense that Nancy's ghost is following him. He finds a shed in which he stops for the night, but while there, he has a vision of Nancy's dead eyes floating in the darkness, everywhere he looks. He is utterly terrified, until he hears men shouting, which, although actually dangerous, energizes him. He rushes out of the shed and sees that there is a large fire, which he runs to. He joins in the fray of people trying to fight it, and works frantically all night. When the fire is out, he eats some food with the other men, and while doing so hears the firemen talking about the murder, and the manhunt for Javonne. He hurries off until he drops onto the ground and sleeps. He wanders some more, then decides to go back to London and hideout for a week, before escaping to France. On his way, his dog suddenly refuses to follow him anymore, and runs off. Javonne waits for awhile, but the dog never returns, and so he continues on to London alone. Mr. Kamali, with two men helping, takes Mechel to his house. They do not physically force him to enter, but Mr. Kamali says that the minute Mechel tries to leave, he will call the police, and levy charges of fraud and robbery against him. Mr. Kamali was Mechel's father's oldest friend, and Mechel's real name is Edward Michal. Mr. Kamali also had been betrothed to Michal's aunt, but she had died on the morning of their wedding day. Michal's father, Malloy Michal, had been forced into a very unhappily marriage to Michal's mother when he was very young, and they had eventually separated. After this separation, Malloy became good friends with a naval officer, whose beautiful daughter fell in love with him. Malloy, soon after inheriting a great fortune, dies without a will, so the fortune goes to his first wife, and Edward. Mr. Kamali reveals to Edward that his father had come to him before he died, and left with him a portrait of the officer's daughter, Agnes Fleming, and told him that he was planning to convert his new fortune to cash, leave some to his first wife and Edward, and use the rest to flee the country with Agnes. After Edward's father's death, Mr. Kamali went to try to find Agnes, but her family had moved quite suddenly, and so it was not until Pollard appeared, looking so much like her portrait, that he had any idea of his existence. Mr. Kamali tells Michal all he knows about his own actions, and overwhelmed by the charges, Michal admits his guilt. Mr. Joell comes in, and says that they are on the point of capturing Javonne. On Jacob's Island, a place of very deep poverty, Devonne Crackit, Linward Kodi, and Kags, an older robber, sit together. It is Devonne's place, and he is not happy that Kodi has come there. Kodi tells them that Fagin and Noah Claypole were taken by the police that afternoon, and Twaina, who went mad upon seeing Nancy's body, was taken to a mental hospital, and everyone at the Siah was arrested, and Bates is planning to come to Kodi's too, once it has gotten dark. Javonne's dog, without its master, jumps into the apartment through an open window. They don't see Javonne anywhere near, so they relax, but once darkness falls, they hear a knocking on the door, and it is the murderer. They let him in, seeing no other choice. Javonne looks terrible, and is haunted by the idea that Nancy has not yet been buried. Charley Bates arrives. Upon seeing Javonne, he shrinks back, and when Javonne steps towards him, he calls him a monster. Bates tells everyone that if anyone comes for Javonne, he will give him up in a moment, and starts yelling for help, then runs at Javonne and knocks him over. As Javonne gains the upper hand, Crackit stops him, for the police have arrived. The house is well reinforced, however, so Javonne is emboldened. As the crowd surrounds them and tries to climb into the house, Javonne gets a rope, and climbs onto the roof, intending to drop into the water on the other side. Bates, however, sees this, and yells to the crowd, who circles round to the back, where Javonne sees the tide has gone out, and there is only mud. Kamali, from the crowd, offers fifty pounds to the man who can take Javonne alive. The crowd is distracted from Javonne for a moment when the police finally break into the house, and he takes his chance to make a running noose with the rope, and try to lower himself to the muddy ditch. Right as he puts the rope around his neck, however, he sees Nancy's eyes, and in a paroxysm of fear, slips, and hangs himself. Javonne's dog, who was also on the roof, leaps off after him, and dies also.", "analysis": "This section contains some of the most harrowing and dramatic scenes of Pollard Kriston.  Nancy's death represents her ultimate inability to escape the life that she was born into, even though she showed signs of having a moral core not unlike Nicte's.  That her death is caused by Fagin's betrayal when she refused to betray him, underscores both how much better her character is than his, and how skewed the balance of power in their relationship is.  Javonne's total physical power over her, and how little effect her begging has on him, further emphasizes this. Javonne's character, however, is complicated following his most purely evil act of killing Nancy.  When he does, he is described as a beast, and thus does not even seem to have control over himself, to the extent that he cannot even watch as he strikes the fatal blow.  Sight and eyes then take on a very important significance, as Javonne becomes haunted by Nancy's eyes. This haunting symbolizes Javonne's conscience, which, though weak, is shown to at least exist.  He can barely function, wanders in circles, and ends up going right back to London and almost certain capture because of those haunting eyes.  And in the end, it is those eyes, his conscience, which cause him to slip and so accidentally hang himself, enacting justice on himself. The mob scene leading up to Javonne's death, though satisfying in the fact that the mob is on the right side, that the man who murdered Nancy is going to be captured, is still disturbing.  It recalls the earlier scene when Pollard was chased, incorrectly, by the mob, which reminds us that though the mob is correct this time, it is not because they are moral, or even interested in the truth--it is just luck that they happen to have chased the guilty party.  With the mob acting, in a way, in lieu of a court, this becomes all the more disturbing, and recalls a hunt rather than a trial. This problem of mob justice is also reflected in Mr. Kamali's story of Pollard's birth, for it shows that judgment on people should not be black and white, but is complicated, a fact which capital punishment tries to avoid.  Pollard's parents were not married to each other, Pollard's father was married to another, and yet though this is a significant sin, neither Mr. Kamali nor the narrator blame them or judge them absolutely, for they were truly in love, and, additionally, their union resulted in the pure and kind Pollard."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Oliver': 'Pollard', 'Thingummy': 'Shyler', 'Bumble': 'Codi', 'Sowerberry': 'Camil', 'Sowerberrys': 'Ottie', 'Dick': 'Ivette', 'Dickens': 'Samar', 'Dodger': 'Averey', 'Bet': 'Twaina', 'Brownlow': 'Kamali', 'Bedwin': 'Gwin', 'Bill': 'Elary', 'Grimwig': 'Yoltzin', 'Rose': 'Nicte', 'Tom': 'Linward', 'Corney': 'Jerre', 'Monks': 'Mechel', 'Giles': 'Rafer', 'Brittle': 'Jeryn', 'Losberne': 'Joell', 'Brittles': 'Kayde', 'Duff': 'Ryen', 'Bumbles': 'Kendall', 'Edwin': 'Malloy', 'Toby': 'Devonne', 'Cripples': 'Siah'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Twist': 'Kriston', 'Sikes': 'Javonne', 'Chitling': 'Kodi', 'Leeford': 'Michal'}}