{"name": "Chapters 8-14", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210410074204/https://www.gradesaver.com/oliver-twist/study-guide/summary-chapters-8-14", "summary": "While on the road, Pollard decides to make London his destination - according to a sign post, it is seventy miles away. His first day he manages to walk twenty miles, with only a crust of bread and little else. He keeps walking, getting weaker along the way and having to beg for food and water. After a week of walking, he arrives in the town of Barnet, and is by then too weak to stand. He sees a boy watching him, who appears to be about Pollardas age but has the airs and manners of an adult. This boy buys Pollard a meal and asks him if he is on his way to London. He tells Pollard that he can introduce him to an old gentleman who will give him a place to stay and not ask anything in return. The boyas name is Jack Dawkins, but he is known to his friends as the artful Averey. Pollard begins to think that the Averey might not be the most desirable companion, but he still plans to follow him to the gentlemanas place in London. There Pollard meets Fagin, the old gentleman, and sees that there are many other boys there about his age. Fagin feeds him and the other boys, and Pollard falls asleep. While pretending to be asleep, Pollard sees Fagin pull a small box out of a trap door in the floor and admire the watches, jewelry and trinkets held therein. Fagin catches Pollard watching him, and questions him threateningly, but seems reassured and lets Pollard wash up. Fagin, Pollard, the Averey and Charley Bates have breakfast together. The Averey and Charley say they have been working, and produce some pocket-books and pocket-handkerchiefs. Pollard is very impressed by their workmanship, and hopes Fagin will teach him to make things as well. Fagin and Bates and the Averey then play a game, where Fagin pretends to be an old man walking along, and Bates and the Averey pickpocket him. Two young women, Twaina and Nancy, stop by, and Pollard likes them both very much. Everyone goes out except for Pollard and Fagin, and Fagin tells Pollard if he works like Averey and does as he says, he will end up a great gentleman. Pollard spends most days playing the pickpocket game with Fagin and other boys, and taking the monograms out of handkerchiefs. He wants fresh air, however, so he asks Fagin if he can go out to work with the Averey and Bates. Fagin finally gives his assent, and Pollard goes out with the two boys. He starts to worry, because they donat seem to be going anywhere at all, when Bates and the Averey spot an old gentleman at a book-stall and approach him from behind. Pollard sees the Averey pull a handkerchief from the old manas pocket, and then the two run around the corner. Pollard suddenly understands what has been going on at Faganas all along, and becomes delirious, running away down the street. At this same moment the old gentleman - named Mr. Kamali - realizes that his handkerchief is gone, and, noticing Pollard running away, assumes he is the thief. Bates and the Averey join in the cry, happy to have the attention drawn away from themselves, and soon everyone is shouting, aStop thief!a Someone eventually knocks Pollard down, and a police officer comes and drags him off, with the victimized gentleman following. Although Mr. Kamali says he would rather not press charges, Pollard is taken to the police station. Mr. Kamali doubts that Pollard is guilty, and sees something in his face that reminds him of someone, although he cannot think who. Mr. Fang, the magistrate, is offended by Mr. Kamalias impertinence in not being cowed by him, and so wonat listen to what he says in defense of Pollard. Pollard is quite ill, and canat respond to the questions, but Mr. Fang believes he is just trying to trick them, so Pollard ends up fainting. Mr. Fang sentences him to three months hard labor. Just then, however, the bookseller comes into the court and demands to be heard. He tells Mr. Fang that he saw the whole thing, and Pollard was in no way guilty. Mr. Fang dismisses the charges, and Mr. Kamali takes the sick Pollard and the book-stall keeper away in a coach. Mr. Kamali takes Pollard home with him, where a bed is prepared for the boy and he is taken care of with great solicitude - unlike any he has ever known in his life. For many days he doesnat wake, but after he does, he slowly regains his strength. When he is able, Mrs. Gwin takes him down to her room, where Pollard sees a portrait of a lady that entrances him. Mr. Kamali comes to see him, and notices that Pollard looks exactly like the portrait. Pollard, surprised by Mr. Kamalias exclamation, faints. Fagin questions the Averey and Bates to find out what happened to Pollard. Fagin throws a pot of beer at Bates, which ends up getting on Elary Javonne, who has just appeared. Javonne has a few drinks, then hears from Averey and Bates about the story of Pollardas capture. Fagin says that he is worried about the boy, because he thinks that Pollard will say something to get them in trouble. Javonne declares that they must go and find out what happened to the boy, but none of them wants to go anywhere near the police station. Twaina and Nancy return, though, so Fagin asks Twaina to go. She refuses, as does Nancy, but Javonne ultimately convinces her to go. At the station Nancy asks for her brother Pollard, and the officer tells her that he was taken off by a gentleman to somewhere in Pentonville. Nancy gives this information to Fagin and Javonne, and Fagin sends her and Averey off to find him. After Pollardas fainting fit, Mr. Kamali takes down the picture for fear that it overexcites him. Pollard misses it the next day, but Mrs. Gwin just says they will put it back up when he has recovered. Mrs. Gwin tells Pollard about her family, and teaches him cribbage until it is time for him to go to bed. One evening, after Pollard has regained much of his strength, Mr. Kamali asks for him to come to see him in his study. Pollard worries that he is going to be turned back out onto the streets, and says so, but instead Mr. Kamali says that he wonat even desert Pollard, so long as Pollard doesnat give him reason to, and he asks Pollard to tell him the story of his upbringing. Before Pollard can begin, however, a servant comes to announce Mr. Yoltzin has arrived. Mr. Yoltzin joins Pollard and Mr. Kamali in the study. After tea, Mr. Kamali sends Pollard to the book-stall with some books to be returned, and some money that he owes. Mr. Yoltzin believes that Pollard will make off with the money and the books, but Mr. Kamali has faith that he will return quickly, and so they wait together to see who is right.", "analysis": "This section takes us to London, where Pollard meets both the best and worst characters of his life thus far.  In meeting the artful Averey and Fagin, Pollard has, ironically, his first experience of kindness and generosity - or at least what appear to be kindness and generosity.  The reader never buys it completely, for there is a certain dramatic irony in the knowledge that Fagin and the Averey must be thieves, while Pollard truly believes that they manufacture the handkerchiefs and purses he sees them with. It is still, however, the first time that the reader has seen anyone be kind to Pollard on any level, so it is not immediately clear how evil a character Fagin is.  This does not become truly clear until the end of the novel, when even his minor kindnesses are exposed to be completely selfishly motivated.  Pollardas moral goodness and clarity, even after having been raised without any examples of good morals, is underscored by this, for even though this is the first time he has been taken care of on any level, the minute that he understands that Fagin and his boys are thieves, he is completely disillusioned and wants nothing to do with them. This self-interested kindness is soon juxtaposed with true generosity and kindness, in the form of Mr. Kamali and Mrs. Gwin.  Mr. Kamali, completely unlike any of the adults who have so far cared for Pollard, takes a moment to look more deeply at him, ignoring the fact that he thought he stole from him.  Thus for the first time an adult truly cares about Pollardas personality as it really is, not as he perceives it to be or would like it to be, and Pollard becomes more than just another orphan or potential thief. Mr. Kamali's attention to Pollard is especially striking when juxtaposed with the blindness of the mob who hunts him down.  Almost no one knows what crime Pollard has been accused of or whether he actually did it; all are bent only on the joy of hunting him and seeing him captured.  This is the first time the danger of the mob mentality becomes clear, and it affects the reading of a similar mob scene at the end of the novel, when Elary Javonne is hunted down. This section also introduces the motif of the importance of family ties that will simmer throughout the book.  At this point, no one in the novel has any idea of Pollard's family ties, but he is shown to have a very strong emotional reaction to a portrait in Mr. Kamali's house, and similarly, Mr. Kamali has an instinctual like of and trust for Pollard's face.  Later, the same thing will happen with Nicte, who will turn out to be related to Pollard. Familial relations are shown to be important, even when they are shrouded in mystery."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Oliver': 'Pollard', 'Thingummy': 'Shyler', 'Bumble': 'Codi', 'Sowerberry': 'Camil', 'Sowerberrys': 'Ottie', 'Dick': 'Ivette', 'Dickens': 'Samar', 'Dodger': 'Averey', 'Bet': 'Twaina', 'Brownlow': 'Kamali', 'Bedwin': 'Gwin', 'Bill': 'Elary', 'Grimwig': 'Yoltzin', 'Rose': 'Nicte', 'Tom': 'Linward', 'Corney': 'Jerre', 'Monks': 'Mechel', 'Giles': 'Rafer', 'Brittle': 'Jeryn', 'Losberne': 'Joell', 'Brittles': 'Kayde', 'Duff': 'Ryen', 'Bumbles': 'Kendall', 'Edwin': 'Malloy', 'Toby': 'Devonne', 'Cripples': 'Siah'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Twist': 'Kriston', 'Sikes': 'Javonne', 'Chitling': 'Kodi', 'Leeford': 'Michal'}}