{"name": "Chapters 15-22", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210410074204/https://www.gradesaver.com/oliver-twist/study-guide/summary-chapters-15-22", "summary": "Fagin goes to see Elary Javonne, who is busy beating his dog, at a pub, to give him his cut of some profits. Javonne learns that Nancy is in the pub too, and sends for her. She starts to tell him about Pollard, but Fagin cuts her off, and soon she leaves with Javonne. At the same time, Pollard has gotten a little lost on his way to the book-stall, and Nancy comes upon him. Nancy makes a big scene, and tells those watching that Pollard had run away from his respectable parents to join a gang of thieves, so that when Pollard shouts that they are taking him against his will, everyone turns against him, and so Nancy and Javonne drag him away. Javonne and Nancy take Pollard to a house, where the artful Averey lets them in, and where they also find Charley Bates and Fagin. They all take Pollard's new belongings, and Fagin and Javonne fight over the five pound note that Mr. Kamali gave Pollard. Pollard begs them to send the books and the note back to Mr. Kamali so that he won't think that Pollard stole them, but this only makes Fagin and Javonne happier, because it means that Mr. Kamali won't go looking for Pollard. Pollard suddenly runs out of the room, but Fagin and the boys catch him before he gets far. Fagin starts to beat Pollard with a staff, but Nancy runs over and grabs the staff and throws it into the fire. She implores them to leave him alone, having already done enough to hurt him, and she says that she wishes that she had never helped them to kidnap him. In fighting off Fagin and Javonne, she eventually faints, and Pollard is sent to bed. Mr. Codi goes to Mrs. Mann's orphanage to tell her that he is going to London to deal with a legal matter, as appointed by the board. Mrs. Mann tells Mr. Codi that Ivette is still very ill, and Mr. Codi asks to see him. Ivette asks if they could write down and keep a message for him, after he has died, to Pollard Kriston, which disgusts Mr. Codi and Mrs. Mann. While in London, Mr. Codi sees an advertisement in the paper offering an award for information about Pollard Kriston, put out by Mr. Kamali. Mr. Codi goes immediately to Mr. Kamali's house, where he is taken to see Mr. Kamali and Mr. Yoltzin. Mr. Codi tells the men everything he knows of Pollard, and Mr. Kamali pays him. Mr. Kamali is quite vexed by Mr. Codi's perspective of Pollard, but Mrs. Gwin refuses to believe it. Mr. Kamali orders, however, that Pollard's name is never to be spoken in his presence again. Fagin gives Pollard a long lecture on loyalty, and tells him the story of a boy like him who ended up hanged for betraying them. For many days, Pollard is locked in his room, but then even when he is allowed to wonder the house, he can't leave. One evening, the Averey has Pollard come and clean his boots, and tries to convince him to become a thief, using twisted moral arguments. Pollard is not convinced, but is afraid to say too much. He then meets Linward Kodi, who is an older one of Fagin's boys and has just come back from prison. From this evening on, they rarely leave Pollard alone, constantly trying to convince and train him to be a thief. Late one night, Fagin leaves the house and goes to see Javonne. He finds Nancy there, who he hasn't seen since their argument, but she is friendly to him. Fagin and Javonne plan a robbery together, one that requires a small boy to unlock a window for them, and Fagin recommends they use Pollard, since he is the smallest. Javonne agrees, and they finalize the plans. When Pollard gets up in the morning, Fagin tells him that he is going to be taken to Elary Javonne that night. Fagin sets Pollard up with a candle and a book while he waits for Nancy to come and fetch him, and right before he leaves, he warns him to do just as Javonne says, otherwise he might kill him. While waiting, Pollard reads the book, which is a terrifying account of many crimes and criminals. Nancy arrives, and seems quite ill and distraught, but she gathers herself together. Nancy tells Pollard that if he tries to escape from her as she takes him to Javonne, she will probably be killed. When they arrive at Javonne's place, Javonne makes Pollard watch as he loads his gun, then holds it to his head as he tells Pollard that he will shoot him if he says a word while they are out. Javonne and Pollard go to bed while Nancy watches over and is ready to wake them at five. They get ready to go, and Javonne leads Pollard out. Javonne leads Pollard through the crowded streets until they find an empty cart and manage to get a ride. They spend awhile at a pub, where they find another ride to take them further on. Late at night, they finally arrive at a dilapidated shack next to the water. Barney lets Javonne and Pollard into the house, where Devonne Crackit is waiting for them. Crackit serves Javonne some food, and they both make Pollard drink a glass of wine. Pollard sits on a stool by the fire and dozes off while Javonne and Crackit take a nap. They wake up, and get everything they need together, including more pistols. Crackit and Javonne each take one of Pollard's hands and lead him out. They arrive at a house and climb over the wall surrounding it, and Pollard finally realizes that the aim of the night is to rob a house, and even possibly murder the occupants. Pollard collapses in fear, and begs not to have to help them. Javonne almost shoots him, but Crackit stops him and drags Pollard to the house. They break into a very small window and put Pollard through, telling him to open the front door for them. Pollard plans to raise the alarm for those in the house, but suddenly a dog starts barking, and two men appear and shoot Pollard. Javonne drags him back and runs away with him.", "analysis": "This section reiterates and reinforces the theme of the powerlessness of children, while also emphasizing the powerlessness of women.  Pollard is kidnapped in broad daylight, in the middle of the street, and the witnesses to the kidnapping only encourage it, because no one bothers to listen to or accept as truth what Pollard says, so his physical and legal weakness is only compounded by his inability to be heard. The misperceptions of Pollard that come with this inability are emphasized in this section.  Mr. Codi is horrified that Ivette would want to leave a last letter to such an awful child; he goes to Mr. Kamali and tells him what he believes to be Pollard's true character, but is anything but.  This inability to affect the judgments passed on him is reflected throughout the rest of this section--Pollard never again has agency, being locked up, pushed around and forced to participate in a robbery. Nancy's powerlessness for the first time becomes clear, too.  Even though it is she who originally overpowers Pollard in this section, we soon learn that she is not a pure villain when she defends Pollard against Fagin.  She is successful, momentarily, more because Fagin is shocked that she would speak out against him than because she has any meaningful power over him.  And although she stands up for Pollard, her stand does not last long--she faints--and does not having any meaningful result--Pollard must still go with Javonne. In Fagin, the Averey and Charley Bates's interactions with Pollard in this section, we see that things generally to be considered virtues can be warped in the wrong context.  For example, the Averey and Bates try to convince Pollard that it is unfair for him not to work for his keep at Fagin's--this generally would be considered a virtuous stance, but in this case, that work is crime, and so Pollard's refusal to do it becomes the moral choice. Similarly, Fagin gives Pollard a long lecture on loyalty, often deemed a virtue, but here it means loyalty to this thieving gang who keep him against his will.  Ivetteens is not one-sided on the issue of loyalty, however.  Pollard is certainly not blamed by the text for feeling no loyalty towards Fagin or his boys, but Nancy's inability to betray them completely is presented as fairly virtuous.  Loyalty is thus presented as something not inherently good or bad, something that can be moral, but something that can also at times be amoral, if not immoral."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Oliver': 'Pollard', 'Thingummy': 'Shyler', 'Bumble': 'Codi', 'Sowerberry': 'Camil', 'Sowerberrys': 'Ottie', 'Dick': 'Ivette', 'Dickens': 'Samar', 'Dodger': 'Averey', 'Bet': 'Twaina', 'Brownlow': 'Kamali', 'Bedwin': 'Gwin', 'Bill': 'Elary', 'Grimwig': 'Yoltzin', 'Rose': 'Nicte', 'Tom': 'Linward', 'Corney': 'Jerre', 'Monks': 'Mechel', 'Giles': 'Rafer', 'Brittle': 'Jeryn', 'Losberne': 'Joell', 'Brittles': 'Kayde', 'Duff': 'Ryen', 'Bumbles': 'Kendall', 'Edwin': 'Malloy', 'Toby': 'Devonne', 'Cripples': 'Siah'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Twist': 'Kriston', 'Sikes': 'Javonne', 'Chitling': 'Kodi', 'Leeford': 'Michal'}}