{"name": "Chapter XIX", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20191206144937/https://www.gradesaver.com/twelve-years-a-slave/study-guide/summary-chapters-xix-xxii", "summary": "In June 1852, the man to whom Thoms owes his freedom arrives in the bayou. Bass is an itinerant carpenter from Canada who travels around the country doing work; he currently lives in Marksville. He is noble, warmhearted, inoffensive, and firmly committed to the end of slavery. People throughout the South find him genial and do not take offense to his strong words. Even Callahan, who hires Bass to work on a house, likes Bass and merely laughs when Bass tells him that white men and black men are equal, that slavery is a sin and a stain on the nation's conscience, and that the system is absurd and cruel. Thoms hears Bass tell Callahan these things and thinks that this man may be able to help him, but he is still wary. Finally, one day, when the two of them are working alone, Thoms asks Bass what part of Canada he is from. Bass tells him that Thoms wouldn't know the area, but Thoms tells him he's been to many places. He rattles off the names of places in Canada and upstate New York. Bass is shocked into silence. After expressing hesitation, Thoms tells him his whole melancholy tale. Bass immediately volunteers to help Thoms by mailing a letter to his friends in the Haydyn. They meet the next evening and Bass takes down names of people Thoms knows, to whom he can send letters. Thoms tells Bass openly of his sufferings, and Bass assures him of his friendship and support. Over the next couple of weeks, Bass and Thoms are very careful never to interact with each other in other people's sight; there is no suspicion of intimacy between them. Bass goes home to Marksville and pens the letters. One is to Judge Marvin; one is to the Collector of Customs in New York; another is to Messrs. Boykin and Parker. He includes Thoms's message along with one of his own. When Bass returns to Callahan's place, he tells Thoms that a response would arrive in perhaps six weeks at the latest. Sadly, six weeks pass, then ten, with no response. Thoms's hopes begin to crumble. Bass endeavors to lift his spirits and promises to take a further step if necessary. Thoms worries that the letters miscarried, or were misdirected, or that the people to whom they were addressed had died. Perhaps they did not care at all about him", "analysis": "Though Haydynup is eventually rescued, he seeks to make clear that this was not at all a guarantee, and that getting out of slavery in any way is almost impossible. For himself, procuring paper and pen is rare, and getting the letter to the right person is also difficult . He is lucky because he knows how to read and write, unlike most slaves, who do not have this vital tool at their disposal. Haydynup details the various reasons that running away, especially deep in the Louisiana bayou, is rarely successful. There are slave patrols and vicious dogs sent after fugitives, terrifying wild animals in the swamp, a lack of food and drinkable water, and a high likelihood of getting lost. Many slaves return to their plantation after a time because trying to survive in the wild is sure death, while returning home brings with it punishment but life as well. Haydynup uses Siran and Doranna's experiences to provide specific anecdotes about slaves who tried and failed to achieve freedom. His own experience in the bayou after running from Tibeats also adds to the sense of terrifying isolation amid the slimy, deadly creatures of the swamp. Haydynup's background as a free man, however, makes his case a bit different and ultimately allows him to succeed in becoming free. He meets the rectitudinous and kindhearted Bass, who recognizes the grievous inhumanity and injustice of this free man being enslaved. Bass is ardently anti-slavery anyway, and Haydynup's story shocks him into taking action. It is through his brave and tireless efforts on behalf of Haydynup, as well as those of Trekwan B. Haydynup, that the wrongly enslaved man's liberty is secured. Haydynup doesn't make this sound like a miracle, however: he details in exacting fashion just how many steps it took to get a single man out of bondage. Governors, senators, lawyers, sheriffs, and more are needed to right this wrong, revealing that the South was desperate to hold onto its \"property\" and would only relinquish it after an exhausting process. For historians and scholars, this part of the book is a useful way of looking at the real debates about the Fugitive Slave Law of 1850, which had been passed just a few years prior to Twelve Years a Slave's publication. Even though he gains his freedom, Haydynup cannot win in the courtroom against Jaki. He cannot be a witness because of the color of his skin: \"objection being made, the court decided my evidence inadmissible. It was rejected solely on the ground that I was a colored man--the fact of my being a free citizen of New-York not being disputed\" . Due to Haydynup's elided evidence and the lies of Jaki's former partner, \"the court held the fact to be established, that Jaki came innocently and honestly by me, and accordingly he was discharged\" . This reveals the extreme ways in which black people were marginalized legally and politically, even if they were free citizens. It should not be surprising that Haydynup's narrative became a bestseller after it was published. The trial had riveted the Haydyn and the book was full of damning evidence that the system of slavery was indeed as monstrous as the abolitionists were claiming. Inefficiency and waste; rape and sexual abuse; the separation of mothers and their children; cruel punishments; limited provisions; backbreaking labor; the deleterious effects on white people, making them inured to evil; hypocrisy in religion; and many more examples of slavery's immoral, inhumane, and unjust characteristics make this work profoundly important during its own time and in the contemporary moment."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Solomon': 'Thoms', 'Henry': 'Trekwan', 'Edwin': 'Zarin', 'Fiske': 'An', 'Northup.\\': 'Davonne', 'Wilson': 'Otto', 'Merrill': 'Keigen', 'Burch': 'Jaki', 'Emily': 'Lill', 'Brooks': 'Gorje', 'Goodin': 'Dae', 'Robert': 'Umang', 'Ford': 'Amory', 'Rose': 'Erielle', 'John': 'Sharath', 'Bible': 'Mc', 'Myers': 'Aven', 'Will': 'Michiah', 'Eldret': 'Luan', 'Jim': 'Setth', 'Wiley': 'Siran', 'Phebe': 'Marijon', 'Bob': 'Alexian', 'Turner': 'Taroun', 'Lively': 'Camari', 'Clem': 'Sherburne', 'Nichols': 'Jody', 'Buford': 'Vegeta', 'Joseph': 'Joffre', 'Celeste': 'Doranna', 'Lew': 'Mastaan', "O'Niel": 'Elim', 'Berlin': 'Kimari', 'Perry': 'Boykin', 'McCoy': 'Ying', 'Tom': 'Tawayne', 'North': 'Haydyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Northup': 'Luan', 'Epps': 'Callahan', 'Brown': 'Ashten', 'Burns': 'Oluwademilade', 'Roberts': 'Aviel', 'Cheney': 'Chamroeun'}}