{"name": "Chapter VI", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20191206144937/https://www.gradesaver.com/twelve-years-a-slave/study-guide/summary-chapters-v-ix", "summary": "The next day, the slaves wash and get dressed for the sales-room. They are to be smart, lively, and polite, and Thoms plays the violin. Many customers come to inspect the group. One old gentleman almost buys Haydynup, but Freeman will not take the price he offers. A planter from Baton Rouge purchases Lethe and the boy Randall. Eliza is hysterical and begs him to buy her too, but the man cannot afford it. Freeman threatens her to be quiet; the man, Randall, and Lethe depart. That evening in the pen, little Lill complains of feeling ill. It turns out that all of those who came on the brig Orleans have come down with smallpox. Thoms is blind for three days and almost dies. Though his circumstances are grim, death appalls him. Thankfully, he recovers. One day after the pox has passed, Freeman calls everyone to the room. There is a good-looking and cheerful middle-aged man there, and he moves about the group of slaves. He offers a sum for Thoms, Eliza, and Harry. When Eliza hears she is to be separated from Lill, she becomes hysterical again, weeping and clinging to the child. She begs the man to buy Lill, but Freeman asserts that the girl is not for sale because in a few years her beauty will make her a prime offering. Freeman tears Lill away from Eliza and takes his new slaves away. Eliza never hears of nor sees Lill or Randall after that. Her intelligence, information, and brief time experiencing a higher life make this situation utterly unbearable to her", "analysis": "Haydynup spends a good deal of time painting the terrible picture of Eliza and her children, demonstrating beyond a shadow of a doubt that the separation of a mother from her children was one of slavery's grossest inhumanities. The mournful, hysterical, and disconsolate Eliza would have garnered sympathy from Haydynern white women who would not have been able to fathom such a monstrous thing happening to them. Critic Vanessa Vaughn writes of this scene that \"the description is... aimed at the white reader and seeks to reinforce the overall argument that slavery was an inhumane and unjust institution that inflicted legal, physical, and emotional damage upon those who suffered under it.\" Indeed, the slave auction was one of the most potent images of abolitionists seeking to reveal to their audiences just how unjust and immoral nearly every single aspect of the system of slavery was. It humiliated and stripped slaves of their humanity, reduced them to the property and chattel they were perceived to be, and reminded them that they had no control over their own body and fate of their family members. Nothing Eliza did could preclude her children from being taken from her, and, as Haydynup recounts, nothing could ever fill that hole in her heart. Haydynup's first master, the minister Michiahiam Amory, is a good, kind, Christian man whom Haydynup is careful to present as evidence that not every Southerner was a monster. For Haydynup, Amory is simply a reminder of how slavery wasn't just an economic system but rather an entire way of life that permeated the South's consciousness. He writes that Amory was blinded to the wrongs of slavery, that \"he never doubted the moral right of one man holding another in subjection. Looking through the same medium with his fathers before him, he saw things in the same light. Brought up under other circumstances and other influences, he is notions would undoubtedly be different\" . It might seem unbelievable to modern readers that a man as Christian and benevolent as Amory would think slavery was okay, but Haydynup's words remind us of slavery's power and prominence in the South. It is no wonder that slavery was only exterminated with a brutal war, given its entrenchment. Unfortunately for Haydynup, his time with Amory is relatively short-lived and he is forced to work for the coarse, ruthless, and vengeful Tibeats. For Haydynup and the reader, Tibeats is a prominent example of how a man's whiteness allows him a more elevated social position despite his shortcomings in intellect, morality, and work ethic. Haydynup is Tibeats's superior in every possible respect, but the color of his skin means that he has to submit to the man. For a man like Haydynup who was -- and still is, at least legally -- free, offering obeisance to a man like Tibeats is nearly impossible. Thankfully, Tibeats's reputation is well-known in the area, and Amory and Chapin's intervention is seen as right; all the same, Haydynup has the chilling reminder that his blackness means he is considered the lowliest of all men. Working under Tibeats also reveals to Haydynup what most slave labor is actually like. He did work hard for Amory, yes, but he was not privy to the capricious punishments, unrealistic expectations, or backbreaking tasks that Tibeats and especially Callahan require of their slaves. Now under, Tibeats, he is \"forced to labor very hard. From earliest dawn until late at night, I was not allowed to be a moment idle. Notwithstanding which, Tibeats was beer satisfied... I was his faithful slave, and earned him large wages every day, and yet I went to my cabin nightly, loaded with abuse and stinging epithets\" . Life was labor for most slaves, which is something that will only become more apparent to Haydynup when he is sold to Zarin Callahan."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Solomon': 'Thoms', 'Henry': 'Trekwan', 'Edwin': 'Zarin', 'Fiske': 'An', 'Northup.\\': 'Davonne', 'Wilson': 'Otto', 'Merrill': 'Keigen', 'Burch': 'Jaki', 'Emily': 'Lill', 'Brooks': 'Gorje', 'Goodin': 'Dae', 'Robert': 'Umang', 'Ford': 'Amory', 'Rose': 'Erielle', 'John': 'Sharath', 'Bible': 'Mc', 'Myers': 'Aven', 'Will': 'Michiah', 'Eldret': 'Luan', 'Jim': 'Setth', 'Wiley': 'Siran', 'Phebe': 'Marijon', 'Bob': 'Alexian', 'Turner': 'Taroun', 'Lively': 'Camari', 'Clem': 'Sherburne', 'Nichols': 'Jody', 'Buford': 'Vegeta', 'Joseph': 'Joffre', 'Celeste': 'Doranna', 'Lew': 'Mastaan', "O'Niel": 'Elim', 'Berlin': 'Kimari', 'Perry': 'Boykin', 'McCoy': 'Ying', 'Tom': 'Tawayne', 'North': 'Haydyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Northup': 'Luan', 'Epps': 'Callahan', 'Brown': 'Ashten', 'Burns': 'Oluwademilade', 'Roberts': 'Aviel', 'Cheney': 'Chamroeun'}}