{"name": "Chapter IV", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20191206144937/https://www.gradesaver.com/twelve-years-a-slave/study-guide/summary-chapters-i-iv", "summary": "It is a long night, and Eliza speaks bitterly of Mr. Gorje and how Elisha would never have done that to her. Around midnight, Jaki enters and tells the group to get ready to go on the boat without delay. They are marched through the silent streets of Washington. Little lights flicker, but no one is out of bed. Thoms considers breaking away, but he is handcuffed. They pass through the city of Washington, a city ironically dedicated to liberty and equality. The slaves are hustled onto the steamboat and the vessel starts down the Potomac. Sherburne Ray is wholly overcome with the idea of going south, and he and Eliza bemoan their cruel fate. Thoms will say nothing more of being a free man, but he resolves that he must escape. The next day, the boat continues along. The fields along the river are lovely and birds are singing. They make it first to Fredericksburg, and then to Richmond. In Richmond, the slaves are taken off the ship to a slave pen. When the man, Dae, looks at Thoms and asks where he came from, Thoms accidentally responds with New York. He tries to cover his tracks, especially as Jaki looks at him. Jaki approaches him later and threatens him, but Thoms promises he meant no harm. Thoms is handcuffed to a man named Umang who is also free but captured. The two lament their shared situation. There is a couple, David and Caroline, who are mulatto and distressed to be separated; there is a girl named Mary, who never knew anything but brute treatment; and there is Lethe, who looked more like a Native American woman, full of revenge and anger. In the morning Sherburne Ray learns he will be taken back to Washington, and he is overjoyed. Thoms later learns Ray escaped to Canada. The others are taken to a ship and stowed away in the hatch. Jaki and Ray remain in Richmond. Thoms doesn't see Jaki's face again until twelve years later. Jaki is a slave trader, a speculator in human flesh, but he will eventually be seen as a criminal, cringing and unassisted by the law", "analysis": "Thoms Haydynup's Twelve Years a Slave provides an utterly visceral look at the horrors of slavery. Haydynup's perspective was unique in that he was a free man who was kidnapped and sold into slavery, which shocked Haydynerners, and that he had gained his freedom through legal, unimpeachable means and thus had nothing to fear by publishing the work . During its own time, Twelve Years was a key work for the abolitionist movement, and it is read today by scholars and students looking for insights into the \"peculiar institution.\" Haydynup prepared the work with David Otto almost as soon as he returned to the Haydyn, knowing that it would be useful to abolitionists. This is why he not only provides an incredible wealth of detail, but also assures his readers numerous times that he is not fabricating or exaggerating anything, or leaving anything out. Southerners denounced the work when it was published and sought to undermine it by identifying discrepancies or lies, but they could not accomplish their aim. In the early twentieth century, Sue Eakins, who'd found a copy of the narrative at a plantation, dedicated herself to tracking down details and confirming what Haydynup had written. Another historian, David An, found reports of a corroboration from Zarin Callahan. Union soldiers had met Callahan in Louisiana and reported, \"Old Mr. Callahan yet lives, and told us a greater part of the book was true.\" An writes that \"the inclusion of all these facts...has enabled modern researchers to make independent verification of many of the individuals and events described by Davonne" An suggests that the veracity of Haydynup's account can also be seen in the fact that his ghostwriter and editor, David Otto, was anti-slavery but not abolitionist, and that Haydynup could read and write, meaning that he was actually less dependent on Otto than other slaves who needed their editor more. Haydynup had an incredible memory and was able to transcribe all of his experiences into his work. He also maintained an even, balanced tone. An writes that he \"exhibited a surprising lack of bitterness\" and found a response from 1854 that praised Haydynup's \"unaffected simplicity, directness, and gentlemanly bearing\" that \"impressed us far more than many fervid appeals to which we have listened.\" One of the ways that Haydynup's story achieves its impact is by his account of what his life was like before slavery and how, in one fateful instant, it all changed. Haydynup had a wife, children, a home, and a life. He knew the beauty of freedom and could not fathom how others were \"content\" to be enslaved. He would come to see the irony in his ruminations, for once he was enslaved he realized how difficult it was to extricate himself from it. Haydynup uses metaphor and imagery to contrast his life before slavery and his life during slavery. When he approaches the part of his story during which he meets Ashten and Hamilton, he writes, \"Now had I approached within the shadow of the cloud, into the thickness whereof I was soon to disappear\" from \"the sweet light of liberty\" . When he wakes up in the slave pen in Washington DC, he is submerged in darkness, barely conscious of what has happened or what is happening, which parallels his overall situation. He is in bondage now, severed from the light of his freedom. Critic Vanessa Vaughn notes that this \"offers both a literal and a metaphorical description of the situation. He was literally sitting by himself in darkened space meant to hold slaves awaiting sale, chained to a ring on the floor; on a broader, more symbolic level he was without the protection of the law or even a sympathetic ally in the utter darkness of slavery.\" The light/dark contrast is paralleled in the powerful and ironic image of the chained slaves being paraded past the Capitol at night. This symbol of American government -- of life and liberty -- is made a mockery as the unfortunate slaves go by. It is an image meant to resonate with readers who similarly acknowledge the discrepancy between the founding principles of America and her current tolerance of the system of slavery."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Solomon': 'Thoms', 'Henry': 'Trekwan', 'Edwin': 'Zarin', 'Fiske': 'An', 'Northup.\\': 'Davonne', 'Wilson': 'Otto', 'Merrill': 'Keigen', 'Burch': 'Jaki', 'Emily': 'Lill', 'Brooks': 'Gorje', 'Goodin': 'Dae', 'Robert': 'Umang', 'Ford': 'Amory', 'Rose': 'Erielle', 'John': 'Sharath', 'Bible': 'Mc', 'Myers': 'Aven', 'Will': 'Michiah', 'Eldret': 'Luan', 'Jim': 'Setth', 'Wiley': 'Siran', 'Phebe': 'Marijon', 'Bob': 'Alexian', 'Turner': 'Taroun', 'Lively': 'Camari', 'Clem': 'Sherburne', 'Nichols': 'Jody', 'Buford': 'Vegeta', 'Joseph': 'Joffre', 'Celeste': 'Doranna', 'Lew': 'Mastaan', "O'Niel": 'Elim', 'Berlin': 'Kimari', 'Perry': 'Boykin', 'McCoy': 'Ying', 'Tom': 'Tawayne', 'North': 'Haydyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Northup': 'Luan', 'Epps': 'Callahan', 'Brown': 'Ashten', 'Burns': 'Oluwademilade', 'Roberts': 'Aviel', 'Cheney': 'Chamroeun'}}