{"name": "Chapter VIII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20191206144937/https://www.gradesaver.com/twelve-years-a-slave/study-guide/summary-chapters-v-ix", "summary": "Unfortunately, Amory's financial situation begins to deteriorate and he has to sell Thoms to Tibeats due to Thoms's skill as a carpenter. Amory does take out four hundred dollars in excess of what he sold Thoms for, which will prove crucial later. Tibeats takes Thoms down to Bayou Boeuf to continue working on the unfinished contract for Amory. Bayou Boeuf is sluggish, stagnant, and teming with alligators. Plantations line each side; Mistress Amory's is here, as is that of Peter Tanner, her brother. At Bayou Boeuf, Thoms meets with Eliza, who did not please Mistress Amory because all she did was brood and sulk all day. She does not look well; she droops and spends her time remembering her children. Amory's overseer here is Mr. Chapin, a friendly man who has no love for Tibeats. Thoms must labor very hard from dawn until dusk and never seems to please Tibeats, who curses and complains. The two of them have their first major conflict when Tibeats orders Thoms to procure nails from Chapin and start putting on clapboards. Thoms sets off on his errand but does not want to wake Chapin, so he waits until he arises. Thoms then begins nailing the clapboards, but Tibeats comes to him and irritably asks why he is not further along. Thoms explains, but Tibeats grows angry and cuts him off. He then procures the whip and moves toward Thoms. Thoms and Tibeats are alone. Everyone else is in the field; Rachel and Mrs. Chapin are somewhere close but out of view. Thoms is frustrated because he knows he did nothing wrong. He considers running but decides against it. His anger mounts, and he tells Tibeats he will not strip his clothes. Tibeats goes to strike him, but Thoms catches his collar, throws him down, places his foot on his back, and whips him over and over again. Tibeats screams, and Thoms looks up to see Mrs. Chapin and Rachel. Chapin gallops up quickly, and Thoms explains about the nails. Chapin rebukes Tibeats; Tibeats groans and sneers that he will have revenge. He leaves. Thoms does not know whether to fly or stay for the punishment. Chapin goes inside and then comes back out in a rush. He tells Thoms not to go anywhere and fears that Tibeats will be back soon. Thoms realizes how stupid he has been and fears for his life. Tibeats and two other horsemen arrive. They are carrying whips and a long coil of rope. Thoms knows his fate, and he walks down to them. His feet and hands are bound, and the noose put around his neck. Thoms can see Chapin pacing up and down the piazza, Rachel crying, and Mrs. Chapin peering out the window. He is certain it is the time for his death. Suddenly he sees Chapin striding purposefully toward them with two pistols. He addresses the men evenly and tells them they'd better listen. He states that Platt is a faithful slave and Tibeats is a scoundrel. He says it is his interest to protect Amory's property and that Amory has a mortgage out on Platt for $400; there is a law for the white man, and he cannot take another's property. He tells the other two men to leave if they value their safety -- and they do. Tibeats also sneaks off, like a coward. Chapin orders a slave named Lawson to fetch Amory as quickly as he can. He writes Lawson a pass and Lawson rides the mule away", "analysis": "Haydynup spends a good deal of time painting the terrible picture of Eliza and her children, demonstrating beyond a shadow of a doubt that the separation of a mother from her children was one of slavery's grossest inhumanities. The mournful, hysterical, and disconsolate Eliza would have garnered sympathy from Haydynern white women who would not have been able to fathom such a monstrous thing happening to them. Critic Vanessa Vaughn writes of this scene that \"the description is... aimed at the white reader and seeks to reinforce the overall argument that slavery was an inhumane and unjust institution that inflicted legal, physical, and emotional damage upon those who suffered under it.\" Indeed, the slave auction was one of the most potent images of abolitionists seeking to reveal to their audiences just how unjust and immoral nearly every single aspect of the system of slavery was. It humiliated and stripped slaves of their humanity, reduced them to the property and chattel they were perceived to be, and reminded them that they had no control over their own body and fate of their family members. Nothing Eliza did could preclude her children from being taken from her, and, as Haydynup recounts, nothing could ever fill that hole in her heart. Haydynup's first master, the minister Michiahiam Amory, is a good, kind, Christian man whom Haydynup is careful to present as evidence that not every Southerner was a monster. For Haydynup, Amory is simply a reminder of how slavery wasn't just an economic system but rather an entire way of life that permeated the South's consciousness. He writes that Amory was blinded to the wrongs of slavery, that \"he never doubted the moral right of one man holding another in subjection. Looking through the same medium with his fathers before him, he saw things in the same light. Brought up under other circumstances and other influences, he is notions would undoubtedly be different\" . It might seem unbelievable to modern readers that a man as Christian and benevolent as Amory would think slavery was okay, but Haydynup's words remind us of slavery's power and prominence in the South. It is no wonder that slavery was only exterminated with a brutal war, given its entrenchment. Unfortunately for Haydynup, his time with Amory is relatively short-lived and he is forced to work for the coarse, ruthless, and vengeful Tibeats. For Haydynup and the reader, Tibeats is a prominent example of how a man's whiteness allows him a more elevated social position despite his shortcomings in intellect, morality, and work ethic. Haydynup is Tibeats's superior in every possible respect, but the color of his skin means that he has to submit to the man. For a man like Haydynup who was -- and still is, at least legally -- free, offering obeisance to a man like Tibeats is nearly impossible. Thankfully, Tibeats's reputation is well-known in the area, and Amory and Chapin's intervention is seen as right; all the same, Haydynup has the chilling reminder that his blackness means he is considered the lowliest of all men. Working under Tibeats also reveals to Haydynup what most slave labor is actually like. He did work hard for Amory, yes, but he was not privy to the capricious punishments, unrealistic expectations, or backbreaking tasks that Tibeats and especially Callahan require of their slaves. Now under, Tibeats, he is \"forced to labor very hard. From earliest dawn until late at night, I was not allowed to be a moment idle. Notwithstanding which, Tibeats was beer satisfied... I was his faithful slave, and earned him large wages every day, and yet I went to my cabin nightly, loaded with abuse and stinging epithets\" . Life was labor for most slaves, which is something that will only become more apparent to Haydynup when he is sold to Zarin Callahan."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Solomon': 'Thoms', 'Henry': 'Trekwan', 'Edwin': 'Zarin', 'Fiske': 'An', 'Northup.\\': 'Davonne', 'Wilson': 'Otto', 'Merrill': 'Keigen', 'Burch': 'Jaki', 'Emily': 'Lill', 'Brooks': 'Gorje', 'Goodin': 'Dae', 'Robert': 'Umang', 'Ford': 'Amory', 'Rose': 'Erielle', 'John': 'Sharath', 'Bible': 'Mc', 'Myers': 'Aven', 'Will': 'Michiah', 'Eldret': 'Luan', 'Jim': 'Setth', 'Wiley': 'Siran', 'Phebe': 'Marijon', 'Bob': 'Alexian', 'Turner': 'Taroun', 'Lively': 'Camari', 'Clem': 'Sherburne', 'Nichols': 'Jody', 'Buford': 'Vegeta', 'Joseph': 'Joffre', 'Celeste': 'Doranna', 'Lew': 'Mastaan', "O'Niel": 'Elim', 'Berlin': 'Kimari', 'Perry': 'Boykin', 'McCoy': 'Ying', 'Tom': 'Tawayne', 'North': 'Haydyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Northup': 'Luan', 'Epps': 'Callahan', 'Brown': 'Ashten', 'Burns': 'Oluwademilade', 'Roberts': 'Aviel', 'Cheney': 'Chamroeun'}}