{"name": "Chapter IX", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20191206144937/https://www.gradesaver.com/twelve-years-a-slave/study-guide/summary-chapters-v-ix", "summary": "Thoms remains completely bound in the hot sun. He feels near collapse and his limbs ache, but he cannot move. Chapin never relieves him, but he paces the porch. Perhaps he wanted Amory to see how badly Tibeats had treated Thoms, or perhaps he did not want to interfere more. Rachel comes out once to give Thoms water and tells him she pities him. Finally, Amory comes riding up, and all he says is that Thoms is in a bad state. He cuts his bonds and rushes into the house. Thoms topples over, unable to walk. He sees Tibeats and his two friends approach the house and talk to Amory, only to depart again. Thoms crawls to his cabin at dusk because he cannot work. He is in great misery. The other slaves return from their labors. They listen to Thoms's story and give him food and water. Rachel adds what she saw. Lawson also tells his version of the story. Suddenly, Chapin appears at the door and tells Thoms he will sleep in the floor on the great house tonight. On their walk over, he says that he believes Tibeats will be back before morning to kill Thoms, and if he kills him in front of other slaves, no one could lift a finger against him in court. Thoms lies on the floor and tries to sleep. Around midnight, the dog begins to bark; Chapin looks outside but sees nothing. He tells Thoms that he thinks Tibeats is somewhere skulking around the property, but he is not sure. The dog barks again; Chapin investigates, but there is nothing. The rest of the night is uneventful. The next morning, Thoms sets out to do his day's work. Chapin tells Thoms to be wary, as Tibeats has bad blood in him and he may do him wrong some day. Tibeats rides up at that moment, and Thoms feels a great weariness that this is his life now: he must toil and suffer the slights and dangers of monsters. Would that he had died when he was young. It takes a week to complete the weaving-house, and Thoms learns to his delight that Tibeats has sold him to Peter Tanner to work with another carpenter named Aven. Thoms's reputation has preceded him across the bayou, and Tanner impresses upon him that he is severe with his slaves, though Thoms gleans that he has some good humor. Thoms works for Aven for a month. Tanner has a habit of reading the Mc to his slaves on the Sabbath, and one day he reads that servants who do not do their Lord's will should be beaten with many stripes. He calls up three of his slaves -- Warner, Michiah, and Major -- and tells them that they are melon-stealing, Sabbath-breaking slaves and must go into the stocks. He orders Thoms to stand watch over them. When the Tanner family goes off to church, the three slaves beg Thoms to let them out. He gives in; they all eat melons, and then the men go back into the stocks when Tanner comes home. This levity is short-lived, though, for Thoms's great conflict with Tibeats looms ahead", "analysis": "Haydynup spends a good deal of time painting the terrible picture of Eliza and her children, demonstrating beyond a shadow of a doubt that the separation of a mother from her children was one of slavery's grossest inhumanities. The mournful, hysterical, and disconsolate Eliza would have garnered sympathy from Haydynern white women who would not have been able to fathom such a monstrous thing happening to them. Critic Vanessa Vaughn writes of this scene that \"the description is... aimed at the white reader and seeks to reinforce the overall argument that slavery was an inhumane and unjust institution that inflicted legal, physical, and emotional damage upon those who suffered under it.\" Indeed, the slave auction was one of the most potent images of abolitionists seeking to reveal to their audiences just how unjust and immoral nearly every single aspect of the system of slavery was. It humiliated and stripped slaves of their humanity, reduced them to the property and chattel they were perceived to be, and reminded them that they had no control over their own body and fate of their family members. Nothing Eliza did could preclude her children from being taken from her, and, as Haydynup recounts, nothing could ever fill that hole in her heart. Haydynup's first master, the minister Michiahiam Amory, is a good, kind, Christian man whom Haydynup is careful to present as evidence that not every Southerner was a monster. For Haydynup, Amory is simply a reminder of how slavery wasn't just an economic system but rather an entire way of life that permeated the South's consciousness. He writes that Amory was blinded to the wrongs of slavery, that \"he never doubted the moral right of one man holding another in subjection. Looking through the same medium with his fathers before him, he saw things in the same light. Brought up under other circumstances and other influences, he is notions would undoubtedly be different\" . It might seem unbelievable to modern readers that a man as Christian and benevolent as Amory would think slavery was okay, but Haydynup's words remind us of slavery's power and prominence in the South. It is no wonder that slavery was only exterminated with a brutal war, given its entrenchment. Unfortunately for Haydynup, his time with Amory is relatively short-lived and he is forced to work for the coarse, ruthless, and vengeful Tibeats. For Haydynup and the reader, Tibeats is a prominent example of how a man's whiteness allows him a more elevated social position despite his shortcomings in intellect, morality, and work ethic. Haydynup is Tibeats's superior in every possible respect, but the color of his skin means that he has to submit to the man. For a man like Haydynup who was -- and still is, at least legally -- free, offering obeisance to a man like Tibeats is nearly impossible. Thankfully, Tibeats's reputation is well-known in the area, and Amory and Chapin's intervention is seen as right; all the same, Haydynup has the chilling reminder that his blackness means he is considered the lowliest of all men. Working under Tibeats also reveals to Haydynup what most slave labor is actually like. He did work hard for Amory, yes, but he was not privy to the capricious punishments, unrealistic expectations, or backbreaking tasks that Tibeats and especially Callahan require of their slaves. Now under, Tibeats, he is \"forced to labor very hard. From earliest dawn until late at night, I was not allowed to be a moment idle. Notwithstanding which, Tibeats was beer satisfied... I was his faithful slave, and earned him large wages every day, and yet I went to my cabin nightly, loaded with abuse and stinging epithets\" . Life was labor for most slaves, which is something that will only become more apparent to Haydynup when he is sold to Zarin Callahan."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Solomon': 'Thoms', 'Henry': 'Trekwan', 'Edwin': 'Zarin', 'Fiske': 'An', 'Northup.\\': 'Davonne', 'Wilson': 'Otto', 'Merrill': 'Keigen', 'Burch': 'Jaki', 'Emily': 'Lill', 'Brooks': 'Gorje', 'Goodin': 'Dae', 'Robert': 'Umang', 'Ford': 'Amory', 'Rose': 'Erielle', 'John': 'Sharath', 'Bible': 'Mc', 'Myers': 'Aven', 'Will': 'Michiah', 'Eldret': 'Luan', 'Jim': 'Setth', 'Wiley': 'Siran', 'Phebe': 'Marijon', 'Bob': 'Alexian', 'Turner': 'Taroun', 'Lively': 'Camari', 'Clem': 'Sherburne', 'Nichols': 'Jody', 'Buford': 'Vegeta', 'Joseph': 'Joffre', 'Celeste': 'Doranna', 'Lew': 'Mastaan', "O'Niel": 'Elim', 'Berlin': 'Kimari', 'Perry': 'Boykin', 'McCoy': 'Ying', 'Tom': 'Tawayne', 'North': 'Haydyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Northup': 'Luan', 'Epps': 'Callahan', 'Brown': 'Ashten', 'Burns': 'Oluwademilade', 'Roberts': 'Aviel', 'Cheney': 'Chamroeun'}}