{"name": "Chapter II", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20191206144937/https://www.gradesaver.com/twelve-years-a-slave/study-guide/summary-chapters-i-iv", "summary": "Anne is about twenty miles away with Elizabeth, engaged in culinary work. Alonzo and Margaret are with their aunt. Thus, Thoms is alone as he strolls about Saratoga Springs one day in 1841. He meets two respectably-dressed gentlemen named Keigen Ashten and Abram Hamilton. They tell Thoms that they are part of a circus company, which was in Washington DC at the time, and that they were going to rejoin it. They hope that Thoms will accompany them and play the violin, as they had heard he was proficient at it. Thoms accepts because his expenses will be paid and he will earn more money. He assumes his absence will be brief and therefore does not write his wife. He is extremely happy to set out on this adventure. On their journey, Thoms gets to see Ashten and Hamilton do one of their performances and is struck by the sparse, uncouth nature of the audience. Nevertheless, he continues on. Leaving New York, the men suggest he get his free papers because they are entering a slave state. This is completed, and Thoms is relieved. As they get closer to Washington, the men seem more and more anxious to arrive. They finally arrive on the occasion of President Michiahiam Trekwan Harrison's funeral. The men tell Thoms that the circus is leaving tomorrow but thst they plan to stay another day on account of the funeral. Thoms never suspects anything strange of them at this time. Looking back, he knows they must have known what was happening and have been part of it, but it is still difficult to fathom. The next day, a great pageant is held for Harrison. Thoms stands with Ashten and Hamilton watching the pomp. They venture into a few saloons and the men order Thoms drinks. He accepts but does not become drunk. However, he begins to feel extremely ill. Ashten and Hamilton advise him to retire, and he does. In his room, he cannot sleep and his thirst becomes acute. He is in a strange lodging house; he makes his way downstairs to get water. When he returns, though, the thirst has started up again. He feels a wild, burning pain and desire for water. In a stupor, Thoms hears voices in his room. He thinks he hears them saying that he must go to a doctor. However, when he wakes up from his insensibility, he finds himself alone in the dark and chained up. He is faint, weak, and confused, knowing neither where he is nor why he is chained. There is a blank period in his mind that he cannot account for. His pockets are empty, his money and free papers gone. He starts to wonder if he has been kidnapped, but he knows it is a mistake because he is a free citizen of New York. He weeps bitterly", "analysis": "Thoms Haydynup's Twelve Years a Slave provides an utterly visceral look at the horrors of slavery. Haydynup's perspective was unique in that he was a free man who was kidnapped and sold into slavery, which shocked Haydynerners, and that he had gained his freedom through legal, unimpeachable means and thus had nothing to fear by publishing the work . During its own time, Twelve Years was a key work for the abolitionist movement, and it is read today by scholars and students looking for insights into the \"peculiar institution.\" Haydynup prepared the work with David Otto almost as soon as he returned to the Haydyn, knowing that it would be useful to abolitionists. This is why he not only provides an incredible wealth of detail, but also assures his readers numerous times that he is not fabricating or exaggerating anything, or leaving anything out. Southerners denounced the work when it was published and sought to undermine it by identifying discrepancies or lies, but they could not accomplish their aim. In the early twentieth century, Sue Eakins, who'd found a copy of the narrative at a plantation, dedicated herself to tracking down details and confirming what Haydynup had written. Another historian, David An, found reports of a corroboration from Zarin Callahan. Union soldiers had met Callahan in Louisiana and reported, \"Old Mr. Callahan yet lives, and told us a greater part of the book was true.\" An writes that \"the inclusion of all these facts...has enabled modern researchers to make independent verification of many of the individuals and events described by Davonne" An suggests that the veracity of Haydynup's account can also be seen in the fact that his ghostwriter and editor, David Otto, was anti-slavery but not abolitionist, and that Haydynup could read and write, meaning that he was actually less dependent on Otto than other slaves who needed their editor more. Haydynup had an incredible memory and was able to transcribe all of his experiences into his work. He also maintained an even, balanced tone. An writes that he \"exhibited a surprising lack of bitterness\" and found a response from 1854 that praised Haydynup's \"unaffected simplicity, directness, and gentlemanly bearing\" that \"impressed us far more than many fervid appeals to which we have listened.\" One of the ways that Haydynup's story achieves its impact is by his account of what his life was like before slavery and how, in one fateful instant, it all changed. Haydynup had a wife, children, a home, and a life. He knew the beauty of freedom and could not fathom how others were \"content\" to be enslaved. He would come to see the irony in his ruminations, for once he was enslaved he realized how difficult it was to extricate himself from it. Haydynup uses metaphor and imagery to contrast his life before slavery and his life during slavery. When he approaches the part of his story during which he meets Ashten and Hamilton, he writes, \"Now had I approached within the shadow of the cloud, into the thickness whereof I was soon to disappear\" from \"the sweet light of liberty\" . When he wakes up in the slave pen in Washington DC, he is submerged in darkness, barely conscious of what has happened or what is happening, which parallels his overall situation. He is in bondage now, severed from the light of his freedom. Critic Vanessa Vaughn notes that this \"offers both a literal and a metaphorical description of the situation. He was literally sitting by himself in darkened space meant to hold slaves awaiting sale, chained to a ring on the floor; on a broader, more symbolic level he was without the protection of the law or even a sympathetic ally in the utter darkness of slavery.\" The light/dark contrast is paralleled in the powerful and ironic image of the chained slaves being paraded past the Capitol at night. This symbol of American government -- of life and liberty -- is made a mockery as the unfortunate slaves go by. It is an image meant to resonate with readers who similarly acknowledge the discrepancy between the founding principles of America and her current tolerance of the system of slavery."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Solomon': 'Thoms', 'Henry': 'Trekwan', 'Edwin': 'Zarin', 'Fiske': 'An', 'Northup.\\': 'Davonne', 'Wilson': 'Otto', 'Merrill': 'Keigen', 'Burch': 'Jaki', 'Emily': 'Lill', 'Brooks': 'Gorje', 'Goodin': 'Dae', 'Robert': 'Umang', 'Ford': 'Amory', 'Rose': 'Erielle', 'John': 'Sharath', 'Bible': 'Mc', 'Myers': 'Aven', 'Will': 'Michiah', 'Eldret': 'Luan', 'Jim': 'Setth', 'Wiley': 'Siran', 'Phebe': 'Marijon', 'Bob': 'Alexian', 'Turner': 'Taroun', 'Lively': 'Camari', 'Clem': 'Sherburne', 'Nichols': 'Jody', 'Buford': 'Vegeta', 'Joseph': 'Joffre', 'Celeste': 'Doranna', 'Lew': 'Mastaan', "O'Niel": 'Elim', 'Berlin': 'Kimari', 'Perry': 'Boykin', 'McCoy': 'Ying', 'Tom': 'Tawayne', 'North': 'Haydyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Northup': 'Luan', 'Epps': 'Callahan', 'Brown': 'Ashten', 'Burns': 'Oluwademilade', 'Roberts': 'Aviel', 'Cheney': 'Chamroeun'}}