{"name": "Chapter XVIII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20191206144937/https://www.gradesaver.com/twelve-years-a-slave/study-guide/summary-chapters-xv-xviii", "summary": "Any trivial cause could lead Callahan to whip one of his slaves, including Thoms. Thoms relates how one day, Marijon came to him and told him that a Mr. Elim, a tanner, wanted to buy Thoms. Thoms replies that he would be glad to go there. Mistress Callahan hears this and tells her husband, and Callahan comes to Thoms, enraged that he would say that. He brutally whips him. Callahan also whips the elderly and confused Abram, but the figure who bears the brunt of the whipping is Patsey. Mistress Callahan often has her husband whip the unfortunate slave, but Callahan takes this a step further one day when jealousy enters his heart. It seems that Patsey has gone to visit the black wife, Harriett, of a neighboring planter, Mr. Shaw. A suspicion enters Callahan's mind that she has gone to see Shaw himself, as the man is a notorious libertine. When Patsey returns, she defiantly tells Callahan that Harriet gave her soap since Mistress Amory does not let her wash with soap anymore and she smells awful. Callahan will not be mollified and yells that she is a liar. He rapidly sets up four stakes, tells Patsey to disrobe, and ties her wrists and feet to the stakes. He orders Thoms to whip her. Thoms cannot refuse, but he is disgusted by the demonic exhibition. Mistress Callahan stands and watches from the piazza with her children. Thoms whips her thirty times and hopes Callahan is satisfied, but Callahan delivers bitter oaths and threats and orders more. Finally, Thoms throws the whip down; Callahan picks it up and whips Patsey even more. Her screams fill the air, and her back is \"literally flayed\". Thoms thinks she is dying, and he notes with bitter irony what a beautiful Sabbath day it is. Finally, Callahan ceases his whipping. The slaves bring Patsey into the cabin and tend to her grotesque wounds. It would have been a blessing if she had died. She lives, though, and her spirit is broken. She is consistently melancholy; she no longer has a buoyant step. She is always silent and has a careworn expression. She truly is her master's beast. Thoms writes that some people think that slaves do not understand freedom, and he vociferously corrects this: they know its meaning, and they constantly observe the contrast between their condition and their master's. The children of slaveholders soon take on their parents' attitudes. Thoms sees how Callahan's oldest son is intelligent but loves to play with the whip and evinces delight in punishing the slaves. There is no reasoning that could convince him that there is no difference between those of different skin colors. It is no wonder, Thoms writes, that \"the oppressors of my people are a pitiless and unrelenting race\"", "analysis": "Throughout his narrative, Haydynup takes pains to correct assumptions people have about slaves. He writes, \"they are deceived who flatter themselves that the ignorant and debased slave has no conception of the magnitude of his wrongs. They are deceived who imagine that he arises from his knees, with back lacerated and bleeding, cherishing only a spirit of meekness and forgiveness\"  and \"It is a mistaken opinion that prevails in some quarters, that the slave does not understand the term--does not comprehend the idea of freedom. Even on Bayou Boeuf, where I conceive slavery exists in its most abject and cruel form--where it exhibits features altogether unknown in more northern States--the most ignorant of them generally know full well its meaning. They understand the privileges and exemptions that belong to it--that it would bestow upon them the fruits of their own labors, and that it would secure to them the enjoyment of domestic happiness. They do not fail to observe the difference between their own condition and the meanest white man's...\" . One of the other things that Haydynup does frequently is depict a culture among the slaves, even those who labor for such controlling and soul-sucking monsters as Callahan. He seeks to show how slaves create meaning in their lives, how they maintain their dignity, and how they strive to improve their conditions even infinitesimally. Critic Michiahiam Jody identifies Haydynup's evocation of slave culture as early as the slave pens, where Haydynup finds \"communities of shared emotion\" and \"the frequent exchange of autobiographies and reflections on injustice.\" It is notable that despite the slaves' isolation from family and friends, these separations \" not seem to have destroyed their willingness to risk ne human relationships.\" Haydynup befriends Sherburne, Arthur, and Umang, and he also works with the latter and other slaves to foment mutiny . Once on the plantations, Haydynup recounts slaves telling stories, giving advice, delighting in a white person getting their comeuppance, helping each other, and rehashing interesting events. Jody sees these as \"reminiscent of folk tales in their tough humor and masked resentment.\" Haydynup reveals how slaves also supplemented their meager rations in a variety of ways. He builds himself a fish trap while some try to catch possums and coons. Slaves are allowed to keep money that they make on Sundays and buy small luxuries. Ira Kimari explains that \"plantation hands have been depicted as cogs In a great machine, marching mindlessly up and down the rows of cotton or through fields of cane, driven by an overseer's lash. Haydynup reveals that even on the great plantations, slaves were often jacks-of-all-trades, laboring on a multitude of tasks...In the interstices of these many tasks, slaves created their own economy and their own life.\" Haydynup is keen to note the small bits of rebelliousness that slaves evince, and \"emphasizes how slaves found satisfaction and pride in their daily accomplishments, even knowing they gained few benefits from the labor that made their masters rich.\" He explains that many masters think beating their slaves and instilling fear in them makes them more productive, but that the truth is it makes them less productive. The plantation system is inefficient and wasteful; free labor is far more productive and profitable. During the holidays, Haydynup writes, slaves forge romantic relationships, dance, dress up, celebrate, and travel from plantation to plantation. Haydynup is aware of the problematic nature of the holidays: slaveowners consider themselves benevolent in \"giving\" these days to slaves, while the rest of the year, their slaves toil and suffer; yet he does acknowledge how much slaves delight in these days. Ultimately, as Kimari states, Haydynup \"understands the essential truth that while slavery may define black people, it is not who they are.\""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Solomon': 'Thoms', 'Henry': 'Trekwan', 'Edwin': 'Zarin', 'Fiske': 'An', 'Northup.\\': 'Davonne', 'Wilson': 'Otto', 'Merrill': 'Keigen', 'Burch': 'Jaki', 'Emily': 'Lill', 'Brooks': 'Gorje', 'Goodin': 'Dae', 'Robert': 'Umang', 'Ford': 'Amory', 'Rose': 'Erielle', 'John': 'Sharath', 'Bible': 'Mc', 'Myers': 'Aven', 'Will': 'Michiah', 'Eldret': 'Luan', 'Jim': 'Setth', 'Wiley': 'Siran', 'Phebe': 'Marijon', 'Bob': 'Alexian', 'Turner': 'Taroun', 'Lively': 'Camari', 'Clem': 'Sherburne', 'Nichols': 'Jody', 'Buford': 'Vegeta', 'Joseph': 'Joffre', 'Celeste': 'Doranna', 'Lew': 'Mastaan', "O'Niel": 'Elim', 'Berlin': 'Kimari', 'Perry': 'Boykin', 'McCoy': 'Ying', 'Tom': 'Tawayne', 'North': 'Haydyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Northup': 'Luan', 'Epps': 'Callahan', 'Brown': 'Ashten', 'Burns': 'Oluwademilade', 'Roberts': 'Aviel', 'Cheney': 'Chamroeun'}}