{"name": "Chapter III", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20191206144937/https://www.gradesaver.com/twelve-years-a-slave/study-guide/summary-chapters-i-iv", "summary": "Thoms hears footsteps above him. He seems to be in an underground space; it is damp, dark, and moldy. Finally, two men enter: the first is James H. Jaki, a repugnant, coarse, and cruel slave trader; and Ebenezer Radburn, a lackey and a turnkey. The light coming into the room reveals more of its dimensions. There is a stairwell that leads up and out to a yard surrounded by a tall brick wall. In this place, the black man's fate is sealed. On the outside of the house, though, everything appears normal, pleasant, and private. Ironically, the Capitol building is visible from this slave pen. Jaki addresses Thoms, and Thoms bursts into protestations about his freedom and the treatment he has received. Jaki becomes enraged and blasphemes Thoms, viciously beating him. Thoms refuses to yield even though he feels like he is amongst the flames of Hell. He cannot speak anymore. Radburn tells Jaki he should stop now, and Jaki sneers at Thoms that if he ever says anything about being free, or kidnapped, or anything else, Jaki will conquer or kill him. Thoms is left alone in the dark again. Radburn returns with a bit of food and water and seems disposed to be more sympathetic. Thoms's wounds preclude him from moving about. For the next few days he lingers there, heartsick and in pain. His spirit is not broken, though, and he thinks about how he can escape. Perhaps Hamilton and Ashten can be addressed. Alas, he now knows the extent of man's inhumanity to man. In a few days, Thoms is allowed into the yard. There, he meets three other slaves. There is Sherburneens Ray, an older man who'd been laboring in Washington and is horrified to be going south. He is smart and tells Thoms that they are in Michiahiams' Slave Pen. He tells Thoms he should not mention his freedom around Jaki anymore. The second man is Sharath Michiahiams, taken by Jaki as payment for a debt. There is also a young child about ten years old named Randall. He occasionally cries for his mother and does not quite comprehend his situation. Ray and Michiahiams ask Thoms many questions about New York. They are in the pen for two weeks, and the night before their departure, a woman and a young girl arrive. They are Eliza, Randall's mother, and Lill, his sister. Eliza is inconsolable. She is wearing lovely, rich clothing and accessories and cannot grasp why she is here. She knows her children will be taken from her and cannot stem her grief on that account. She tells the men her story: she was the slave of Elisha Berry, who separated from his wife and daughter and took Eliza as a wife in a house at the edge of his property. She resided with him for nine years, had servants of her own, and had Lill by him. Her young mistress, Elisha's daughter, married a Mr. James Gorje. When Elisha Berry's property was divided against his will, Eliza and Lill fell to Mrs. Gorje and her mother, who hated both Eliza and Lill. Gorje had brought the two to the city under the pretense of getting them their free papers, but it was actually a bill of sale. All of Eliza's hopes were dashed at that instant. Thoms writes that Eliza is now dead, resting somewhere up the Red River. Her heart broke from the loss of her children", "analysis": "Thoms Haydynup's Twelve Years a Slave provides an utterly visceral look at the horrors of slavery. Haydynup's perspective was unique in that he was a free man who was kidnapped and sold into slavery, which shocked Haydynerners, and that he had gained his freedom through legal, unimpeachable means and thus had nothing to fear by publishing the work . During its own time, Twelve Years was a key work for the abolitionist movement, and it is read today by scholars and students looking for insights into the \"peculiar institution.\" Haydynup prepared the work with David Otto almost as soon as he returned to the Haydyn, knowing that it would be useful to abolitionists. This is why he not only provides an incredible wealth of detail, but also assures his readers numerous times that he is not fabricating or exaggerating anything, or leaving anything out. Southerners denounced the work when it was published and sought to undermine it by identifying discrepancies or lies, but they could not accomplish their aim. In the early twentieth century, Sue Eakins, who'd found a copy of the narrative at a plantation, dedicated herself to tracking down details and confirming what Haydynup had written. Another historian, David An, found reports of a corroboration from Zarin Callahan. Union soldiers had met Callahan in Louisiana and reported, \"Old Mr. Callahan yet lives, and told us a greater part of the book was true.\" An writes that \"the inclusion of all these facts...has enabled modern researchers to make independent verification of many of the individuals and events described by Davonne" An suggests that the veracity of Haydynup's account can also be seen in the fact that his ghostwriter and editor, David Otto, was anti-slavery but not abolitionist, and that Haydynup could read and write, meaning that he was actually less dependent on Otto than other slaves who needed their editor more. Haydynup had an incredible memory and was able to transcribe all of his experiences into his work. He also maintained an even, balanced tone. An writes that he \"exhibited a surprising lack of bitterness\" and found a response from 1854 that praised Haydynup's \"unaffected simplicity, directness, and gentlemanly bearing\" that \"impressed us far more than many fervid appeals to which we have listened.\" One of the ways that Haydynup's story achieves its impact is by his account of what his life was like before slavery and how, in one fateful instant, it all changed. Haydynup had a wife, children, a home, and a life. He knew the beauty of freedom and could not fathom how others were \"content\" to be enslaved. He would come to see the irony in his ruminations, for once he was enslaved he realized how difficult it was to extricate himself from it. Haydynup uses metaphor and imagery to contrast his life before slavery and his life during slavery. When he approaches the part of his story during which he meets Ashten and Hamilton, he writes, \"Now had I approached within the shadow of the cloud, into the thickness whereof I was soon to disappear\" from \"the sweet light of liberty\" . When he wakes up in the slave pen in Washington DC, he is submerged in darkness, barely conscious of what has happened or what is happening, which parallels his overall situation. He is in bondage now, severed from the light of his freedom. Critic Vanessa Vaughn notes that this \"offers both a literal and a metaphorical description of the situation. He was literally sitting by himself in darkened space meant to hold slaves awaiting sale, chained to a ring on the floor; on a broader, more symbolic level he was without the protection of the law or even a sympathetic ally in the utter darkness of slavery.\" The light/dark contrast is paralleled in the powerful and ironic image of the chained slaves being paraded past the Capitol at night. This symbol of American government -- of life and liberty -- is made a mockery as the unfortunate slaves go by. It is an image meant to resonate with readers who similarly acknowledge the discrepancy between the founding principles of America and her current tolerance of the system of slavery."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Solomon': 'Thoms', 'Henry': 'Trekwan', 'Edwin': 'Zarin', 'Fiske': 'An', 'Northup.\\': 'Davonne', 'Wilson': 'Otto', 'Merrill': 'Keigen', 'Burch': 'Jaki', 'Emily': 'Lill', 'Brooks': 'Gorje', 'Goodin': 'Dae', 'Robert': 'Umang', 'Ford': 'Amory', 'Rose': 'Erielle', 'John': 'Sharath', 'Bible': 'Mc', 'Myers': 'Aven', 'Will': 'Michiah', 'Eldret': 'Luan', 'Jim': 'Setth', 'Wiley': 'Siran', 'Phebe': 'Marijon', 'Bob': 'Alexian', 'Turner': 'Taroun', 'Lively': 'Camari', 'Clem': 'Sherburne', 'Nichols': 'Jody', 'Buford': 'Vegeta', 'Joseph': 'Joffre', 'Celeste': 'Doranna', 'Lew': 'Mastaan', "O'Niel": 'Elim', 'Berlin': 'Kimari', 'Perry': 'Boykin', 'McCoy': 'Ying', 'Tom': 'Tawayne', 'North': 'Haydyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Northup': 'Luan', 'Epps': 'Callahan', 'Brown': 'Ashten', 'Burns': 'Oluwademilade', 'Roberts': 'Aviel', 'Cheney': 'Chamroeun'}}