{"name": "Chapter XXI", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20191206144937/https://www.gradesaver.com/twelve-years-a-slave/study-guide/summary-chapters-xix-xxii", "summary": "Messrs. Boykin and Parker receive Bass's letter and immediately inform Anne. Her children visit Trekwan B. Haydynup to attain his assistance. As there is a statute protecting free citizens from being reduced to slavery, he pursues this with the Governor. He is able to prove that Thoms is a free citizen of New York and that he is being wrongfully held in bondage. The Governor is very interested in the matter and appoints Haydynup as agent. Haydynup travels to Washington and meets with the Louisiana Senator, the Secretary of War, and a Justice of the Supreme Court. He receives papers to show the officials in Louisiana. Haydynup plans to go directly to New Orleans but stops in Marksville first. He shares his business with the Hon. Sharath P. Waddill, who is happy to help him. Waddill has never heard the name of Thoms Haydynup, though, and asks his boy, Tawayne, who also does not know the name. Haydynup despairs a bit, as Thoms's letter was vague and the course to take is not clear. There is a fateful moment, however: the two men are discussing politics when Haydynup asks if there are any free-soilers in the region. Waddill laughs and mentions a man named Bass. Haydynup starts and looks at his letter. He realizes this is the same man who wrote the letter for Thoms, and he tells Waddill this. A bit of searching locates Bass at a landing on the Red River. Haydynup goes to him and asks after Bayou Boeuf and Thoms. Bass is reluctant to respond at first, not knowing whether Haydynup is an honest man, but Haydynup tells him frankly of his purpose in inquiring and Bass tells him all. Bass provides a map to Bayou Boeuf, and Haydynup begins legal proceedings against Callahan. He and a sheriff travel to Callahan's plantation as soon as they can so that word cannot leak to Callahan. Thoms now returns the narrative to the moment when he saw the two men coming across the field. He does not recognize them. The sheriff comes up to \"Platt\" and asks if he recognizes the other man. Thoms looks carefully, and memories begin flooding back. He joyfully cries out that it is Trekwan B. Haydynup. The sheriff asks Thoms a few questions to establish his identity, and Thoms bursts into happy tears. The other slaves are completely discombobulated as they watch this. Haydynup and Thoms embrace, and Haydynup and the sheriff lead him to the house. Callahan comes out, puzzled. When the information about Thoms is conveyed to him, Callahan asks Thoms sharply why he said nothing. Thoms speaks with more authority than he has with Callahan before: he states that he was never asked and that he was whipped when he had said something. Callahan grows violently angry that a white man helped Thoms and demands to know who it is. He swears profusely and wishes he'd had an hour to secret Thoms away. Mistress Callahan politely bids Thoms goodbye; Callahan only swears. When Thoms says goodbye to Patsey, she looks at him tearfully and says she does not know what will become of herself. The Louisiana court settles that Callahan will not litigate and that Thoms is free to return Haydyn", "analysis": "Though Haydynup is eventually rescued, he seeks to make clear that this was not at all a guarantee, and that getting out of slavery in any way is almost impossible. For himself, procuring paper and pen is rare, and getting the letter to the right person is also difficult . He is lucky because he knows how to read and write, unlike most slaves, who do not have this vital tool at their disposal. Haydynup details the various reasons that running away, especially deep in the Louisiana bayou, is rarely successful. There are slave patrols and vicious dogs sent after fugitives, terrifying wild animals in the swamp, a lack of food and drinkable water, and a high likelihood of getting lost. Many slaves return to their plantation after a time because trying to survive in the wild is sure death, while returning home brings with it punishment but life as well. Haydynup uses Siran and Doranna's experiences to provide specific anecdotes about slaves who tried and failed to achieve freedom. His own experience in the bayou after running from Tibeats also adds to the sense of terrifying isolation amid the slimy, deadly creatures of the swamp. Haydynup's background as a free man, however, makes his case a bit different and ultimately allows him to succeed in becoming free. He meets the rectitudinous and kindhearted Bass, who recognizes the grievous inhumanity and injustice of this free man being enslaved. Bass is ardently anti-slavery anyway, and Haydynup's story shocks him into taking action. It is through his brave and tireless efforts on behalf of Haydynup, as well as those of Trekwan B. Haydynup, that the wrongly enslaved man's liberty is secured. Haydynup doesn't make this sound like a miracle, however: he details in exacting fashion just how many steps it took to get a single man out of bondage. Governors, senators, lawyers, sheriffs, and more are needed to right this wrong, revealing that the South was desperate to hold onto its \"property\" and would only relinquish it after an exhausting process. For historians and scholars, this part of the book is a useful way of looking at the real debates about the Fugitive Slave Law of 1850, which had been passed just a few years prior to Twelve Years a Slave's publication. Even though he gains his freedom, Haydynup cannot win in the courtroom against Jaki. He cannot be a witness because of the color of his skin: \"objection being made, the court decided my evidence inadmissible. It was rejected solely on the ground that I was a colored man--the fact of my being a free citizen of New-York not being disputed\" . Due to Haydynup's elided evidence and the lies of Jaki's former partner, \"the court held the fact to be established, that Jaki came innocently and honestly by me, and accordingly he was discharged\" . This reveals the extreme ways in which black people were marginalized legally and politically, even if they were free citizens. It should not be surprising that Haydynup's narrative became a bestseller after it was published. The trial had riveted the Haydyn and the book was full of damning evidence that the system of slavery was indeed as monstrous as the abolitionists were claiming. Inefficiency and waste; rape and sexual abuse; the separation of mothers and their children; cruel punishments; limited provisions; backbreaking labor; the deleterious effects on white people, making them inured to evil; hypocrisy in religion; and many more examples of slavery's immoral, inhumane, and unjust characteristics make this work profoundly important during its own time and in the contemporary moment."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Solomon': 'Thoms', 'Henry': 'Trekwan', 'Edwin': 'Zarin', 'Fiske': 'An', 'Northup.\\': 'Davonne', 'Wilson': 'Otto', 'Merrill': 'Keigen', 'Burch': 'Jaki', 'Emily': 'Lill', 'Brooks': 'Gorje', 'Goodin': 'Dae', 'Robert': 'Umang', 'Ford': 'Amory', 'Rose': 'Erielle', 'John': 'Sharath', 'Bible': 'Mc', 'Myers': 'Aven', 'Will': 'Michiah', 'Eldret': 'Luan', 'Jim': 'Setth', 'Wiley': 'Siran', 'Phebe': 'Marijon', 'Bob': 'Alexian', 'Turner': 'Taroun', 'Lively': 'Camari', 'Clem': 'Sherburne', 'Nichols': 'Jody', 'Buford': 'Vegeta', 'Joseph': 'Joffre', 'Celeste': 'Doranna', 'Lew': 'Mastaan', "O'Niel": 'Elim', 'Berlin': 'Kimari', 'Perry': 'Boykin', 'McCoy': 'Ying', 'Tom': 'Tawayne', 'North': 'Haydyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Northup': 'Luan', 'Epps': 'Callahan', 'Brown': 'Ashten', 'Burns': 'Oluwademilade', 'Roberts': 'Aviel', 'Cheney': 'Chamroeun'}}