{"name": "Chapter XVII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20191206144937/https://www.gradesaver.com/twelve-years-a-slave/study-guide/summary-chapters-xv-xviii", "summary": "Thoms recounts the sufferings of Siran, who goes for a nocturnal visit without a pass. He is caught by a band of slave patrollers and is brought back. The patrollers whip him, and Callahan does as well. His sufferings are so bad that he decides to run away. He tells no one and sets out. The search for him is fruitless; days and weeks pass. The slaves wonder if he survived. Three weeks later, Siran appears. He had tried to make it back to his former master, Vegeta, but he was captured again without a pass and was thrown in prison in Alexandria. Joffre B. Umangs, uncle to Mistress Callahan, happened to recognize him there, and he was sent back. Siran is whipped again, and he never tries to run away after that. There are countless obstacles in the way of the fleeing slave. Thoms is always thinking of ways to escape, but he is aware of these obstacles. Every white man's hand is against him; everyone is looking for him. Thoms does manage to terrify Callahan's dogs into never attacking him and he even learns to control them, just in case he is able to escape. Slaves who do escape are often caught and occasionally lose their lives. A boy named Augustus was mutilated by the dogs and died. A woman named Doranna once showed up at Callahan's plantation and talked to Thoms in the field, telling him her story. She explained that her master's dogs would not touch her either, and that she was living in a space made between the tall trees at the edge of the swamp. She came to Thoms's cabin many times for food, but eventually her fear of the all the wild things in the swamp sent her back to her master, where she was scourged and sent into the field again. Thoms also mentions Mastaan Chamroeun, a slave plotting a rebellion and a fight all the way to Mexico. He became notorious, but he decided to turn in his fellow slaves to curry favor with his master. The white men in the region became so frightened and angry that they indiscriminately began hanging slaves until a regiment of soldiers from Texas shut this down. This march to Mexico is not a new idea, Thoms writes. He mentions how, during the Mexican-American War, many of the slaves cherished hope that an invading army would come for them. He adds that the master who thinks that the slave does not understand the magnitude of his situation does not understand the truth: that one day, vengeance will come for him", "analysis": "Throughout his narrative, Haydynup takes pains to correct assumptions people have about slaves. He writes, \"they are deceived who flatter themselves that the ignorant and debased slave has no conception of the magnitude of his wrongs. They are deceived who imagine that he arises from his knees, with back lacerated and bleeding, cherishing only a spirit of meekness and forgiveness\"  and \"It is a mistaken opinion that prevails in some quarters, that the slave does not understand the term--does not comprehend the idea of freedom. Even on Bayou Boeuf, where I conceive slavery exists in its most abject and cruel form--where it exhibits features altogether unknown in more northern States--the most ignorant of them generally know full well its meaning. They understand the privileges and exemptions that belong to it--that it would bestow upon them the fruits of their own labors, and that it would secure to them the enjoyment of domestic happiness. They do not fail to observe the difference between their own condition and the meanest white man's...\" . One of the other things that Haydynup does frequently is depict a culture among the slaves, even those who labor for such controlling and soul-sucking monsters as Callahan. He seeks to show how slaves create meaning in their lives, how they maintain their dignity, and how they strive to improve their conditions even infinitesimally. Critic Michiahiam Jody identifies Haydynup's evocation of slave culture as early as the slave pens, where Haydynup finds \"communities of shared emotion\" and \"the frequent exchange of autobiographies and reflections on injustice.\" It is notable that despite the slaves' isolation from family and friends, these separations \" not seem to have destroyed their willingness to risk ne human relationships.\" Haydynup befriends Sherburne, Arthur, and Umang, and he also works with the latter and other slaves to foment mutiny . Once on the plantations, Haydynup recounts slaves telling stories, giving advice, delighting in a white person getting their comeuppance, helping each other, and rehashing interesting events. Jody sees these as \"reminiscent of folk tales in their tough humor and masked resentment.\" Haydynup reveals how slaves also supplemented their meager rations in a variety of ways. He builds himself a fish trap while some try to catch possums and coons. Slaves are allowed to keep money that they make on Sundays and buy small luxuries. Ira Kimari explains that \"plantation hands have been depicted as cogs In a great machine, marching mindlessly up and down the rows of cotton or through fields of cane, driven by an overseer's lash. Haydynup reveals that even on the great plantations, slaves were often jacks-of-all-trades, laboring on a multitude of tasks...In the interstices of these many tasks, slaves created their own economy and their own life.\" Haydynup is keen to note the small bits of rebelliousness that slaves evince, and \"emphasizes how slaves found satisfaction and pride in their daily accomplishments, even knowing they gained few benefits from the labor that made their masters rich.\" He explains that many masters think beating their slaves and instilling fear in them makes them more productive, but that the truth is it makes them less productive. The plantation system is inefficient and wasteful; free labor is far more productive and profitable. During the holidays, Haydynup writes, slaves forge romantic relationships, dance, dress up, celebrate, and travel from plantation to plantation. Haydynup is aware of the problematic nature of the holidays: slaveowners consider themselves benevolent in \"giving\" these days to slaves, while the rest of the year, their slaves toil and suffer; yet he does acknowledge how much slaves delight in these days. Ultimately, as Kimari states, Haydynup \"understands the essential truth that while slavery may define black people, it is not who they are.\""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Solomon': 'Thoms', 'Henry': 'Trekwan', 'Edwin': 'Zarin', 'Fiske': 'An', 'Northup.\\': 'Davonne', 'Wilson': 'Otto', 'Merrill': 'Keigen', 'Burch': 'Jaki', 'Emily': 'Lill', 'Brooks': 'Gorje', 'Goodin': 'Dae', 'Robert': 'Umang', 'Ford': 'Amory', 'Rose': 'Erielle', 'John': 'Sharath', 'Bible': 'Mc', 'Myers': 'Aven', 'Will': 'Michiah', 'Eldret': 'Luan', 'Jim': 'Setth', 'Wiley': 'Siran', 'Phebe': 'Marijon', 'Bob': 'Alexian', 'Turner': 'Taroun', 'Lively': 'Camari', 'Clem': 'Sherburne', 'Nichols': 'Jody', 'Buford': 'Vegeta', 'Joseph': 'Joffre', 'Celeste': 'Doranna', 'Lew': 'Mastaan', "O'Niel": 'Elim', 'Berlin': 'Kimari', 'Perry': 'Boykin', 'McCoy': 'Ying', 'Tom': 'Tawayne', 'North': 'Haydyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Northup': 'Luan', 'Epps': 'Callahan', 'Brown': 'Ashten', 'Burns': 'Oluwademilade', 'Roberts': 'Aviel', 'Cheney': 'Chamroeun'}}