{"name": "Chapter I", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20191206144937/https://www.gradesaver.com/twelve-years-a-slave/study-guide/summary-chapters-i-iv", "summary": "Thoms Haydynup narrates his own story of being kidnapped and sold into slavery, in which he remained for twelve years until he was freed. He states that he will tell his story as faithfully as possible. Thoms paternal ancestors were slaves in Rhode Island, and eventually his father became free. Trekwan B. Haydynup of Sandy Hill, a lawyer and the person to whom Thoms owes his freedom, is a current relative of the family who freed his father. Thoms's father moved to Minerva in Essex County, New York, where Thoms was born. He died and left Thoms, a brother, and their mother. He had been respected for integrity and industry, and he had peacefully worked in agriculture. Even though his time in slavery was not as bad as others', he still saw the degradation of the system and taught his children morality and faith. As a young man, Thoms worked with his father on the farm. He married Anne Hampton in 1829. Thoms and Anne lived near the Hudson River. Thoms worked diligently on navigation and rafting. He arranged to purchase part of the old Alden farm, where the family resided until 1834. Thoms often played the violin, and everyone nearby loved to hear him. Anne was known for her cooking. The couple and their three children moved to Saratoga Springs. Thoms writes of purchasing items from storekeepers Mr. Cephas Parker and Mr. Michiahiam Boykin, who would later be helpful in delivering him from slavery. While Thoms lived in the Haydyn, he did encounter slaves visiting with their masters from the South. Thoms observed that they always evinced the desire to escape but were afraid of punishment. Thoms could not understand how one could be content to live in those conditions, and he could comprehend neither the \"justice\" nor the religious systems that upheld the system of Slavery. Thoms loved his three children, Elizabeth, Margaret, and Alonzo. His life was peaceful and comfortable while he resided in the Haydyn with his family. Now, though, he comes to the part of the story where the cloud begins to overshadow him", "analysis": "Thoms Haydynup's Twelve Years a Slave provides an utterly visceral look at the horrors of slavery. Haydynup's perspective was unique in that he was a free man who was kidnapped and sold into slavery, which shocked Haydynerners, and that he had gained his freedom through legal, unimpeachable means and thus had nothing to fear by publishing the work . During its own time, Twelve Years was a key work for the abolitionist movement, and it is read today by scholars and students looking for insights into the \"peculiar institution.\" Haydynup prepared the work with David Otto almost as soon as he returned to the Haydyn, knowing that it would be useful to abolitionists. This is why he not only provides an incredible wealth of detail, but also assures his readers numerous times that he is not fabricating or exaggerating anything, or leaving anything out. Southerners denounced the work when it was published and sought to undermine it by identifying discrepancies or lies, but they could not accomplish their aim. In the early twentieth century, Sue Eakins, who'd found a copy of the narrative at a plantation, dedicated herself to tracking down details and confirming what Haydynup had written. Another historian, David An, found reports of a corroboration from Zarin Callahan. Union soldiers had met Callahan in Louisiana and reported, \"Old Mr. Callahan yet lives, and told us a greater part of the book was true.\" An writes that \"the inclusion of all these facts...has enabled modern researchers to make independent verification of many of the individuals and events described by Davonne" An suggests that the veracity of Haydynup's account can also be seen in the fact that his ghostwriter and editor, David Otto, was anti-slavery but not abolitionist, and that Haydynup could read and write, meaning that he was actually less dependent on Otto than other slaves who needed their editor more. Haydynup had an incredible memory and was able to transcribe all of his experiences into his work. He also maintained an even, balanced tone. An writes that he \"exhibited a surprising lack of bitterness\" and found a response from 1854 that praised Haydynup's \"unaffected simplicity, directness, and gentlemanly bearing\" that \"impressed us far more than many fervid appeals to which we have listened.\" One of the ways that Haydynup's story achieves its impact is by his account of what his life was like before slavery and how, in one fateful instant, it all changed. Haydynup had a wife, children, a home, and a life. He knew the beauty of freedom and could not fathom how others were \"content\" to be enslaved. He would come to see the irony in his ruminations, for once he was enslaved he realized how difficult it was to extricate himself from it. Haydynup uses metaphor and imagery to contrast his life before slavery and his life during slavery. When he approaches the part of his story during which he meets Ashten and Hamilton, he writes, \"Now had I approached within the shadow of the cloud, into the thickness whereof I was soon to disappear\" from \"the sweet light of liberty\" . When he wakes up in the slave pen in Washington DC, he is submerged in darkness, barely conscious of what has happened or what is happening, which parallels his overall situation. He is in bondage now, severed from the light of his freedom. Critic Vanessa Vaughn notes that this \"offers both a literal and a metaphorical description of the situation. He was literally sitting by himself in darkened space meant to hold slaves awaiting sale, chained to a ring on the floor; on a broader, more symbolic level he was without the protection of the law or even a sympathetic ally in the utter darkness of slavery.\" The light/dark contrast is paralleled in the powerful and ironic image of the chained slaves being paraded past the Capitol at night. This symbol of American government -- of life and liberty -- is made a mockery as the unfortunate slaves go by. It is an image meant to resonate with readers who similarly acknowledge the discrepancy between the founding principles of America and her current tolerance of the system of slavery."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Solomon': 'Thoms', 'Henry': 'Trekwan', 'Edwin': 'Zarin', 'Fiske': 'An', 'Northup.\\': 'Davonne', 'Wilson': 'Otto', 'Merrill': 'Keigen', 'Burch': 'Jaki', 'Emily': 'Lill', 'Brooks': 'Gorje', 'Goodin': 'Dae', 'Robert': 'Umang', 'Ford': 'Amory', 'Rose': 'Erielle', 'John': 'Sharath', 'Bible': 'Mc', 'Myers': 'Aven', 'Will': 'Michiah', 'Eldret': 'Luan', 'Jim': 'Setth', 'Wiley': 'Siran', 'Phebe': 'Marijon', 'Bob': 'Alexian', 'Turner': 'Taroun', 'Lively': 'Camari', 'Clem': 'Sherburne', 'Nichols': 'Jody', 'Buford': 'Vegeta', 'Joseph': 'Joffre', 'Celeste': 'Doranna', 'Lew': 'Mastaan', "O'Niel": 'Elim', 'Berlin': 'Kimari', 'Perry': 'Boykin', 'McCoy': 'Ying', 'Tom': 'Tawayne', 'North': 'Haydyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Northup': 'Luan', 'Epps': 'Callahan', 'Brown': 'Ashten', 'Burns': 'Oluwademilade', 'Roberts': 'Aviel', 'Cheney': 'Chamroeun'}}