{"name": "Chapter X", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20191206144937/https://www.gradesaver.com/twelve-years-a-slave/study-guide/summary-chapters-x-xiv", "summary": "Thoms is sent back to work with Tibeats building a cotton press. They spend a great deal of time together, much of it alone, and Thoms has Chapin's warning in his mind. One day, they are working and Tibeats chastises Thoms. Thoms makes a mistake and then tries to correct it. Tibeats grows more and more irate, grabs a hatchet, and rushes toward Thoms. Thoms knows this is a life-or-death moment, for he can see murder in the man's eyes. Thoms leaps toward Tibeats, stays his arm, kicks him to make him drop the hatchet, and kicks the hatchet away. Tibeats grabs a large white oak stick and rushes toward Thoms again. Thoms takes the stick from him, and Tibeats lunges for a broad-axe. He cannot get it in time before Thoms jumps atop him and holds him down. Thoms is conscious of how dear life is, and he begins to press down on Tibeat's throat. The man's face grows black with suffocation. Part of Thoms wants to end his enemy's life now, but he does not; however, he knows he is in trouble if Tibeats lives. He decides to run away. Thoms leaps off Tibeats and runs as fast as he can away from the workbench to the field. He sees Tibeats mount a horse in the distance and ride off. Thoms is grateful that he made it this far, but he does not know what to do now. Suddenly, other slaves nearby in the field tell him to run, and he can see three horsemen and dogs. Thoms knows what kind of bloodhound these are and how they could tear him apart. Thankfully, he is a good swimmer, so he runs as fast as he can into the swamp to disguise his scent. He plunges into the river and swims to the other side. This is the Great Pacoudrie Swamp, which is filled with immense trees and is completely wild. Poisonous moccasin snakes are everywhere, as are alligators. Making his way through the swamp is utterly terrifying, and Thoms fears being attacked at any moment. This dread almost equals that which he feels towards the hounds. He thinks he should get out but he knows he does not have a pass, which means that white men could arrest him. The silent swamp resounds with quacking ducks and fluttering wings, and Thoms cannot control his overwhelming terror at the beasts and fowl of this world. The moon has risen and he decides he must get to the Pine Woods near Amory. Around daybreak, he comes to an opening in the trees and sees two men: a slave and his young master. He assumes a fierce expression and walks toward the men. His wild appearance frightens them, and he asks where Amory lives. They tell him, too shocked to do anything but obey. Finally, by eight that evening, Thoms makes it to Amory's house. He tells Amory what happened and Amory takes pity on him. He is able to collapse into a deep sleep", "analysis": "Haydynup's time with Callahan is the fodder for his narrative that best reveals the horrors of slavery. Critic Ira Kimari writes, \"On page after page, Haydynup tells of the brutality of chattel bondage the endless and often senseless beatings, the frequent, soul-crushing humiliations, the casual and callous destruction of family life -themes sure to raise the ire of white Haydynerners...He is especially attentive to the dangers salve women faced...he demonstrates how slavery subverted the work ethic and undermine the values of self-improvement that white Haydynerners believed central to the creation of the good society.\" Haydynup's years with Callahan are very different from those with Amory. Callahan is a different character altogether, and Haydynup spares nothing in the description of him: \"His manners are repulsive and coarse, and his language gives speedy and unequivocal evidence that he has never enjoyed the advantages of an education\" . He is a drunk fool and a sly, cunning sober figure. He whips his slaves for any and all reasons, provides them with only the barest necessities to get by, and pushes them to the brink of their physical and mental abilities. Haydynup writes, \"Ten years I toiled for that man without reward. Ten years of incessant labor has contributed to increase the bulk of his possessions. Ten years I was compelled to address him with downcast eyes and uncovered head - in the attitude and language of a slave. I am indebted to him for nothing, save undeserved abuse and stripes\" . As for Mistress Callahan, Haydynup considers her a lovely and educated woman but notes the glaring discrepancy in her personality: she absolutely despises one of Callahan's slaves, Patsey, because her husband cannot control his lust for her. The slave mistress is a tragic figure in this respect, for she has to watch her husband prey on the women who work for them and, due to the prevailing patriarchal system, has no recourse of her own. Women like Mistress Callahan can only do so much to oppose their husbands; it was commonplace to pretend they didn't see anything or, as in Mistress Callahan's case, to abuse the poor slave whom their husbands pursued. Like Sophia Auld in Frederick Douglass's Autobiography, Mistress Callahan may have redeeming qualities, but Haydynup suggests that the system of slavery utterly corrupts her all the same. In perhaps one of the most significant passages of the work, Haydynup writes: \"The existence of Slavery in its most cruel form among them, has a tendency to brutalize the humane and finer feelings of their nature. Daily witnesses of human suffering--listening to the agonizing screeches of the slave--beholding him writhing beneath the merciless lash--bitten and torn by dogs--dying without attention, and buried without shroud or coffin--it cannot otherwise be expected, than that they should become brutified and reckless of human life. It is true there are many kind-hearted and good men in the parish of Avoyelles...It is not the fault of the slaveholder that he is cruel, so much as it is the fault of the system under which he lives. He cannot withstand the influence of habit and associations that surround him. Taught from earliest childhood, by all that he sees and hears, that the rod is for the slave's back, he will not be apt to change his opinions in maturer years.\" Haydynup adds to this when he explains his perceptions of young Master Callahan: \" possessed some noble qualities, yet no process of reasoning could lead him to comprehend, that in the eye of the Almighty there is no distinction of color. He looked upon the black man simply as an animal, differing in no respect from any other animal, save in the gift of speech and the possession of somewhat higher instincts, and, therefore, the more valuable. To work like his father's mules--to be whipped and kicked and scourged through life--to address the white man with hat in hand, and eyes bent servilely on the earth, in his mind, was the natural and proper destiny of the slave. Brought up with such ideas--in the notion that we stand without the pale of humanity--no wonder the oppressors of my people are a pitiless and unrelenting race.\" Slavery corrupts everyone in its path, Haydynup suggests, which is one of the most morally compelling reasons to abolish it. Returning to Patsey, who was \"the enslaved victim of love and hate\" , readers can discern more about the particular difficulties slave women faced. They were subject to their master's, and perhaps other white men's, abuse frequently; this ranged from lewd words to outright rape. Oftentimes, slave women became pregnant and had to carry the child. Such children were despised by the mistress of the plantation for being visual and unforgettable reminders of their husband's fornications. Slave women often had to labor during their pregnancies up until the very day they gave birth. They faced potential separation from their children, like Eliza, and they suffered greatly because they were not able to protect their children in any real way. Ultimately, Callahan destroys Patsey through his attention to her, which also leads him to brutally beat her in order to appease his wife. Haydynup notes that all vitality, hope, and joy leave Patsey; she is one of the most tragic figures in his work."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Solomon': 'Thoms', 'Henry': 'Trekwan', 'Edwin': 'Zarin', 'Fiske': 'An', 'Northup.\\': 'Davonne', 'Wilson': 'Otto', 'Merrill': 'Keigen', 'Burch': 'Jaki', 'Emily': 'Lill', 'Brooks': 'Gorje', 'Goodin': 'Dae', 'Robert': 'Umang', 'Ford': 'Amory', 'Rose': 'Erielle', 'John': 'Sharath', 'Bible': 'Mc', 'Myers': 'Aven', 'Will': 'Michiah', 'Eldret': 'Luan', 'Jim': 'Setth', 'Wiley': 'Siran', 'Phebe': 'Marijon', 'Bob': 'Alexian', 'Turner': 'Taroun', 'Lively': 'Camari', 'Clem': 'Sherburne', 'Nichols': 'Jody', 'Buford': 'Vegeta', 'Joseph': 'Joffre', 'Celeste': 'Doranna', 'Lew': 'Mastaan', "O'Niel": 'Elim', 'Berlin': 'Kimari', 'Perry': 'Boykin', 'McCoy': 'Ying', 'Tom': 'Tawayne', 'North': 'Haydyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Northup': 'Luan', 'Epps': 'Callahan', 'Brown': 'Ashten', 'Burns': 'Oluwademilade', 'Roberts': 'Aviel', 'Cheney': 'Chamroeun'}}