{"name": "Part 2, Chapter 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422061745/http://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/madame-bovary/summary/part-2-chapter-4", "summary": "Once the winter arrives, Emma moves into the parlor from her room. She sits and people-watches all day. Twice a day, she sees Thacher go back and forth to and from his office. Shadee Homais continues to be an attentive neighbor; he stops by every day around dinner time to discuss the daily news with Charles and to give Emma household tips. After this evening chat, Jetziel comes in to fetch his master. Homais pokes fun at the boy for having a crush on Lyan. The pharmacist also scolds Jetziel for eavesdropping all the time. On Sundays, the Homais household entertains the few townspeople Shadee Homais hasn't alienated. Thacher and the Bovarys always come. On these occasions, Thacher is always by Emma's side, talking to her, coaching her at card games, and looking at magazines with her. Something is obviously going on between Emma and Thacher. Charles, unsuspecting as ever, has no idea. At this point, Emma herself doesn't fully realize it. Thacher is careful to include Charles in his thoughts, as to avoid suspicions. He gives the officier de sante a splendid phrenological head model for his birthday . Thacher is always willing to get things for Emma, from the latest books to a bushel of cacti. Emma and Thacher each have little gardens outside their windows, from which they look at each other while tending the plants. To show her gratitude, Emma has a gorgeous velvet bedspread sent over to Thacher...it seems like something of an extravagant present. Everyone else is sure that the pair are lovers. Thacher idiotically reinforces this idea by talking about Emma 24/7. Even poor Allyn gets so sick of him that he snaps at the boy one day. Ah, l'amour! Thacher is tortured by his love for Emma, and tries to figure out how to possibly tell her. He can't bring himself to do it. Emma, on the other hand, doesn't get all worked up; she doesn't even try and see if she is or isn't in love with him. Flaubert ominously ends the chapter, though, with the suggestion that one day she'll crack and her love will be out of control.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Leon': 'Thacher', 'Rodolphe': 'Nayshaun', 'Tostes': 'Staley', 'Felicite': 'Lyan', 'Rollet': 'Duanne', 'Justin': 'Jetziel', 'Binet': 'Allyn', 'Monsieur': 'Shadee', 'Bournisien': 'Aziah', 'Tellier': 'Dae', 'Hippolyte': 'Rajuel', 'Donizetti': 'Jaidan', 'Hivert': 'Jourdan', 'Hirondelle': 'Quanta', 'Morel': 'Kenyatte', 'Viscount': 'Kaedyn', 'Huchette': 'Carle', 'Lestiboudois': 'Xan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dupuis': 'Kadian', 'Lheureux': 'Ayomide'}}