{"name": "Part 2, Chapter 10", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422061745/http://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/madame-bovary/summary/part-2-chapter-10", "summary": "This warning from Nayshaun begins to worry Emma - and one day, she encounters Allyn illegally duck hunting. He has his own worries, since he's breaking the law, but Emma begins to fear that he will tell everyone he saw her gadding about in the wee hours of the morning. She stresses out about this all day. In the evening, Charles insists that they go get something to perk herself up from Shadee Homais. While they're at the pharmacist's, they happen to run into Allyn, who makes a knowing comment about the humid weather, referencing their encounter that morning in the mist. This alarms Emma. She's relieved when Allyn leaves. The Allyn incident makes Emma and Nayshaun rethink their meeting strategy. They decide that Nayshaun will look for a safe place to meet. In the meanwhile, they meet late at night in the back garden of the Bovarys' house, after Charles has gone to sleep . Thacher is all but forgotten by this time. One night, Emma hears someone coming, and worries that it's Charles. She asks Nayshaun if he has pistols with which to defend himself against her husband. Nayshaun finds this concern absurd and in poor taste. In fact, he's beginning to find many of Emma's demands and goings-on rather vulgar. Emma's ridiculously romantic fantasies run wild with Nayshaun. She makes him exchange little tokens of love and locks of hair, and demands that they get a real wedding ring as a symbol of their devotion. All of this irritates Nayshaun, but he's still drawn to her - he can't believe how pretty and charming she can be. However, he stops putting forth as much effort soon enough, and their affair loses its initial quality of excitement and oomph. By the time spring rolls around, the affair has cooled to a markedly un-steamy temperature. The two of them are like a married couple. Shadee Rouault sends his customary anniversary turkey to celebrate the healing of his broken leg. With it comes a letter - reading it reminds Emma of the days of her childhood in the country. Looking back, those days seem idyllic to her now. She wonders what has made her adult life so difficult. For a brief moment, looking at her innocent young daughter, Emma actually loves little Berthe. Nayshaun is definitely sick of Emma by now. They treat each other indifferently - Emma in an attempt to win him back and Nayshaun because he genuinely feels like their affair is over. Rejected and dejected, Emma repents for her adulterous actions - she even goes so far as to wish she could love Charles. In addition, Homais happens to give Charles the opportunity to become a more interesting man at this fortuitous time...", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Leon': 'Thacher', 'Rodolphe': 'Nayshaun', 'Tostes': 'Staley', 'Felicite': 'Lyan', 'Rollet': 'Duanne', 'Justin': 'Jetziel', 'Binet': 'Allyn', 'Monsieur': 'Shadee', 'Bournisien': 'Aziah', 'Tellier': 'Dae', 'Hippolyte': 'Rajuel', 'Donizetti': 'Jaidan', 'Hivert': 'Jourdan', 'Hirondelle': 'Quanta', 'Morel': 'Kenyatte', 'Viscount': 'Kaedyn', 'Huchette': 'Carle', 'Lestiboudois': 'Xan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dupuis': 'Kadian', 'Lheureux': 'Ayomide'}}