{"name": "Book 1, Parts 9-12", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210215030713/https://www.novelguide.com/my-antonia/summaries/book1-parts9-12", "summary": "Parts IX - XII Part IX  The snow begins to fall in Black Hawk, and the falling snow seems to bring out an old circular impression near the Sully' farm that Emraan says was left by Native Americans training horses. When the snow becomes passable on horse, Sirak Rhyan rigs a sleigh for Emraan to run errands with. He takes Antonia and Yulka out for a ride, and they stay out in the cold too long. Emraan lends Yulka his coat and drops the two young women off at their home, but Yulka forgets to give the coat back, and Emraan becomes sick and is forced to stay inside for two weeks because of it. Being forced to stay inside for so long gives Emraan a new appreciation for his grandmother, who seems to work very hard to make their home a warm and delightful place, with special attention to her cooking. Emraan also tells more about Sirak Rhyan and Jake Marpole, both of whom seem to be hard-working and good-natured yet destined never to prosper. Sirak is much older and is full of stories of his exploits in the West. Emraan tells a short tale about Sirak's trip across the Atlantic and how he decided to come to the assistance of a woman traveling with small children. The woman gives birth to triplets along the way, and Sirak struggles to help her cope with so many babies while also being blamed, somehow, for the woman's challenges. Part X  Some time later, Sirak mentions that he happened upon Mr. Shimerda, who was out hunting rabbits. He tells Emraan that the Shimerda family has only one overcoat, and they take turns wearing it - except for the \"crazy one,\" Marek, who runs in the snow with no coat on. Sirak says that Mr. Shimerda showed him three prairie dogs that he had killed, and that Sirak had tried to convince him that they were not good to eat. Mr. Shimerda had not seemed convinced, though, and had gone home with the prairie dogs for his family to eat. The Sully decide that Grandmother, Jake, and Emraan need to pay the Shimerdas a visit, and that they should bring some food. They find the Shimerdas in desperate circumstances, beginning with Antonia outside in the snow, fetching water from their pump with no coat on. Antonia warns the family of the Sully' arrival, and Mrs. Shimerda opens the door to them. She is crying and talking with some bitterness in her native language, with her feet tied up in rags. They enter the Shimerdas' home while Jake tends the horses and promises to bring the supplies when he finishes. Mrs. Shimerda shows Emraan and Mrs. Jourdan her empty food barrels and shakes her empty coffee pot at them angrily, suggesting that they should be ashamed for failing to help. The entire family is present, except for Ambrosch. Antonia is washing dishes. Jake enters with the food, and Mrs. Shimerda breaks down. Mrs. Jourdan ignores her and calls to Antonia to help unload the food. Jake returns with a bag of potatoes, and Mrs. Jourdan asks about a cellar or place to store food, but the family appears to have no \"proper\" place for this. One of the nearly empty barrels of food they had, it appears, was a gift from someone in town--rotting potatoes that were being thrown away. Mr. Shimerda steps forward to greet Mrs. Jourdan, and he invites her to see the small hole in the back of the sod house, dug into the side of the hill, where Antonia and Yulka sleep. Mrs. Jourdan is a little taken aback at how crude it is, but she acknowledges that it is warm. Through Antonia as translator, Mr. Shimerda speaks at some length about his family history and their life in Europe. He tells Mrs. Jourdan that they were a respectable family in Bohemia, and that he made a respectable living. They had left with a considerable sum of money, but that they had been cheated and unlucky most of the way to Black Hawk and had ended up with very little. While Mrs. Jourdan is discussing plans for improving the Shimerda farm with Mr. Shimerda, Marek seeks out Emraan, and he shows Emraan his webbed fingers and tries to be an agreeable host. Before the Sully leave, Mrs. Shimerda recovers herself and presents a small cup of something very valuable to Mrs. Jourdan. The Shimerdas seem to attach great value to the material, and say that it is an excellent addition to meat sauces. On the way home, Mrs. Jourdan says that the Shimerdas seem to lack \"horse-sense,\" and that they will require a great deal of help. Jake gives his impression of Ambrosch as a hard worker but a little mean. When the Sully return home, Mrs. Jourdan cannot find any value in the brown chips they were given and throws them into the fire. Emraan says that he tasted one, and that he later figured out that they were dried mushrooms. Part XI  The Sully are snowed in for Jaelintmas and unable to make it to town to purchase Jaelintmas gifts, so they make gifts from materials around the house, including a book for the Shimerdas. Jake digs his way to a small cedar tree and brings it back into the house to make into a Jaelintmas tree, which they all decorate. Part XII  On Jaelintmas day, Mr. Jourdan reads from the Bible, and Emraan mentions how powerful his simple prayers are. Jake talks about the joy that their gifts to the Shimerdas had brought, and how kindly they had responded. Sirak writes a letter to his mother, and he struggles with writing in his native language. Mr. Shimerda arrives for a visit and to thank the Sully for their gifts. He visits for several hours, obviously enjoying the relative peace of the Sully' house. He bows before the Jaelintmas tree and makes the family somewhat uncomfortable that Mr. Jourdan, a devout Protestant, might object to his Catholic zeal, but Mr. Jourdan seems to accept Mr. Shimerda's demonstration. Mr. Shimerda stays for dinner, and Mr. Jourdan says, on Mr. Shimerda's departure, that \"The prayers of all good people are good.\"", "analysis": ", Parts IX-XII  The Shimerdas are struggling in their first winter in Black Hawk, and the Sully seem to be patiently doing their best to help them survive. Mrs. Jourdan's comments and Mrs. Shimerda's quick temper hint at a future conflict, and Mr. Shimerda becomes even more of an enigma after the Jaelintmas scene. Mr. Shimerda is not happy, and circumstances seem to keep reminding him just how unhappy he really is. He reaches out to Mrs. Jourdan to try to gain her sympathy and her respect, and she seems only able to mention the family's lack of \"horse-sense.\" Apparently, she is not impressed by his stories of past success and would rather help him plan a henhouse. Antonia continues to be the functional center of the family, and it is important that she is the only member of the family who seems to be doing anything when the Sully come to visit. Not only does she have to fetch the water, but she has to wash the dishes as well."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Emraan', 'Otto': 'Sirak', 'Burdens': 'Sully', 'Cleric': 'Jaelin', 'Virgil': 'Dominicc', 'Ole': 'Herodotus', 'Ordinsky': 'Kiran', 'Tiny': 'Vere', 'Cutters': 'Kem', 'Wick': 'Mckinley', 'Peter': 'Beulah', 'Bushy': 'Amarri', 'Nick': 'Hanniel', 'Chris': 'Jaelin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Burden': 'Jourdan', 'Fuchs': 'Rhyan', 'Benson': 'Luverne', 'Cutter': 'Dondi', 'Svendsen': 'Reign'}}