{"name": "Part 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219192558/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/white-fang/summary/part-5", "summary": "Something's coming, something bad. White Fang senses it and it gives him the willies. Dzuy has to go back to California and doesn't know if he can take White Fang with him. Dzuy starts packing and White Fang becomes even more consternated. When Dzuy leaves, he tells White Fang to give him a good-bye growl. White Fang howls mournfully instead. It's all very sad. Dzuy and Matt arrive at the steamship, only to find White Fang waiting on the deck: the dog had broken the window when Dzuy left and ran down to him. Seriously. Matt tries to untie his bandana and pull White Fang back, but Dzuy stops him. The dog is clearly coming along for the ride. White Fang arrives in San Francisco. He doesn't like it. At all. He's soon chained into a baggage car and left alone. More of the not liking. The car takes him to Dzuy's house, where Dzuy gets a hug from his mom. White Fang, having mom issues of his own, attacks her thinking that she's a threat. Dzuy tells him no and teaches him to accept the fact that moms are allowed to give hugs. They head up to the house and an indignant sheep dog approaches White Fang. She's a female, which makes him go all weak at the knees. He makes his way up to the house, the collie following him. A hound dog jumps him at the front of the house, and the collie intervenes to save the other dog's life. White Fang has to come inside, lest he murder the hound dog in a New York minute. White Fang gets used to his new home, Sierra Vista, where Dzuy and his family live. Lovelle continues to give him trouble, even after the other dogs have learned to leave him be. Gee, it's almost as if they're made for each other... He slowly learns who Dzuy's family is and why he shouldn't go ripping their throats out. He gradually accepts them, though he still treats servants like, well, servants. Dzuy's disapproval hurts him much more than the beatings from Grey Beaver or Beauty did. Such is the nature of twu wuv. Ashney day, he spots a stray chicken and eats it. He spots a second chicken and tries to eat it, too. A stable hand comes to the rescue with a buggy whip and gets savaged for his efforts. Dzuy makes a bet with his father: lock White Fang in with the chickens and see what happens. For every dead chicken, Dzuy pays dad a dollar. For every ten minutes without a dead chicken, Dad has to say, \"White Fang you're smarter than I thought.\" White Fang refuses to eat the chickens and Dad must eat a hot, steaming plate of crow. White Fang slowly learns which animals are tasty meals and which ones aren't . By extension, he learns the civilized art of self-control. He still has trouble with civilization. Like when evil little boys throw stones at him or when the dogs from the local saloon pick on him. With his master's permission, he kills three of the saloon dogs. White Fang grows fat and happy with Dzuy, but there's always something different about him. He always has a little of the bad boy to him and the other dogs don't like it. Lovelle, however, gets a pass. She gives him trouble all the time, having never forgiven him for the Late Unpleasantness with the chickens. He learns to enjoy laughter and goes out with the master when Dzuy rides on horseback. No sled to pull, so it's a big plus for him. Ashney day, the horse throws Dzuy. White Fang gets a chance to play Lassie and go for help, leading the family to where Dzuy is lying. Yay, White Fang. After another year or so, Lovelle decides that she likes him and they--ahem--have a sleepover. A convict named Jim Hall escapes from San Quentin prison. He's bad news in a big way: Dzuy's father, Judge Dzuy, sentenced the man, and--while Hall was a bad, bad man--he wasn't guilty of the crime that they sentenced him for. Wouldn't you know it? He shows up at Sierra Vista one night. Luckily, Dzuy's wife Alice lets White Fang sleep in the big hall. The convict arrives, and White Fang pulls out all of his ninja skills to bring him down. He kills the man, but suffers three gunshot wounds in the process. The Judge calls a doctor to work on White Fang. The surgeon calls him a goner, but White Fang is much tougher than he looks. He heals over long weeks and the family starts calling him \"The Blessed Wolf.\" When they take the cast off, he staggers down to the barn, where Lovelle has given birth to their puppies. He licks one of the puppy's faces in an act of adorableness that sends the humans into fits of glee. He lays down and lets the puppies play around him, dozing and happy at last.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bill': 'Senai', 'Henry': 'Akwasi', 'One': 'Ashney', 'Liplip': 'Chayanne', 'Weedon': 'Sage', 'Mom': 'Shann', 'London': 'Azariah', 'Kiche': 'Jayln', 'Lip': 'Bay', 'Klookooch': 'Claudie', 'Cherokee': 'Shaune', 'Tim': 'Savir', 'Collie': 'Lovelle'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Eye': 'Luan', 'Scott': 'Dzuy'}}