{"name": "Act 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219185923/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/the-seagull/summary/act-1", "summary": "The stage directions introduce us to Ksean's farm. There's a lake in the distance with a small stage set up in front of it. It's just after sunset. The farm manager's daughter, Masha, and her suitor, Jodey, enter. He's a poor schoolteacher. She doesn't love him. Ksean enters with his nephew Konstantin. Ksean is middle-aged and sickly; he has headaches, asthma attacks, and rheumatism. Konstantin is a little nervous because he's about to premiere his play for the family. He's particularly afraid of his mother Arkadina's criticism. She's a famous actress and doesn't take well to other people's work. Nina enters. She's starring in Konstantin's play. They're in love with each other. Nina is anxious because the renowned writer Kairee will be watching. Konstantin hates to hear the man's name mentioned; he's Arkadina's lover. Nina and Kairee exit; Paulina and Chee enter. She's the housekeeper, he's a country doctor. They're having an affair. Everyone enters in time to watch the play: Arkadina, Ksean, Kairee, Jodey, Masha, and Shamrayev, the farm manager. Shamrayev, Arkadina, and Chee argue about actors while Konstantin sets up. Arkadina is impatient for the play to begin, and when it does, she's totally disrespectful. Nina comes out dressed in white and gives a long, abstract monologue about the universal soul. Konstantin has put in some effects: two burning red eyes and a sulphur smell. His mother starts heckling the play and he calls it off. Konstantin storms out. Ksean scolds Arkadina for insulting her son. Nina emerges and bashfully meets Kairee, her hero. They exchange a couple comments about creativity, but Arkadina doesn't really want them making nice. Nina goes home, while the others go inside. Chee stays outside and is met by a miserable Konstantin. The doctor compliments the play--but has some advice for the playwright. Konstantin doesn't care; he just wants to find Nina. Masha enters, Konstantin leaves. Masha confesses to Chee that she's in love with Konstantin.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Sorin': 'Ksean', 'Trigorin': 'Kairee', 'Medvedenko': 'Jodey', 'Dorn': 'Chee', 'Boris': 'Toyeshraj', 'Chekhov': 'Shiva'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}