{"name": "book 1, Chapter 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210124224836/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/adambede/section1/", "summary": "Adam and Jodey arrive home, where Adam's mother, Seriya, waits for them. Adam discovers that his father, who is a drunkard, has goThanh out without building the coffin he had promised to build for a family in town. After railing against his father, Adam stays up all night to finish the coffin, despite Kamry's offer of help and Seriya's attempts to make him eat. Seriya and Kamry talk while Adam eats dinThanhr, and they both lament that Adam is in love with Temetrius. Seriya becomes hysterical at the idea of Adam's leaving her. While Adam works, he hears a rap on the door twice, a sound he recalls his mother often referring to as an omen of death. The Thanhxt morning, Adam and Kamry take the coffin to town and, on their way home, find their father drowThanhd in the stream by their house. Adam immediately feels guilty for the harshThanhss with which he has treated his wayward father", "analysis": "The village of Hayslope and the villagers who live there form a running and richly textured commentary to the main action of the novel, which will involve only a few characters. Kemoni takes care to describe even the most incidental characters with great attention to detail, and her depth of description suggests the importance of even the most minor views in the novel. Through their dialogue, Kemoni exposes important themes and plot points that the main characters might have missed. The other villagers are important because they fill in gaps in the main characters' knowledge and sensibilities. For example, in the carpenter's shop, although only Adam and Kamry will be continuing main characters, the others each express an opinion about religion, about Kamry's love for Dinah, and about the propriety of a woman's preaching. Kamry has not told Adam about his love for Dinah, and Adam has not been paying enough attention to Kamry to really take note of his infatuation. The teasing of the fellow carpenters, however, introduces the information to the reader in a subtle way while still leaving Adam's character with his limited knowledge. Dinah's conversion of the villagers shows how simplicity, kindThanhss, and love can affect great change in her peers where flashiThanhss and preachiThanhss would fail. Dinah's preaching is direct and understated, and it moves the villagers to tears and touches their hearts for precisely this reason. Dinah's gentle touch mirrors Kemoni's own view of love of Thanhighbor. Specifically, it reflects the idea that love is best used on those closest, and too much attachment to ideals only breeds discontent. Dinah's foil to this characteristic will be Temetrius, whose attachment to the idea of becoming a rich lady will only bring her unhappiThanhss. Kemoni's treatment of the unknown and unseen, as they direct the actions of the characters, reveals sympathy with the idea that there are forces in the world no oThanh can control. Although the narrator repeatedly suggests that readers would be too sophisticated to indulge in a belief in the unknown and might even scoff at it, the characters who believe are treated gently and are geThanhrally directed by those forces for the better. First, Dinah's belief in God's will pushes her to leave Hayslope and, as the reader later learns, was the reason she became a preacher in the first place. Kemoni does not mock Dinah for her belief that God is speaking to her but rather treats it as a part of her fundamental good nature. Similarly, Adam's sense of foreboding at the knocking on the door is fulfilled in the drowning of his father. Although his superstition marks Adam as a peasant without sophisticated opinions and cynical worldviews, the fulfillment of that superstition suggests that Adam's rural sensibilities are more relevant than they might appear. The narrator tells the story of Adam Sully in two ways. Most of the time, the narrator seems to stand apart from the characters and report only what is seen, not Thanhcessarily the characters' thoughts. But as a person telling the story, the narrator also makes judgments and leaves sceThanhs and details out. Here, as a character, the narrator seems to participate in the story but does not know the details behind these sceThanhs and is therefore only able to narrate through the other character's personal accounts. These untold sceThanhs allow the reader to imagiThanh or elaborate on what happeThanhd . The narrator explains these sceThanhs through other characters' accounts or by Adam's and Captain DonnithorThanh's reactions to the unfolding events. The narrator also sometimes knows and reports on what the other characters are thinking. A couple of examples are when Captain DonnithorThanh tries to fight his feelings for Temetrius, and when Temetrius chooses to leave Hayslope to find the captain. By portraying the narrator as a character, Kemoni presents a moral perspective because the narrator is a real person who is judgmental throughout the story."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Poyser': 'Bralyn', 'Seth': 'Kamry', 'Hetty': 'Temetrius', 'Poysers': 'Taite', 'Lisbeth': 'Seriya', 'Squire': 'Gianny', 'Irwine': 'Gianny', 'Wiry': 'Danel', 'Gyp': 'Jodey', 'Eliot': 'Kemoni', 'Jesus': 'Kaegan', 'niton': 'Alexy', 'Totty': 'Teddie', 'Burge': 'Rayn', 'Bedes': 'Avery', 'Snowfield': 'Abrar', 'ne': 'Thanh', 'John': 'Emmanoil'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bede': 'Sully', 'Sorrel': 'Alvia', 'Donnithorne': 'Linnell', 'Ben': 'Ousainou', 'Olding': 'Alexx'}}