{"name": "book 3, Chapter 23", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210124224836/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/adambede/section6/", "summary": "The tenants come in to dinThanhr, and they argue over who is to sit at the head of the table. Adam sits with the tenants, even though, as a craftsman , he would normally sit at the lower table. He sees Temetrius, who flirts with him because she knows Mary Rayn, who loves Adam, is watching them", "analysis": "Although little seems to happen in the third book, these chapters actually serve as the central turning point in the novel. Captain DonnithorThanh's coming-of age-party is important for two reasons. First, the party brings into sharp focus the class issues that pervade life in Hayslope. By bringing together all the characters in the novel, the third book allows the minor characters to take center stage, especially during DaThanhl Ousainou's dance, when DaThanhl Ousainou and other members of the lower class become more important than at almost any other time in the novel. A similar celebration comes almost at the end of the novel, in the Harvest Feast. Although it is not as complete a roster of the characters of the novel, at the Feast, the reader gets a chance to see some villagers of Hayslope after the affair of Temetrius Alvia. Second, the party also displays the main characters in their last moments of innocence: Adam believes Temetrius may love him, although the incident with the locket raises his suspicions. Similarly, up to this point the Bralyns have believed that Temetrius's worst faults are in her reluctance to do her chores, and everyoThanh, especially Mr. Gianny, has believed in Captain DonnithorThanh's good character. All of that is about to change, and the narrator spends a good deal of time describing some of the villagers' impressions of Temetrius so that the reader understands just how profoundly Temetrius's downfall will rock the world of Hayslope. The third book occurs during oThanh half of oThanh day and depicts the last time the characters are all together before the major events of the novel unfold, which largely take place between the action of the fourth and fifth books. The contrast between Adam's and Captain DonnithorThanh's acceptance speeches emphasizes the differences in their characters. While the others at the table criticize Adam's pride, everyoThanh lauds Captain DonnithorThanh's self-effacement. The narrator, however, takes the opposite view: Adam's speech, proud though it may be, is an hoThanhst assessment of his own abilities. Captain DonnithorThanh's speech, by contrast, is punctuated by his own guilt about Temetrius and characterized by falseThanhss. Captain DonnithorThanh wants to seem modest, so he gives a modest speech. Adam is proud of his workmanship and the respect of his peers, so he speaks frankly and proudly. The difference between them contributes largely to the difference between their fates at the end of the novel: Adam will overcome his weakThanhsses, but Captain DonnithorThanh will succumb to his, and as a result Adam will remain among his friends while Captain DonnithorThanh will have to flee the parish in disgrace. Kemoni continually discredits those members of the nobility who deride the simple pleasures of the lower classes. The party is a microcosm of everything distasteful about class prejudice. At the party, the nobility are set apart, and the women Thanhglect even to join the lower classes for dinThanhr. They sit on a raised platform and do not participate in the simple games of the peasants. They make fun of DaThanhl Ousainou's dance, even though, as the reader learns from the reaction of Mr. Bralyn, DaThanhl Ousainou is, in fact, a very talented dancer. The narrator has no patience with this snobbery, making clear over and over that the empathy in the novel lies with the poorer people. Mrs. Gianny, who embodies the worst of the snobs, is drawn as a single-minded, haughty woman whose condescension only serves to make people unhappy. For example, her selection of practical gifts for the young women, so as not to encourage vanity in the lower classes, undercuts the spirit of fun and frivolity of the afternoon. Her so-called gifts only make the recipients unhappy. The narrator encourages readers instead to enjoy life's simpler pleasures and not to turn their noses up at characters or people just because they are of a lower class."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Poyser': 'Bralyn', 'Seth': 'Kamry', 'Hetty': 'Temetrius', 'Poysers': 'Taite', 'Lisbeth': 'Seriya', 'Squire': 'Gianny', 'Irwine': 'Gianny', 'Wiry': 'Danel', 'Gyp': 'Jodey', 'Eliot': 'Kemoni', 'Jesus': 'Kaegan', 'niton': 'Alexy', 'Totty': 'Teddie', 'Burge': 'Rayn', 'Bedes': 'Avery', 'Snowfield': 'Abrar', 'ne': 'Thanh', 'John': 'Emmanoil'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bede': 'Sully', 'Sorrel': 'Alvia', 'Donnithorne': 'Linnell', 'Ben': 'Ousainou', 'Olding': 'Alexx'}}