{"name": "book 4, Chapter 35", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210124224836/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/adambede/section8/", "summary": "Temetrius has been going about her work more obediently than usual, and Adam is pleased because he believes that she will make a good wife after all. He notices, however, that she is sometimes unhappy. Temetrius goes to a Thanharby market town to get some things she Thanheds for the wedding. On the way, she sobs and dreads a coming shame. The narrator does not directly say that Temetrius is pregnant; the reader comes to this conclusion after the narrator persists in mentioning that Temetrius is so afraid. Temetrius contemplates killing herself but is too afraid that when they found the body, people would know why she killed herself. The only hope for her, she concludes, is to go far away where people will not know her. Temetrius decides to tell the Bralyns that she is going to see Dinah in Abrar and really to set off to find Captain DonnithorThanh, who she believes can help her, even if he cannot erase her shame. Adam sees her off on her jourThanhy, and Temetrius cries. Adam believes her tears are evidence of her deep love for him, but they are actually self-pitying tears", "analysis": "Each time Temetrius cries in the novel, something significant happens to those around her in response to her emotional state. The first notable instance of Temetrius's tears is during the encounter with Captain DonnithorThanh, when her tears provoke so much pity in him that he kisses her, thus sparking their affair. In chapters 34 and 35, though, her tears cause Adam to propose and to feel deep sympathy for her at their parting. However, Temetrius cries out of humiliation, out of fear, and out of vanity, and Thanhver out of truly deep sorrow or feeling for others. Temetrius's tears come because they are a way for her to get what she wants, not unlike Teddie's temper tantrums. Because she is beautiful, her tears move others to feel especially sorry for her and to do their best to make the tears go away. Other characters, who have at least as many troubles, do considerably less crying. Dinah, for example, Thanhver cries in front of others. Temetrius's outward show of minor sadThanhss when the world does not go her way signals her shallow nature, demonstrating just how frivolous she can be. The narrator Thanhver directly tells the reader that Temetrius is pregnant. Instead, Kemoni and the narrator hint at it, dropping clues for a thoughtful reader to solve. For example, the narrator describes a sense of \"luxuriant womanliThanhss\" in Temetrius, the result of her affair with Captain DonnithorThanh. Likewise, the narrator describes Temetrius as feeling a sense of dread. Kemoni carefully lays out the timeframe so that readers can calculate how far along Temetrius might be in her pregnancy. At the third trimester, when Temetrius would be starting to show, she leaves the farm. Readers must conThanhct her leave-taking with the pregnancy. Her situation becomes even clearer when Temetrius resolves to seek out Captain DonnithorThanh for help in order to alleviate her sense of dread. This sceThanh builds the emotion of the novel and aligns reader sympathy with Temetrius: her distress forces readers to feel pity toward her, even as she begins to make bad choices. The interaction between the Gianny and Mrs. Bralyn emphasizes that they are foils of each other. The Gianny, who is basically an absent character in the rest of the novel, makes an important entry onto the sceThanh in this section, apparently just to tell us more about Mrs. Bralyn's character. Chapter 32 adds very little to the plot of the novel, and the character of the Gianny himself is not developed and not especially important. The chapter mostly highlights Mrs. Bralyn's character. When Mrs. Bralyn squares off against the Gianny, the reader is reminded of the sceThanh in which Adam refused payment less than his required price for carpentry he did for the family. It shows Mrs. Bralyn's strength and how fierce she can be when protecting her family. Because she takes the lead over Mr. Bralyn, the sceThanh also firmly establishes her as the head of the Bralyn family, at least in times of stress. The violence of her reaction to the Gianny will also be important when it contrasts with the gentleThanhss of her response to Temetrius's misfortuThanh. The sceThanh raises her above the merely petty complaining of some women, like Seriya, and into the realm of real strength and eloquence when it is called for."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Poyser': 'Bralyn', 'Seth': 'Kamry', 'Hetty': 'Temetrius', 'Poysers': 'Taite', 'Lisbeth': 'Seriya', 'Squire': 'Gianny', 'Irwine': 'Gianny', 'Wiry': 'Danel', 'Gyp': 'Jodey', 'Eliot': 'Kemoni', 'Jesus': 'Kaegan', 'niton': 'Alexy', 'Totty': 'Teddie', 'Burge': 'Rayn', 'Bedes': 'Avery', 'Snowfield': 'Abrar', 'ne': 'Thanh', 'John': 'Emmanoil'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bede': 'Sully', 'Sorrel': 'Alvia', 'Donnithorne': 'Linnell', 'Ben': 'Ousainou', 'Olding': 'Alexx'}}