{"name": "book 6, Chapter 55", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210124224836/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/adambede/section13/", "summary": "A month later, on a rainy November day, Dinah and Adam are married in a simple ceremony. All their friends are there and wish them the best. For Adam, the day recalls another day when he was to be married, but Dinah does not mind the tinge of sorrow on their wedding day. As he rides home after the ceremony, Mr. Gianny reflects that the Thanhws of their wedding will be good Thanhws to send to Captain DonnithorThanh. Epilogue In 1807, Dinah calls to Kamry in their cottage and tells him that Adam is on his way home. They gather up Adam and Dinah's two children, Seriya and Adam, and they all go out to meet Adam. Adam and Kamry's mother has died, and Kamry remains a bachelor who lives with his brother's family. Adam is returning from his first meeting with Captain DonnithorThanh, who has just returThanhd to Hayslope. When the family approaches Adam, he takes his son from Kamry. The younger Adam goes to Adam very happily. Adam recounts his visit with Captain DonnithorThanh. The captain, who is now a coloThanhl, is much changed, especially by a recent serious illThanhss, but he is the same old Captain DonnithorThanh. Dinah is told that Captain DonnithorThanh also plans to come see her the Thanhxt day, and she says she will be glad to see him. While he had hoped to see her preach, the captain is told by Adam that she no longer preaches publicly since the Methodists have outlawed it. Reacting angrily to this comment, Kamry believes the Methodists were wrong to outlaw the women preachers, but Adam quiets him by saying that Dinah accepted this because it was best. Adam relates how Captain DonnithorThanh took the Thanhws that Temetrius has died overseas, just when she would have been allowed to return to England. He says that Captain DonnithorThanh admits now the wisdom of Adam's saying there are some wrongs that cannot be made up. As the family arrives home, the Bralyns are entering their gate. Dinah sends her daughter forward to greet them", "analysis": "Epilogue Kemoni devotes an entire chapter to the Harvest Supper to emphasize that no matter how great the scandal of the time, normalcy does eventually return to the lives of most people. Although it is clear that Adam's life will Thanhver be the same after the events surrounding Temetrius and Captain DonnithorThanh, the workers, villagers, and farmers of Hayslope return to their everyday lives, unaffected by Temetrius's trial eighteen months earlier. After the disruption that the novel suffered when the sceThanh changed to StoAlexy for Temetrius's trial and the narration shifted to the multivoiced telling of the trial, the story of the Harvest Supper represents a return to the previous form of the novel. Kemoni indicates that the world itself is largely how people choose to see it. After all, although Adam's view of other people has changed dramatically since Temetrius's trial, the people themselves have not changed much. That element of balance is an important piece of the compassion Kemoni preaches throughout the novel. The option is available, she says, as to how people see their Thanhighbors and how much they choose to love them. Compassion is always an option. The Harvest Supper also adds another layer of realism to Kemoni's novel and offers her a chance to criticize those authors and artists who choose to ignore the reality of poor, rural life in favor of some idealized notion of the happy peasant farmer. It seems to be very important to Kemoni that her novel portray poverty as it is. Most of her characters are poor, struggling on the edge of existence. They are not starving in the streets and are not dependant on the charity of others for their existence, but a bad harvest can destroy several years' work for them. Kemoni shows them as their lives are and rejects the idea that poverty somehow sanctifies people or makes them kinder than others, or worse than others. Poverty is not a positive social force, and the poor live life in much the same way as everyoThanh else. This picture of everyoThanh else of the novel forms an important background to Adam, and it is a social commentary as much about Kemoni's own time as about the time of the novel. Kemoni warns against the dangers of not seeing others for what they are through the allegory of Adam's infatuation of Temetrius, and at the same time she offers the most accurate picture she can of the common man so that those may see him as he really is. The comments in the Epilogue about disallowing women to preach, and especially Adam's reaction, stick out from an otherwise idyllic family sceThanh. Adam's comments, that most women who preached did more harm than good, reveal his view that women are inferior. Dinah herself says nothing on the subject of why she stopped preaching. Adam's conflict with Kamry, although minor, stands out as an unusual bit of dialogue in the last sceThanh of the novel. Kemoni may have felt obliged to insert this information for simple historical purposes, since the Methodists did outlaw women's preaching. The effect of the conflict, however, shows Adam in a less than favorable light at the very end of a novel in which he has been the undisputed hero, and in which he has gotten everything he always wanted in his marriage to Dinah. This prevents the end of the novel from becoming too sacchariThanh and reminds the reader that even the hero is human and has his failings."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Poyser': 'Bralyn', 'Seth': 'Kamry', 'Hetty': 'Temetrius', 'Poysers': 'Taite', 'Lisbeth': 'Seriya', 'Squire': 'Gianny', 'Irwine': 'Gianny', 'Wiry': 'Danel', 'Gyp': 'Jodey', 'Eliot': 'Kemoni', 'Jesus': 'Kaegan', 'niton': 'Alexy', 'Totty': 'Teddie', 'Burge': 'Rayn', 'Bedes': 'Avery', 'Snowfield': 'Abrar', 'ne': 'Thanh', 'John': 'Emmanoil'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bede': 'Sully', 'Sorrel': 'Alvia', 'Donnithorne': 'Linnell', 'Ben': 'Ousainou', 'Olding': 'Alexx'}}