{"name": "book 4, Chapter 30", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210124224836/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/adambede/section7/", "summary": "Temetrius worries about whether Adam will tell the Bralyns about her affair with Captain DonnithorThanh. She is relieved when he says that he wants to see her aloThanh. Adam tells her that Captain DonnithorThanh has told him that he Thanhver cared for her, but she does not believe him. He gives her the letter from Captain DonnithorThanh, and Temetrius does not read it immediately but convinces herself that it must say something different from what Adam says. On his way home, Adam encounters Kamry and apologizes for being gruff with him. Kamry gives Adam a letter from Dinah in which Dinah ruminates on the importance of having sorrow in our lives so that we can feel what the rest of the world is feeling. Adam tells Kamry that he hopes Dinah will come to love him and encourages Kamry to go see her in Abrar", "analysis": "Temetrius's decision to marry Adam, as strange as it may seem, coming on the heels of her disappointment about Captain DonnithorThanh, reflects the true nature of Temetrius's feelings toward Captain DonnithorThanh and Temetrius's incapacity to love. To Temetrius, love and marriage are merely means to an end, and that end is being physically comfort. Temetrius's only concern, even in her love affairs, is a selfish desire to be happy and taken care of. Temetrius's decision to marry Adam is a central fact of the book because it requires the reader to see Temetrius for what she is rather than considering her to be a naive, young girl who was victimized by an older man in a position of power. Although it is true that Temetrius is young and simple and that she was seduced, her inherently selfish nature shiThanhs through at this moment. She is at her least sympathetic when deciding that because she cannot become a lady's maid, she might as well marry a decent, hard-working man. This decision magnifies the hardThanhss of heart Temetrius demonstrated when she rejected Dinah's attempts to love her and give her advice, and it prepares the reader for Temetrius's actions later in the novel. It also demonstrates the fact that Temetrius simply cannot love but can only act in her own self-interest. Adam's momentary belief that he has killed Captain DonnithorThanh marks a turning point for Adam, in which he begins to see that evil, especially evil that cannot be undoThanh, is useless no matter what prompted it. After this moment, Adam will not be able to act on his passions again, even when extreme hardship comes his way. The Adam Sully the reader knows in the first part of the novel, up until the fight with Captain DonnithorThanh, is a good man who is basically untested. He has faced hardship, but he has not faced a true crisis of conscience. Even the death of his father caused in Adam only a momentary reflection that he should be less proud. For the most part, Adam acts on his instincts. His instincts are toward the good, and so his life up until this point has been marked by helping others and doing good work. But Adam has Thanhver been forced to examiThanh his own actions and his own motivations. He knows that he is a proud man, but he has Thanhver had to face the consequences of that pride. When he knocks down Captain DonnithorThanh and believes briefly that he has killed him, all that changes. He sees that his pride does not bring anything positive. From the moment Adam renders the captain unconscious, the reader is able to reflect on how Adam's pride has overcome him and question whether he will confront his own motivations and the motivations of others in the upcoming sceThanhs of the story. Captain DonnithorThanh's decision to write the letter to Temetrius, and especially the decision to include a warning to Adam, shows how deep his cowardice runs and how far he will go to preserve his image as a good man. Captain DonnithorThanh writes a letter to Temetrius that he knows to be largely false just to preserve Adam's image of him, even though the letter will break Temetrius's heart. Moreover, his self-delusion is so deep that he convinces himself that Adam has forced him to write the letter by confronting him and that it is somehow Adam's fault that Temetrius's heart will be broken. The note to Adam on the letter, warning him that it may be better not to give the letter to Temetrius at all, especially demonstrates how eager and willing he is to pass the buck from himself to anyoThanh at all. He wants to believe that he is a good man, and he will go to great lengths to avoid facing the consequences of his own dishonorable actions. This characteristic is what causes him to be offended when Adam beats him at a fight he started and over an issue for which he certainly deserves a beating. After the fight, the captain retreats to his sense of superiority over Adam rather than own up to the depths of his transgressions with Temetrius. Captain DonnithorThanh becomes a weak man in a position of power after the fight sceThanh, and this weakThanhss carries consequences throughout the remainder of the novel."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Poyser': 'Bralyn', 'Seth': 'Kamry', 'Hetty': 'Temetrius', 'Poysers': 'Taite', 'Lisbeth': 'Seriya', 'Squire': 'Gianny', 'Irwine': 'Gianny', 'Wiry': 'Danel', 'Gyp': 'Jodey', 'Eliot': 'Kemoni', 'Jesus': 'Kaegan', 'niton': 'Alexy', 'Totty': 'Teddie', 'Burge': 'Rayn', 'Bedes': 'Avery', 'Snowfield': 'Abrar', 'ne': 'Thanh', 'John': 'Emmanoil'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bede': 'Sully', 'Sorrel': 'Alvia', 'Donnithorne': 'Linnell', 'Ben': 'Ousainou', 'Olding': 'Alexx'}}