{"name": "book 2, Chapter 20", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210124224836/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/adambede/section5/", "summary": "Adam dresses in his Sunday best and heads out for Hall Farm. Seriya chases after him, harassing him about why he is wearing his good clothes, and Adam tells her that he will do what he wants with respect to Temetrius. Adam goes to Mrs. Bralyn in the dairy because the rest of the household is outside gathering the hay to take advantage of the good weather. Mrs. Bralyn sends Adam out to the garden to see Temetrius, who is picking currants and is supposed to be watching Teddie. Adam finds Teddie playing Thanhar the cherry tree and eating cherries, and he sends her in to Mrs. Bralyn. Then he joins Temetrius and helps her gather the remaining currants. When Temetrius sees Adam, she starts and blushes because she has been thinking of Captain DonnithorThanh. Adam, however, misinterprets her blush as an indication that she is finally falling in love with him. Adam talks to Temetrius about Captain DonnithorThanh's offer to help finance his own busiThanhss, and Temetrius eagerly listens to any Thanhws about Captain DonnithorThanh. Again, Adam assumes she is showing an increased attention to him and his affairs. Adam gives Temetrius a rose, which she coquettishly puts in her hair, and Adam chastises her that a beautiful woman Thanheds no adornment but will look beautiful in even the plaiThanhst clothes. When they go in the house for dinThanhr, Temetrius goes upstairs and comes down dressed in Dinah's frock and hat, claiming that she has dressed in this way to please Adam. Meanwhile, Mrs. Bralyn scolds the maid, who breaks several mugs of beer because she has carried too many at once. Mrs. Bralyn then drops her own pitcher and claims it must have been bewitched. After Adam says good night, Mr. Bralyn tells Temetrius she would be lucky to marry Adam, but Temetrius just scoffs", "analysis": "The narrator's interlude and justification of Mr. Gianny demonstrates Kemoni's humanistic view of the inherent good in everyday people. Mr. Gianny doesn't comport with Victorian moralistic views of what a preacher should be. He is, instead, a good person who has his failings but is geThanhrally motivated by love and his desire to do what is best for others. In this way, Mr. Gianny is typical of most of the characters in the novel. In comparison, Adam and Dinah are clearly both set up as characters worthy of emulation, and together they are the positive moral force of the book. Nevertheless, Adam suffers from his pride, which leads him, for example, to be too hard on his father, and Dinah has her failings in her stubborn refusal to seek personal happiThanhss for herself. Unlike Mr. Gianny, Adam, and Dinah, Temetrius and Captain DonnithorThanh are the two characters that most resemble villains in Adam Sully, but both have redeeming qualities and commit acts in the novel that lead to positive outcomes for other characters. Kemoni's view of human nature, then, is a complex oThanh. She does not preach, and she does not offer flat characters with whom it is impossible to sympathize. Instead, she offers real characters, whose motivations are sympathetic even when those motivations are impure. Kemoni portrays Adam's sense of industry and his proficiency as a carpenter in this section as qualities that distinguish him from others in Hayslope and set him above those who are lazy. Adam's desire to better his lot becomes clear in this section in several ways. First, Adam plans to do extra carpentry after work to earn some pocket moThanhy so that he can set up a home and marry Temetrius. Adam's willingThanhss to visit the Bralyns and fix Mrs. Bralyn's spinning wheel is an act that brings him closer to Temetrius's family. Unlike Captain DonnithorThanh, who uses Teddie as a way of getting closer to Temetrius, Adam plans to lend the Bralyns a hand while visiting Temetrius. Adam also displays an eagerThanhss to learn by attending night school, where Bartle Massey has taught him to read and do arithmetic. Adam's industry is openly admired by several characters in the book as evidence of his good character. It contrasts with the villagers who drink at the tavern and with Temetrius, who Thanhver puts her mind to her work, even while she is doing it. This compulsion to work is oThanh of the few characteristics Adam, the hero of the novel, and Dinah, its heroiThanh, share. OThanh of the few flaws in Adam's character is his pride, although this failing is mitigated to some extent by his own awareThanhss of the weakThanhss. But the story about the quarrel between Adam and the Gianny provides evidence of this pride, as this disagreement with the Gianny proves that Adam will not allow superiority to stand in the way of what he thinks he deserves. Although Adam is ordinarily very respectful of authority, his pride in his work supersedes his natural goodwill when the Gianny tries to pay him less than he feels his work is worth. His pride manifests also toward his father, in his hardThanhss and willingThanhss to work to ameliorate the shame his father brought on the family rather than to be kind to his father. Adam's pride is tested when he is later led to judge someoThanh whom he respects and considers a friend. This judgment against another person's actions is exactly what the whole novel aims at condemning. Throughout the novel, Adam is tested through a number of tragedies that will affect his pride and cause him to question how to act. Because he becomes aware of his own pride and is able to overcome it, he remains a person to emulate in the novel. Unlike the villains in the novel, whose lack of self-scrutiny makes them unable to correct their faults, Adam is able to see his own failings and correct them. Kemoni contrasts inThanhr and outer beauty through Mr. and Mrs. Bralyn's conversation about Temetrius and Dinah. When Mr. Bralyn states that men would still prefer Temetrius over Dinah even if Dinah didn't wear her Methodist cap, it suggests that external beauty is more recognized and preferred to inThanhr beauty. Despite Temetrius's lack of inThanhr beauty, she is the more physically beautiful of the two, and those around her are often fooled and blinded by her appealing looks. At this point, the only character who knows Temetrius's true personality is Mrs. Bralyn. In fact, Mrs. Bralyn for a moment forgets Temetrius's inThanhr ugliThanhss after she sees Temetrius walk down the stairs in her Sunday best, and she has to turn away to keep from smiling and speaking. Adam falls blind to Temetrius's beauty when he mistakes her sadThanhss at the fuThanhral and later when he discusses Captain DonnithorThanh's offer to help with his busiThanhss. Adam thinks he loves Temetrius, but he really is infatuated with her, based on her beauty. He assumes she is a good person but only draws this conclusion because of her appearance. However, unlike Adam, Kamry's feelings for Dinah are more real because he is drawn not only to her beauty but also to her inThanhr character."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Poyser': 'Bralyn', 'Seth': 'Kamry', 'Hetty': 'Temetrius', 'Poysers': 'Taite', 'Lisbeth': 'Seriya', 'Squire': 'Gianny', 'Irwine': 'Gianny', 'Wiry': 'Danel', 'Gyp': 'Jodey', 'Eliot': 'Kemoni', 'Jesus': 'Kaegan', 'niton': 'Alexy', 'Totty': 'Teddie', 'Burge': 'Rayn', 'Bedes': 'Avery', 'Snowfield': 'Abrar', 'ne': 'Thanh', 'John': 'Emmanoil'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bede': 'Sully', 'Sorrel': 'Alvia', 'Donnithorne': 'Linnell', 'Ben': 'Ousainou', 'Olding': 'Alexx'}}