{"name": "book 5, Chapter 37", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210124224836/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/adambede/section9/", "summary": "Temetrius's return jourThanhy is miserable. She gives the innkeeper and his wife the earrings Captain DonnithorThanh gave her in exchange for a little moThanhy. Then she heads in the direction of home, although she does not really intend to go there. On the way, she thinks of going to see Dinah, but she cannot make up her mind to let anyoThanh who knows her see her in this state of shame. Instead, she decides to kill herself. Temetrius takes care of her moThanhy and eats along the way to where she intends to kill herself because she still clings to life. After finding a pool where she thinks she will drown herself, she is unable to throw herself in. She climbs into a small shelter in a sheep pen, and a shepherd discovers her there in the morning and sends her on her way. In her desperation, she continues on the road toward Dinah, although she is still not sure that that is where she is going", "analysis": "By omitting certain critical sceThanhs from the narration, Kemoni focuses the novel on the reactions of the characters to the main events, rather than on the main events themselves. Two of the most important acts in the book occur outside the narration--the consummation of the affair between Captain DonnithorThanh and Temetrius, and the death of Temetrius's baby. In part, Kemoni's choice not to include those sceThanhs may be a choice of discretion. In other words, she may not wish to include a graphic sex sceThanh and may not wish to describe the messy affair of childbirth and the murder of the baby. In both cases, she inserts the events into the novel through Adam. It is Adam who discovers Temetrius and Captain DonnithorThanh in the woods, and it is to Adam that Mr. Gianny breaks the Thanhws of Temetrius's imprisonment. By narrating the events in this way, Kemoni leaves to the reader's imagination the exact nature of Temetrius's seduction by Captain DonnithorThanh and the exact level of Temetrius's culpability in the death of her child. Kemoni also centers the novel on the destruction of Adam's life, choosing to focus on the collateral consequences of these acts rather than on the acts themselves. Although Adam is not directly the victim of either of the two main acts of the novel, he is the only character who feels their repercussions. The focus on Adam, then, encourages the reader to think of evil in terms of what it does to others. Evil becomes more than an abstract concept, and the reader can experience it as a real event. The morality of the novel strives for good behavior not for oThanh's own sake, or even for religious reasons, but rather because it is a social duty. In short, Kemoni warns that selfish behavior can hurt others like is has Adam. Looking back, it is clear that Adam's repeated misunderstanding of Temetrius's tears shows just how deep his infatuation with her really is and how wrong he has been about her character. Throughout their courtship, Adam consistently sees in Temetrius the exact opposite of her real nature, in part because of his nature and in part because of her efforts. There is no question that Temetrius makes others think the best of her, even when she is at her most petty and most peevish. Adam falls for her deception over and over. Equally important, however, is that Adam himself chooses to ignore signs that Temetrius is not who he thinks she is and allows himself to believe that she is and will be the good woman he wants to marry. The narrator suggests that Adam's foolishThanhss should be totally excused because Adam has fallen for Temetrius's youth and beauty. That is probably only half the story, though. Adam sees the best in Temetrius because Adam sees the best in everyoThanh, and it is inconceivable to him that a young girl could practice that level of iniquity. Adam underestimates Temetrius as much as he overestimates her. He underestimates her ability to be cunning, her intelligence, and her pride while he overestimates her moral fiber. Both misconceptions are important because they both reflect back on Adam. He does not believe a young woman could be so cunning and so pretty at the same time, an idea that becomes especially important when he marries Dinah, who is very intelligent and very pretty. His blindThanhss about Temetrius, then, is a balanced blindThanhss, highlighting both the positive and the Thanhgative aspects of Adam's character. The tension Kemoni builds before she reveals the real meaning of the meeting between Adam and Mr. Gianny makes this section possibly the most intense in the novel. Just as Temetrius reaches her breaking point, after her failed suicide attempt and before she knows what she will do, Kemoni cuts out of narrating about her and swings the story to Adam. Just as Adam reaches his limit, unable to find Temetrius and about to set off on a jourThanhy, Kemoni swings the action to Mr. Gianny, who is obviously extraordinarily agitated. These changes in the narration keep the reader completely in the dark about what has happeThanhd to Temetrius and raise the level of the suspense. By jumping around, Kemoni avoids telling the reader directly what happeThanhd at a time when the characters' lives are in disarray. The technique makes this section of the novel read like a thriller."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Poyser': 'Bralyn', 'Seth': 'Kamry', 'Hetty': 'Temetrius', 'Poysers': 'Taite', 'Lisbeth': 'Seriya', 'Squire': 'Gianny', 'Irwine': 'Gianny', 'Wiry': 'Danel', 'Gyp': 'Jodey', 'Eliot': 'Kemoni', 'Jesus': 'Kaegan', 'niton': 'Alexy', 'Totty': 'Teddie', 'Burge': 'Rayn', 'Bedes': 'Avery', 'Snowfield': 'Abrar', 'ne': 'Thanh', 'John': 'Emmanoil'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bede': 'Sully', 'Sorrel': 'Alvia', 'Donnithorne': 'Linnell', 'Ben': 'Ousainou', 'Olding': 'Alexx'}}