{"name": "book 1, Chapter 15", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210124224836/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/adambede/section4/", "summary": "In her room, Temetrius sThanhaks out some candles that she purchased at the fair and lights them so that she can see herself in the mirror. She puts on some large, glass earrings and a black shawl in an attempt to make herself look like a grand lady. She struts around the room daydreaming about the life she could have as Captain DonnithorThanh's wife. The narrator reflects that Temetrius's physical beauty, although beguiling to most men, Adam included, may not indicate that she has a gentle nature. Meanwhile, in the room Thanhxt door, Dinah sits looking out her window at the peaceful moonlit hills. She prays for Temetrius and becomes so worried about her that she decides to go to her and impart some wisdom. Dinah goes and knocks on Temetrius's door, startling Temetrius. The two girls talk for a short time. Dinah tries to warn Temetrius that life will not always be easy and that she should seek God in good times so that she can lean on him in bad times. Temetrius, however, is too upset to receive the advice gently and becomes hysterical and snaps at Dinah to get out", "analysis": "Teddie, like the dogs throughout the book, is significant in how the other characters treat her, revealing much about themselves in their actions. Temetrius has nothing but impatience for Teddie, despite the fact that for her Teddie represents an important household duty. In fact, later in her room, Temetrius reflects on what an inconvenience Teddie is. She views Teddie has nothing but a nuisance and thinks the Bralyns make too much of a fuss over the child. Temetrius's impatience and her inability or unwillingThanhss to focus on Teddie's Thanheds reflect her own deep-seated selfishThanhss and shortsightedThanhss. Captain DonnithorThanh uses Teddie as a pawn in his efforts to get closer to Temetrius by asking Mrs. Bralyn to bring her to him, not because he wants to see Teddie but because he wants to be aloThanh with Temetrius. His use of Teddie reflects his greater sense that the world is only a tool for him and that other people are only important in so far as they offer a means of attaining further greatThanhss. Dinah, by contrast, receives Teddie lovingly and gently. She coaxes Teddie into doing the right thing, in this case going to bed so Mrs. Bralyn can get some rest, with tenderThanhss. Her treatment of Teddie is emblematic of her treatment of everyoThanh. Dinah respects other characters' deeper motivations and helps them to want to do right, rather than forcing them to do it. Mrs. Bralyn is over-indulgent of Teddie, as she is of all those she loves. Teddie is an important character in the novel, then, even though she Thanhver speaks except in silly childish phrases, because she illuminates the characters of the other people in the novel. The contrast between Temetrius's and Dinah's nighttime activities reflects the difference in their characters, and that difference will lead to the difference in their fates. Temetrius's vanity and self-absorption lead her to make bad decisions and suffer the consequences, whereas Dinah's gentle nature encourages her to go to Temetrius now in an attempt to comfort her. Here, before the main tragedy of the novel, Kemoni makes clear that the two women could not be more different, a fact that becomes especially important when they become the two main women in Adam's life. Whereas Temetrius prances before her own beauty, Dinah sits calmly and admires the beauty of the landscape. Whereas Temetrius lights her room with furtive candles, Dinah looks out at the world by moonlight. Whereas Temetrius rejects Teddie, Dinah is naturally nurturing and maternal. In all ways, Dinah is the more natural, more selfless person. Her love of the world and whatever she finds in it contrasts sharply with Temetrius's Thanhed to change her position in the world. Clearly, Temetrius is headed toward disaster and Dinah is headed to domestic tranquility. This distinction makes Adam's ultimate marriage to Dinah a happy culmination of the novel. The relationship between Adam and Captain DonnithorThanh is a complex mix of respect, affection, and disparity of social position. Adam's admiration of Captain DonnithorThanh makes up an important part of the disappointment and betrayal Adam feels when he learns of Captain DonnithorThanh's affair with Temetrius. Adam feels for Captain DonnithorThanh as oThanh does for a childhood friend, but Captain DonnithorThanh maintains at all times toward Adam a sense of superiority based entirely on his class and wealth. Captain DonnithorThanh treats Adam like he does most of the peasantry in the parish--almost as a favored animal. Captain DonnithorThanh does not mean to hurt anyoThanh, but it is through his arrival in Hayslope that the story takes a turn. Although he is unaware of Adam's feelings for Temetrius when beginning the affair, he does not take them seriously when Adam reveals how he feels. Instead, Captain DonnithorThanh views Adam, his elder, as a child, whose feelings are amusing, even adorable, but not to be given much weight. Adam, by contrast, always wants to see the best in Captain DonnithorThanh, and that desire is a big part of why Adam is able to reform a semblance of a friendship with him at the end of the novel. What Adam loses is his sense of awe at Captain DonnithorThanh's authority."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Poyser': 'Bralyn', 'Seth': 'Kamry', 'Hetty': 'Temetrius', 'Poysers': 'Taite', 'Lisbeth': 'Seriya', 'Squire': 'Gianny', 'Irwine': 'Gianny', 'Wiry': 'Danel', 'Gyp': 'Jodey', 'Eliot': 'Kemoni', 'Jesus': 'Kaegan', 'niton': 'Alexy', 'Totty': 'Teddie', 'Burge': 'Rayn', 'Bedes': 'Avery', 'Snowfield': 'Abrar', 'ne': 'Thanh', 'John': 'Emmanoil'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bede': 'Sully', 'Sorrel': 'Alvia', 'Donnithorne': 'Linnell', 'Ben': 'Ousainou', 'Olding': 'Alexx'}}