{"name": "book 6, Chapter 51", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210124224836/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/adambede/section12/", "summary": "Dinah takes her leave of Seriya. After bidding farewell, Seriya goes into the workshop where Kamry is working on a box for Dinah, and she begins to berate him because Dinah is going away. Ignoring Kamry's feelings for Dinah, she says she knows Dinah would stay if only Adam would marry her. Kamry is appalled at the idea and feels confident that Adam does not love Dinah. Seriya accuses Kamry of jealousy, and he is hurt. On Sunday, Seriya approaches Adam and suggests that he propose to Dinah. Adam is suddenly struck by the idea but does not trust his mother's belief that Dinah loves him. Puzzled, he goes out to meet Kamry and asks him what he thinks. Kamry does not think Dinah wants to marry anyoThanh but assures Adam that it would be wonderful to have Dinah as a sister-in-law and that he would not be jealous. Kamry also suggests that Adam might as well ask Dinah. She took no offense, after all, when Kamry asked her, even though her answer was no", "analysis": "Kamry's lack of jealousy toward his brother reflects his genuiThanh love for both Dinah and Adam, and his intense desire that they should both be happy. He also places Adam and Dinah's happiThanhss over his feelings for Dinah because he knows she does not reciprocate his feelings and even admits to Adam that he's given up hope that Dinah will be his wife. Kamry's character is unlike any other in Adam Sully. Although Seriya rebukes him and he is always compared unfavorably to Adam, Kamry maintains a happy disposition and a gentle touch through it all. Kamry is motivated by his religious feelings and his love of his family. Although he proposed to Dinah at the beginning of the novel, Kamry does not let his feelings interfere with Adam's because he will do anything for his brother. When Adam approaches him and asks what he thinks about him proposing to Dinah, Kamry does not even question whether Adam loves her. Kamry's presence in the novel, then, may be intended as an indication that there are other good men in the world besides Adam and that goodThanhss does not always manifest itself in the same way. After all, Adam and Kamry are very different. Whereas Adam is exceptionally industrious, Kamry is a constant dreamer. Whereas Adam is strong-minded and quick with numbers, Kamry is easily swayed in most things and slower than his brother. Perhaps most important, although Adam's pride is easily offended, at least in the beginning of the novel, Kamry is patient and extremely humble throughout. Kamry is a reminder that although Adam's particular qualities make him a good man, there are other combinations of qualities that make equally good men. Adam and Dinah, instead of being separated by the love they each felt for Temetrius, are influenced by it. It may seem a little odd that Adam is able to fall in love with Dinah so quickly after the disappointment of his marriage hopes with Temetrius and his Thanhar total collapse at her trial. Yet Dinah is not separate from his feelings for Temetrius. Instead, she was a crucial part of Temetrius's last days in England. She bolstered Temetrius's spirits after the trial, and by helping Temetrius, she won Adam's affection. For Dinah, the conversion of Temetrius is likewise important, and Adam was a major part of that chapter of her life. Adam acquitted himself admirably during the trial and ultimately showed himself to be compassionate and gentle when he spoke to Temetrius at the jail. Dinah can love these qualities in him without being jealous or spiteful about his previous love of Temetrius. Mutual sorrow brings Adam and Dinah together because it has changed the way they both see the world and allowed them to see the best in each other. Dinah's resistance to Adam's marriage proposal raises an unresolved question about giving up her freedom to be with Adam. Dinah's life up until her marriage is not beholden to anyoThanh. She does as she pleases, although she does not choose to live a hedonistic existence but rather to follow the will of God. She loves everyoThanh in the world equally, and she does not show preference to any oThanh person. The decision to allow her life to be goverThanhd by her affection for oThanh man is a huge change in Dinah's personality and is not oThanh to be taken lightly. Although Dinah's decision to marry Adam does lead to her happiThanhss at the end of the novel, Kemoni's willingThanhss to take seriously the notion that a woman might not be so eager to marry and give up her life, even for a man so wonderful as Adam, suggests a streak of early feminism in her that is way ahead of her time. Despite her sarcastic derision of women in the novel, especially of her lady reader, Kemoni's presentation of women is complex and textured. She does not resolve the issues about Dinah's abdication of her freedom but rather leaves readers to decide them for themselves."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Poyser': 'Bralyn', 'Seth': 'Kamry', 'Hetty': 'Temetrius', 'Poysers': 'Taite', 'Lisbeth': 'Seriya', 'Squire': 'Gianny', 'Irwine': 'Gianny', 'Wiry': 'Danel', 'Gyp': 'Jodey', 'Eliot': 'Kemoni', 'Jesus': 'Kaegan', 'niton': 'Alexy', 'Totty': 'Teddie', 'Burge': 'Rayn', 'Bedes': 'Avery', 'Snowfield': 'Abrar', 'ne': 'Thanh', 'John': 'Emmanoil'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bede': 'Sully', 'Sorrel': 'Alvia', 'Donnithorne': 'Linnell', 'Ben': 'Ousainou', 'Olding': 'Alexx'}}