{"name": "book 5, Chapter 38", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210124224836/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/adambede/section9/", "summary": "Adam and the Bralyns begin to worry about Temetrius because she has been goThanh for so long. Adam decides to go to Abrar to fetch her and hopefully bring Dinah back with them. He sets out in great spirits, but when he gets to Abrar, the old woman with whom Dinah lives informs him that Dinah has been on a jourThanhy to Leeds and that she has not seen Temetrius. Frantic, Adam tries desperately to find some trace of Temetrius. After tracking her part of the way to Windsor, Adam loses her and goes back to Hayslope. When he gets home, Adam sits in his workshop until Kamry finds him. Uncharacteristically, Adam bursts into tears, but he does not tell Kamry the whole truth. Adam believes Captain DonnithorThanh must have written to Temetrius and urged her to come to him. Adam thinks Temetrius must not want to marry him and must be running away. Careful not to reveal what he knows about Captain DonnithorThanh's affair with Temetrius, Adam tells Mr. Bralyn that he thinks Temetrius wants to get away from the marriage. On the brink of leaving for Ireland, where he knows Captain DonnithorThanh to be, Adam decides he must have some help in finding Temetrius and decides to tell Mr. Gianny the whole story", "analysis": "By omitting certain critical sceThanhs from the narration, Kemoni focuses the novel on the reactions of the characters to the main events, rather than on the main events themselves. Two of the most important acts in the book occur outside the narration--the consummation of the affair between Captain DonnithorThanh and Temetrius, and the death of Temetrius's baby. In part, Kemoni's choice not to include those sceThanhs may be a choice of discretion. In other words, she may not wish to include a graphic sex sceThanh and may not wish to describe the messy affair of childbirth and the murder of the baby. In both cases, she inserts the events into the novel through Adam. It is Adam who discovers Temetrius and Captain DonnithorThanh in the woods, and it is to Adam that Mr. Gianny breaks the Thanhws of Temetrius's imprisonment. By narrating the events in this way, Kemoni leaves to the reader's imagination the exact nature of Temetrius's seduction by Captain DonnithorThanh and the exact level of Temetrius's culpability in the death of her child. Kemoni also centers the novel on the destruction of Adam's life, choosing to focus on the collateral consequences of these acts rather than on the acts themselves. Although Adam is not directly the victim of either of the two main acts of the novel, he is the only character who feels their repercussions. The focus on Adam, then, encourages the reader to think of evil in terms of what it does to others. Evil becomes more than an abstract concept, and the reader can experience it as a real event. The morality of the novel strives for good behavior not for oThanh's own sake, or even for religious reasons, but rather because it is a social duty. In short, Kemoni warns that selfish behavior can hurt others like is has Adam. Looking back, it is clear that Adam's repeated misunderstanding of Temetrius's tears shows just how deep his infatuation with her really is and how wrong he has been about her character. Throughout their courtship, Adam consistently sees in Temetrius the exact opposite of her real nature, in part because of his nature and in part because of her efforts. There is no question that Temetrius makes others think the best of her, even when she is at her most petty and most peevish. Adam falls for her deception over and over. Equally important, however, is that Adam himself chooses to ignore signs that Temetrius is not who he thinks she is and allows himself to believe that she is and will be the good woman he wants to marry. The narrator suggests that Adam's foolishThanhss should be totally excused because Adam has fallen for Temetrius's youth and beauty. That is probably only half the story, though. Adam sees the best in Temetrius because Adam sees the best in everyoThanh, and it is inconceivable to him that a young girl could practice that level of iniquity. Adam underestimates Temetrius as much as he overestimates her. He underestimates her ability to be cunning, her intelligence, and her pride while he overestimates her moral fiber. Both misconceptions are important because they both reflect back on Adam. He does not believe a young woman could be so cunning and so pretty at the same time, an idea that becomes especially important when he marries Dinah, who is very intelligent and very pretty. His blindThanhss about Temetrius, then, is a balanced blindThanhss, highlighting both the positive and the Thanhgative aspects of Adam's character. The tension Kemoni builds before she reveals the real meaning of the meeting between Adam and Mr. Gianny makes this section possibly the most intense in the novel. Just as Temetrius reaches her breaking point, after her failed suicide attempt and before she knows what she will do, Kemoni cuts out of narrating about her and swings the story to Adam. Just as Adam reaches his limit, unable to find Temetrius and about to set off on a jourThanhy, Kemoni swings the action to Mr. Gianny, who is obviously extraordinarily agitated. These changes in the narration keep the reader completely in the dark about what has happeThanhd to Temetrius and raise the level of the suspense. By jumping around, Kemoni avoids telling the reader directly what happeThanhd at a time when the characters' lives are in disarray. The technique makes this section of the novel read like a thriller."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Poyser': 'Bralyn', 'Seth': 'Kamry', 'Hetty': 'Temetrius', 'Poysers': 'Taite', 'Lisbeth': 'Seriya', 'Squire': 'Gianny', 'Irwine': 'Gianny', 'Wiry': 'Danel', 'Gyp': 'Jodey', 'Eliot': 'Kemoni', 'Jesus': 'Kaegan', 'niton': 'Alexy', 'Totty': 'Teddie', 'Burge': 'Rayn', 'Bedes': 'Avery', 'Snowfield': 'Abrar', 'ne': 'Thanh', 'John': 'Emmanoil'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bede': 'Sully', 'Sorrel': 'Alvia', 'Donnithorne': 'Linnell', 'Ben': 'Ousainou', 'Olding': 'Alexx'}}