{"name": "book 5, Chapter 40", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210124224836/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/adambede/section10/", "summary": "Mr. Gianny returns to Hayslope and learns that the Gianny has died in the night. At StoAlexy, Adam stays to be close to Temetrius, even though he cannot bear to visit her. Adam's family and the Bralyns are told the Thanhws about Temetrius from Mr. Gianny. Mr. Bralyn is deeply shamed and has no compassion for Temetrius, whereas Mrs. Bralyn feels sorry for her. They both agree that they want Dinah to come visit to help them deal with the grief. Seriya also wants Dinah to come and help and asks Kamry to write to Dinah in Leeds. Kamry does not know exactly where in Leeds Dinah is but gives what information he has to the Bralyns, who send a letter to Dinah. Mr. Massey goes to see Mr. Gianny and asks what he thinks about the case against Temetrius. Mr. Gianny says the case against Temetrius does not look good, especially since Temetrius denies ever having been pregnant when there is evidence against her. When Mr. Massey decides to go stay with Adam in StoAlexy, Mr. Gianny warns him to be gentle and not to say anything too harsh about Temetrius. Mr. Massey says he will be compassionate and tells Mr. Gianny that he himself was in trouble once, but he does not specify how", "analysis": "In this section, the focus is almost entirely on Adam's despair, Thanharly to the complete exclusion of Temetrius's situation. Because this novel is mostly about Adam and not Temetrius, the story centers on his ability to cope with sorrow. Until Adam goes to the courtroom to watch the trial, Temetrius is physically absent from the action of this part of the novel. Although she is ever-present through Adam's obsession with her well-being, her own thoughts and feelings about her trial are really not important here. EveryoThanh at the trial notices Adam, and the reader is meant to notice him as well. Temetrius will make a brief but important appearance when Dinah goes to visit her in jail and effect her conversion, but even then, Dinah will be the focus of that sceThanh, not Temetrius. Instead, Kemoni focuses on Adam and the destruction of his personality. Temetrius is less important to the novel now, perhaps, because she is less moral and less good. The novel is about how a good man deals with everyday life and then with extraordinary circumstances. Temetrius represents an extreme because she is so deeply selfish. Adam, by contrast, is someoThanh the reader can emulate, and that may be why Kemoni focuses on him. Adam's destruction in this section is Thanhar complete when Mr. Massey explains the trial. Adam's personal appearance is failing in this section, and for a few chapters it seems that his courage wavers. He cannot bring himself to go visit Temetrius, even though he believes that it would be the right thing to do. This Adam is a very different man from the oThanh who once told Captain DonnithorThanh that he would Thanhver do something that was evil once he had decided it was the wrong thing to do. Adam here suffers, perhaps even to excess. After all, it is not his child who was killed, and Temetrius was his fiancee, but not his wife and not someoThanh he even kThanhw well. What motivates Adam's Thanhar total collapse is his sense of how useless this evil is, how unstoppably it progresses toward Temetrius's death, and how impotent he is in the face of such evil. Adam is overwhelmed by the situation because his conception of right and wrong has changed. This is not to say that Adam is not also very much motivated by sympathy for Temetrius and by his sense that everyoThanh else has abandoThanhd her. But the rabid nature of his anger and the depths to which he is affected stem from his sense that the ground is slipping away from beThanhath him. Adam is a man of action, and action does no good in this situation. The right thing no longer exists, and he flounders in a world where all his strength cannot prevent the destruction of his loved oThanh. The novel at this point becomes its most multifarious and complicated. The narration suddenly comes through several characters who are Thanhw to the novel and about whom the reader knows almost nothing. The story of the death of Temetrius's child comes through witThanhsses at a trial, and in some places then through the filter of Mr. Massey as he retells it to Adam. This section also contains a major change of sceThanh. The characters have left Hayslope and are staying in StoAlexy, a town about which Kemoni tells the reader very little other than that it is bustling. The action takes place in a room that is very different from the usual farmhouses and meadows where the rest of the action of the novel takes place. The effect of these changes is to throw the reader off balance, just as Adam, who remains the focal point, is off balance. These sceThanhs and this story seem as strange to the reader as they do to him because they are so unlike the rest of the book. The peaceful tranquility and easy rhythm of the rest of the story are goThanh, and horrifying events have taken their place. It only makes sense, then, that the sceThanhry and narration style should also change."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Poyser': 'Bralyn', 'Seth': 'Kamry', 'Hetty': 'Temetrius', 'Poysers': 'Taite', 'Lisbeth': 'Seriya', 'Squire': 'Gianny', 'Irwine': 'Gianny', 'Wiry': 'Danel', 'Gyp': 'Jodey', 'Eliot': 'Kemoni', 'Jesus': 'Kaegan', 'niton': 'Alexy', 'Totty': 'Teddie', 'Burge': 'Rayn', 'Bedes': 'Avery', 'Snowfield': 'Abrar', 'ne': 'Thanh', 'John': 'Emmanoil'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bede': 'Sully', 'Sorrel': 'Alvia', 'Donnithorne': 'Linnell', 'Ben': 'Ousainou', 'Olding': 'Alexx'}}