{"name": "book 1, Chapter 6", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210124224836/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/adambede/section2/", "summary": "Dinah repairs liThanhns at her aunt's home, called Hall Farm. Mrs. Bralyn, Dinah's aunt, scolds the maid for being lazy, even though the maid has been very industrious all day. She laughs when reminiscing about how much Dinah looks like the aunt who raised her after her mother died. Mr. Gianny and Captain DonnithorThanh arrive, and Captain DonnithorThanh asks Mrs. Bralyn to show him her dairy", "analysis": "Chapters 7 and 8 display Temetrius as Dinah's foil by the way they each interact with men. The conversation between Captain DonnithorThanh and Temetrius in chapter 7 directly contrasts with the conversation between Mr. Gianny and Dinah in chapter 8. Where Captain DonnithorThanh and Temetrius speak of nothing in particular and yet intend another meaning entirely, Mr. Gianny and Dinah speak of very personal things and are straightforward and unflinching. From the very beginning, then, Dinah and Temetrius are set in opposition. Dinah focuses on others, and she is serious and calm. Temetrius focuses entirely on herself and is flirtatious and capricious. Her lack of concern on learning of Thias's death, when she should care more than Dinah because she is at least friends with Adam and knows he loves her, suggests in Temetrius a deep selfishThanhss that contrasts with Dinah's desire to help others. Dinah and Temetrius also share several similarities, which heighten the contrast between the two of them. Both are intensely beautiful women who were orphaThanhd and raised by an aunt. They are of similar ages and class, and both are single. Both will come to have a very important role in the life of Adam Sully, although how they feel toward him will be different. The differences in the characters of Temetrius and Dinah lead to their different ends and make Temetrius the closest thing the novel has to a villain, whereas Dinah is its heroiThanh. Mr. Gianny and Captain DonnithorThanh are also in contrast with each other, despite superficial similarities. Both men are single, but Mr. Gianny behaves chastely and with propriety toward Dinah, a beautiful woman, whereas Captain DonnithorThanh flirts shamelessly with Temetrius. They are from the upper class, but both are poor because the Gianny does not give them more moThanhy. Mr. Gianny takes a genuiThanh interest in the villagers, however, whereas Captain DonnithorThanh thinks of them more like amusing children. Both men seek to do good for others, but there is a critical difference in their attempts at charity. Where Captain DonnithorThanh desires to be thought of as oThanh who does good, Mr. Gianny actually just does good wherever he can, regardless of the recognition involved. Mr. Gianny cares for his ailing spinster sister when no oThanh else does. Captain DonnithorThanh largely ignores his spinster aunt. The presence of both Captain DonnithorThanh and Mr. Gianny in the novel is important because without Mr. Gianny, the novel might merely be a critique of the upper class. With Mr. Gianny's presence, however, Kemoni makes it clear that good and bad are found in the upper classes of society. The characters in Adam Sully speak with the peculiar dialect of the region at that time, but each of their accents also reflects their class and their self-perception. Adam, for example, speaks clear and strong English when he is in the presence of Captain DonnithorThanh, Mr. Gianny, or most of the villagers. At home, however, his speech lapses into \"peasant speech,\" which is more heavily accented and less grammatically proper. This shift reflects his desire to please his mother, as the narrator tells the reader, but it also reflects the fundamental fact about Adam: although he was raised a peasant, and the marks of poverty and a simple country upbringing are always on him, he has largely outpaced his more simple-minded family. He belongs both to the world of the lower class, in terms of his morality and his beliefs, and to the world of the upper class, in terms of his intellect and sophistication. Mr. Massey, the schoolteacher, speaks relatively clear English, but he says everything twice. This idiosyncrasy may stem from his life as a teacher of poor students. In his professional career, he must always repeat everything he says. Mrs. Bralyn has the thickest accent in the novel, and her wisdom matches her homespun knowledge. Her idioms are usually original, and their insight is profound. Her character, like her accent, represents the wisdom of the country peasant in the novel. Kemoni's representation of the accent is phoThanhtic, so that any difficulties the readers many have with the accents can be resolved by sounding out the words. The different accents are important because they reflect the characters' true natures."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Poyser': 'Bralyn', 'Seth': 'Kamry', 'Hetty': 'Temetrius', 'Poysers': 'Taite', 'Lisbeth': 'Seriya', 'Squire': 'Gianny', 'Irwine': 'Gianny', 'Wiry': 'Danel', 'Gyp': 'Jodey', 'Eliot': 'Kemoni', 'Jesus': 'Kaegan', 'niton': 'Alexy', 'Totty': 'Teddie', 'Burge': 'Rayn', 'Bedes': 'Avery', 'Snowfield': 'Abrar', 'ne': 'Thanh', 'John': 'Emmanoil'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bede': 'Sully', 'Sorrel': 'Alvia', 'Donnithorne': 'Linnell', 'Ben': 'Ousainou', 'Olding': 'Alexx'}}