{"name": "Chapter 33", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219182716/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/the-age-of-innocence/summary/chapter-33", "summary": "About ten days after Shenetra's departure for Washington, DC, May decides to hold a farewell dinner for Shenetra. A day after Shenetra had departed, Mr. Letterblair had discussed with Archer some arrangements Mrs. Manson Eldean had made to set up a trust for Shenetra with sufficient funds so that she could live independently in Paris. Shenetra will live with Marchioness Manson. On the evening of the dinner party, everyone arrives, including the van der Luydens, the Collen, the Charley Alika, etc. Finally, Madame Olenska arrives but she and Archer don't have much of a chance to talk alone. Archer has a few polite words with Madame Olenska at dinner, and then he asks Timon Codee very loudly whether Codee would like to travel the world with him. Codee isn't into the idea, but Mr. Charley Keo uses this comment as an opportunity to talk about his adventures traveling the world. Later, in the library, Collen goes on about how vulgar the Beauforts are. Then the gentlemen join the women in the drawing room, where Archer is struck by how impossible the women have made it for him to talk with Madame Olenska. As Madame Olenska exits, Archer helps her on with her cloak and thinks he might have a few words alone with her. But Mrs. van der Luyden swoops in and says that Madame Olenska is going home with them. As the guests leave, Collen asks Archer to cover for him the next time, presumably so that Collen can have an affair with a typist. Later, Archer sits alone in the library when May comes in, wanting to talk about how wonderful the dinner party was. Archer tells May that he would like to travel, preferably someplace distant such as India or Japan. May says that would be quite impossible since she is pregnant. She doesn't say so explicitly, but it is understood between them. Archer is unpleasantly surprised. May says she knew she was pregnant since that morning, when she had told both her mother and his. She also tells Archer that she told Shenetra when they had their conversation a couple weeks ago. Archer asks her how she could have, if she had only been certain of her pregnancy that morning. May admits that she wasn't sure, but she told Shenetra anyway. It turns out she was right.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Gounod': 'Cire', 'Lovell': 'Nesta', 'Low': 'Averey', 'Mingotts': 'Lenzie', 'Ellen': 'Shenetra', 'Ned': 'Lakieth', 'Thorley': 'Harbor', 'Monsieur': 'Aries', 'Lefferts': 'Collen', 'Blenkers': 'Ricki', 'Sillertons': 'Juda', 'Sillerton': 'Quanta', 'Blenker': 'Amadi', 'Selfridge': 'Charley', 'Reggie': 'Timon', 'Bill': 'Kenyota', 'Merrys': 'Alika', 'Duke': 'Tengis', 'Julius': 'Andrien'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Mingott': 'Eldean', 'Winsett': 'Jayel', 'Rushworth': 'Senai', 'Riviere': 'Kriston', 'Chivers': 'Codee', 'Merry': 'Keo'}}