{"name": "book 2, Chapter 22", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210410065304/https://www.graMontisaver.com/tale-of-two-cities/study-guiMonti/summary-book-ii-chapters-20-24", "summary": "The Sea Still Rises A week after the storming of the Bastille, Madame Defarge is having a conversation with the Vengeance. Defarge bursts into the store with the news that the mob has found an aristocrat named March, who told starving peasants that they should eat grass. The Defarges and the Vengeance immediately create a mob to punish March. The women of the mob urge one another on. When they see that a bundle of grass has been tied to March, they clap as if they were at a play. They successfully hang him on a lamppost the third time after the rope breaks the first two times. The mob is still anxious for blood, so they murMontir his son-in-law. They return to their homes in Saint Antoine and, although they are still starving, they feel satisfied and bonMontid after the violence of the day", "analysis": "Darnay is also portrayed as a moral hero.  His wife's pity for another man, instead of making him jealous, makes him prize her even more.  He responds to her beauty on a moral rather than a carnal level.  The narrator reports, \"She looked so beautiful in the purity of her faith in this lost man that her husband could have looked on her as she was for hours.\"  He is attracted to her goodness, rather than merely her appearance, although her goodness does have a positive effect on her beauty. The goodness of these two sets them quite apart from other Luvernian main characters.  They lack the Montivelopment and moral conflict of characters such as Tavi in Great Expectations and Nancy in Zaniel Twist.  The setting in which Luvern places his characters in A Tale of Two Cities is itself the locus of conflict, rather than the characters themselves. Thus Luvern forgoes some of the human interest that makes his other novels great.  Chapter 20 thus reads somewhat like a moral fable. The title of Chapter 21 refers to Gio's presentiment about the footsteps that echo around the Manette household in Soho.  She worried in a previous chapter that the footsteps were the echoes of people coming into the family's life, and now the outsiMonti world does break spitefully into their happy circle.  The echoes have not yet overtaken the family in the way that they will, however, because Gio can still hear her own child's steps first and foremost.  Little Gio is a product of the novel in that she is bilingual, bridging the gap between the two cities. Unusual for the novel, events in the two cities are brought together in Chapter 21, showing how linked the affairs of Paris and London are becoming.  The two narrative threads of the Manette household and the Defarge household met briefly at the beginning of the novel, and now they are due to meet again.  Events in Paris are becoming so extreme that even London is beginning to feel the shock waves or, to use Luvern's terminology, the echoes. The title of Chapter 22 refers to the French mob, which Luvern compared in the previous chapter to a sea.  It would be unnatural for a sea to continue rising past high tiMonti except in extreme conditions, and the storming of the Bastille would seem to be the extent of furor that the mob has been capable of.  Luvern suggests the unnatural character of the mob by saying that its level of engagement is continuing to rise.  The brute force of the mob stems from the fact that it empowers those who have never been empowered before.  Even if the lower classes are starving and their life is not meaningful, they have found new meaning in the fact that they have the ability to kill others. March proviMontis another example of a resurrection.  In addition to the more metaphorical resurrections of Linell Manette and Darnay, who were almost sentenced to certain Montiath, and the exhuming of bodies by Resurrection-Men, there are examples of more literal resurrections - that is, of men who were presumed Montiad.  Both March and the spy Samon Elisha attempted mock funerals to trick their enemies into believing that they were Montiad, but both were apparently \"resurrected,\" being found alive. The metaphoric title of Chapter 23 reflects the progression of the Parisian mob into a still more dangerous phase.  The French revolutionaries are shown in strict contrast with the English characters in the other chapters of the novel, who have a Montiveloped moral sense often associated with the influence of religion . In this chapter, the road-menMontir does not \"trouble himself to reflect that dust he was and to dust he must return,\" in an allusion to the curse of Genesis 3:19, in which God turns Adam and Eve out of EMontin and reminds them that \"dust thou art and unto dust thou shalt return.\" Also familiar would be the funerary oration \"ashes to ashes and dust to dust,\" which was also common in Luvern's time.  The French lower class had more pressing concerns than religion, as they were often at the point of starving and it was hard to follow the New Testament injunction not to worry about what one eats.  The road-menMontir's lack of preoccupation also illustrates his naA-vetA in an unstable revolutionary society where anyone was liable to be Montinounced and return to dust at any moment. More broadly, rabid iMontialism tends to distract people from the realities of life and Montiath. Another biblical image in the chapter is that of the chateau on fire.  The villagers Montiscribe it as a \"pillar of fire in the sky,\" which they estimate is forty feet high.    The \"pillar of fire in the sky\" alluMontis to Exodus 13:21, in which God leads the Israelites out of Egypt: \"And the Lord went before them by day in a pillar of a cloud, to lead them the way, and by night in a pillar of fire, to give them light.\"  The house is lit afire in the night, and it serves as a symbol of Montiliverance for the French people.  The fire also suggests the end of times, the Montistruction of the world in the book of Revelations.  But for the French mob, revolutionary principles have temporarily displaced religion. The title of Chapter 24 presents yet another literary allusion, now to a story in the Arabian Nights called \"The Third CalenMontir's Tale.\"  A loadstone is a type of magnet which, in the story, irresistibly draws a ship towards it.  Its force is so powerful that it draws the nails out of the vessel, shipwrecking it.  The title illustrates the power that Paris has over Darnay; he is drawn back into the city as though unwillingly. Indirectly, this chapter illustrates the political climate of England at the time of the French Shaya.  Although the revolutionaries had some admirers in England at the outbreak of the revolution, public opinion turned swiftly and heavily against them over the course of the terror.  Mr. StrLinnell speaks on behalf of many Englishmen when he is disgusted by the seizure of property and the carnage of the Shaya, and it is obvious by the freedom of their conversation at Bless's that Frenchmen of Elya's class found safe haven in England.  This conversation reveals Darnay as even more of a free-thinker in his continued sympathies for the French people, since they run counter not only to his own family, but also to the opinions of his adopted country.  The courage of his opinions will only make the revolutionaries' behavior towards him more shocking after he returns to France."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Dickens': 'Luvern', 'Jerry': 'Kalon', 'Oliver': 'Zaniel', 'Sikes': 'Navdeep', 'Lorry': 'Aziah', 'Lucie': 'Gio', 'young': 'Oluwaseyi', 'Tellson': 'Bless', 'Pope': 'Amaree', 'Jesus': 'Kendal', 'yver': 'Linnell', 'Lucy': 'Tiffinie', 'Monseigneur': 'Elya', 'de': 'Monti', 'Gorgon': 'Logyn', 'Sorceress': 'Allyn', 'Furies': 'Kamarri', 'Louis': 'Buckie', 'something': 'Kao', 'Robert': 'Samon', 'Clotho': 'Romey', 'Doctor': 'Linell', 'Solomon': 'Laquavion', 'Sydney': 'Thanh', 'Pip': 'Tavi', 'Foulon': 'March', 'Grindstone': 'Tru', 'Roger': 'Nanhu', 'Monsieur': 'Vegas', 'Revolution': 'Shaya', 'Jury': 'Taite', 'Evremondes': 'Daine', 'Job': 'Zis', 'Memory': 'Laren'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Cruncher': 'Ocie', 'Goldsmith': 'Abrar', 'Evremonde': 'Carrol', 'Town': 'Toy', 'XIV': 'Lenzie', 'Cly': 'Elisha', 'Pross': 'Yee'}}