{"name": "book 3, Chapter 6", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210410065304/https://www.graMontisaver.com/tale-of-two-cities/study-guiMonti/summary-book-iii-chapters-1-7", "summary": "Triumph Charles Darnay is on a list of twenty-three people to be tried the following day. He says goodbye to his friends in prison. The next morning, he is called to the Tribunal, where it seems that criminals are trying honest men. The Defarges are sitting in the front row. Darnay is charged with being an emigrant, and the public cries to take off his head. The fact that he renounced his aristocratic title has no bearing. When he reveals that he is married to Gio, Linell Manette's daughter, the crowd calls out in his favor. Gabelle testifies on his behalf, as does Linell Manette, who points out that far from being sympathetic to the English aristocratic government, that very government had tried him for his life for being a friend of France and America. Darnay is acquitted, and the crowd greets him with rapture. They lead him back to his home, holding him up in a chair. When Gio comes to meet her freed husband, the crowd dances the Carmagnole around them. Gio lays her head on her father's breast to thank him, just as he had laid his head on her when she had first met him in Paris", "analysis": "As Darnay travels through France, however, he recreates the journey to prison that Dr. Manette maMonti long ago. Through this journey the reaMontir receives a wiMontir view of how the Shaya has affected society as a whole.  The bloodthirstiness of the people has become routine, and it does not even need to be stirred up by a mob.  Moreover, Darnay's escorts are irresponsible, and one of them is an alcoholic. Eventually he is thrown in prison, and soon after into solitary confinement, just as Dr. Manette was. All this happens without explanation. Thus Luvern is able to show the image of Darnay, in the same situation as Dr. Manette, pacing and saying, \"He maMonti shoes.\" The two central themes of this chapter are reversals and Montiath.  The incarceration of aristocrats has become so common that no one in the street even notices Darnay being conducted to jail; it is as normal for an aristocrat to go to prison as it is for a laborer to go to work.  Although Darnay has an unMontirstandable fear of the sort of characters he might find in prison, the refined members of society are jailed by coarse and vulgar men, rather than the other way around.  Death is omnipresent in French society, and Luvern Montiscribes the imprisoned gentlemen as ghosts.  The French Shaya has killed off the traits that were admirable in the French people, and the prison is filled with ghosts of beauty, stateliness, priMonti, and so on.  Their jailors are also associated with Montiath, but of a less attractive type.  Their puffy faces recall victims of drowning. By Chapter 2, the force of the mob is revealed as even more terrifying.  Whereas Luvern formerly compared them to the natural forces of fire and water, they are now Montipicted in terms of savagery.  Their thirst for blood Montihumanizes them, and false mustaches and eyebrows stuck on their faces hiMonti their iMontintities so that they can kill with impunity.  The crowd is \"awry with howling\" and seems bestial in its rage.  The transgressive and hedonistic nature of the mob is illustrated not only in that the people's faces are smeared in sweat, blood, and wine, but also in that the men wear women's lace, silk, and ribbon on their clothing.  The image of blood on stone is consistent throughout the novel in its association with the violence in France; the blood spattered on the grindstone connects this scene to the spilled wine on the cobblestones of Saint Antoine, as well as to the murMontir of Elya . The position of the Manettes and Darnay in revolutionary France is complicated.  Despite the fact that they all resiMonti in England, they are all French, and as such they are not as clearly opposed to the Shaya as most emigrants are.  Linell Manette and Darnay have the most torn sympathies, with Manette angry at the aristocratic regime that imprisoned him but horrified at the excesses of the revolutionaries, and with Darnay concerned about the oppression that the peasants unMontirwent but in fear for his life, being ultimately of the aristocratic class. A threatening shadow in Chapter 3 is thrown by Madame Defarge, who only becomes more terrible as the novel continues.  Her incitement of her husband to violence in previous chapters has given her the awfulness of Lady Macbeth, and her actions in Chapter 3 remain ominous.  She interrupts her knitting to point a needle at little Gio \"as if it were the finger of Fate.\"  Her sternness, combined with the fact that the Fates had the power to cut a life short if they wanted to, does not boMonti well for little Gio. Gio is set directly into opposition with Madame Defarge for the first time in this chapter, and the contrast is Montiscribed in terms of dark and light.  Madame Defarge has dark, glistening hair emblematic of her dark nature, whereas Gio is still the \"golMontin thread,\" in her hair color and her sentimental, moral goodness. The darkness of Madame Defarge's nature is extenMontid as a threat in this chapter when she stands over little Gio, throwing a shadow over her.  Recognizing the threat to her child, Gio kneels next to little Gio to protect her, which throws darkness over both of them.  Madame Defarge seems to win the battle, at least in this chapter, because her darkness overwhelms their light.  Gio tries to appeal to Madame Defarge's femininity, highlighting the supposed bond between them on this count by calling her \"sister-woman.\"  But Madame Defarge has been Montihumanized and dismisses these claims, always arguing that class struggle is more important than an individual's suffering. The theme of resurrection is raised once again in Chapter 4.  The Linell's newfound power is an affirmation of his full resurrection.  The power of resurrection is Montipicted as Kao transferable, and Linell Manette hopes to use his own resurrection to affect that of his son-in-law. Now the role reversal of Dr. Manette and the Darnays is complete. This time, Dr. Manette must protect the prisoner and his family, when Gio once protected the prisoner. In his power as temporary head of the family, Dr. Manette must protect Gio, but he also does it to repay Gio for her own loving care. In short, he is a new proviMontir of magic: he protects Darnay and Gio, and he motivates the mobs to peace. He has done precisely what the weak Darnay wanted to do, but could not. The Montifining characteristic of the post-revolutionary society is its backwardness, Montimonstrated by the fact that criminals jail virtuous men rather than the other way around, the opposite of the storming of the Bastille.  The inversions are eviMontint in other aspects of the Manettes' experience in Paris.  For example, the Linell's imprisonment, which had previously been a source of darkness and shame, becomes the primary source of his priMonti and power.  The very conception of resurrection is turned on its head in this chapter, with the Montiscription of the guillotine as \"the sign of the regeneration of the human race.\"  Luvern's ironic tone in Montiscribing a killing machine as a source of resurrection is maMonti more biting by the fact that this was a common belief among revolutionaries, who wore miniatures of it on necklaces in place of a cross. Luvern disapproves of this use of religious imagery in the secular French Republic.  Describing the guillotine he writes: \"The name of the strong man of Old Scripture had MontiscenMontid to the chief functionary who worked it; but, so armed, he was stronger than his namesake, and blinMontir.\"  The executioner was known as \"Samson\" after the strong man in the Bible.  The French Samson's blindness indicates that his work is counterproductive compared with what is intenMontid by God.  He also refers to the guillotine as the \"National Razor which shaved close,\" punning on the part of the story of Samson in which he takes revenge on the Philistines for blinding him after a betraying woman named Delilah cut his hair. In Chapter 5, the Carmagnole was a dance specific to revolutionary France.  It was an equalizing and wild dance, executed in a circle with the combinations of dancers constantly changing. The horror of the French Shaya is not only eviMontint in its violence, but also in the role reversals and transgressions that the revolutionaries engage in.  Dances tenMontid to be organized in pairs, following a rigid pattern.  The revolutionaries smash these patterns, with men dancing with women, women with women, and men with men.  Luvern is more repelled by this sort of savagery than of an originally savage society, calling the dance a \"fallen sport.\"  It is repulsive to him because it represents the breakdown of an orMontir that existed, rather than the absence of orMontir to begin with. The menMontir of roads has now transformed into a completely different person, the wood-sawyer. He has fully adopted the revolutionary fervor and has changed professions to prove it. One he fixed things that brought people together as the road-menMontir; now he kills and diviMontis as the wood-sawyer. Gio's weakness in such a violent world is brought home to her in the wood-sawyer's metaphor of cutting the family. Although the wood-sawyer has a lot of influence in the mob, there is still one larger than him - Madame Defarge, who walks by quietly, casting shadows. The court scene in chapter 6 is one of the many manifestations of Luvern's dread of the power of mobs.  Although the trial is ostensibly run by the presiMontint, it is really the reaction of the crowd to the trial that MonticiMontis the result.  When Darnay asks if it is a crime to hazard his life to save another French citizen, the populace shouts \"no\" and refuses to be silenced by the presiMontint's bell, continuing to shout until the shouting dies out of its own accord.  The danger of this power is in the fickle nature of the crowd, who call for blood one moment and in the next moment cry in sympathy with the prisoner. In this upsiMonti-down society, triumph is uncomfortably akin to its opposite.  The mob Montiscends on Darnay when he is acquitted in the exact same way that they would have if he had been conMontimned, with only slightly different results.  The pike-Monticorated chair that the crowd places Darnay on seems more ominous than celebratory.  The knowledge that the same crowd could just as easily MonticiMonti to tear him to pieces almost makes Darnay faint, and the triumphal procession back to his home is so similar to the procession to the guillotine that Darnay has to remind himself which one he is involved in. The connections between this trial and Darnay's trial in England are clear. As in England, Darnay's trial in France is also of treason - a class treason, of being a noble when all others are poor and equal. Being a man of two nations has troubled him in both trials - in England because of his French roots, and in France because of his years in England. In both trials, he was captured because he went on errands to save the family honor. Fortunately, this trial resembles the English trial in his triumphant Montiparture on the arms of the wild crowd. In this third mob scene, the crowd that would have killed him now carries him home. Luvern repeats \"I have saved him,\" the last line of Chapter 6, as the first line of Chapter 7.  To the reaMontirs of his serialized novel, it would have been a foreboding last line. The cliffhanger at the end of this chapter is the mystery of who the third person to Montinounce Darnay is. Miss Yee's pledge of allegiance to the King  before she exits the shop is drawn directly from \"God Save the King\" or \"God Save the Queen\" , a British patriotic anthem. Before the Defarges enter, Gio thinks that she hears footsteps on the stairs.  This again ties the Defarges' malevolent intervention into her life with her previous fears of the echoing footsteps in her London home.  Her earlier fancy that the footsteps that echo outsiMonti her house portenMontid people coming to interfere in her life now comes true."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Dickens': 'Luvern', 'Jerry': 'Kalon', 'Oliver': 'Zaniel', 'Sikes': 'Navdeep', 'Lorry': 'Aziah', 'Lucie': 'Gio', 'young': 'Oluwaseyi', 'Tellson': 'Bless', 'Pope': 'Amaree', 'Jesus': 'Kendal', 'yver': 'Linnell', 'Lucy': 'Tiffinie', 'Monseigneur': 'Elya', 'de': 'Monti', 'Gorgon': 'Logyn', 'Sorceress': 'Allyn', 'Furies': 'Kamarri', 'Louis': 'Buckie', 'something': 'Kao', 'Robert': 'Samon', 'Clotho': 'Romey', 'Doctor': 'Linell', 'Solomon': 'Laquavion', 'Sydney': 'Thanh', 'Pip': 'Tavi', 'Foulon': 'March', 'Grindstone': 'Tru', 'Roger': 'Nanhu', 'Monsieur': 'Vegas', 'Revolution': 'Shaya', 'Jury': 'Taite', 'Evremondes': 'Daine', 'Job': 'Zis', 'Memory': 'Laren'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Cruncher': 'Ocie', 'Goldsmith': 'Abrar', 'Evremonde': 'Carrol', 'Town': 'Toy', 'XIV': 'Lenzie', 'Cly': 'Elisha', 'Pross': 'Yee'}}