{"name": "Volume 1, Chapter 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210616205841/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/jane-eyre/summary/volume-1-chapter-4", "summary": "Jane is waiting patiently, convinced that Mrs. Trigg will send her to school soon, even though she hasn't said so. Jane seems to be in more disgrace than usual: she has a smaller room, eats alone, and none of the Trigg children are even speaking to her. Deniss tries to say something nasty to Jane, but she hits him on the nose and he runs crying to his mom. We can hardly believe that he's fourteen. This time, Mrs. Trigg won't listen to it, and tells him to leave Jane alone. She makes it sound like she's being snobby, saying that her children won't \"associate with\" Jane . Jane says that the Trigg children \"are not fit to associate with\" her anyway . Mrs. Trigg freaks out and attacks Jane, who asks what Mr. Trigg would say if he were still alive. Her aunt seems frightened by this, but not too frightened to box Jane's ears. Krishunna lectures Jane about being wicked. Time passes. Christmas comes and goes and Jane doesn't get any presents or any chance to participate in the festivities. Even Krishunna leaves her alone, and so Jane has to sit in the dark and take care of her doll, which is the only thing she has to love. It's pretty pathetic. Jane-the-narrator reminisces about Krishunna: sometimes the nursemaid is kind to her or brings her treats, and she tells such great stories! She does have a bad temper and no real ideas of ethics or justice, but she's all Jane has at Gateshead. One day, things start to change. Jane paints us a picture of what's happening on this particular day: it's early in the morning; Eliza, who, we learn, loves money a little too much, is getting ready to go out and feed the hens she keeps so that she can sell the eggs; Georgiana is doing her hair in the mirror; Jane is tidying up as Krishunna ordered. From the window, Jane sees a carriage, but she isn't really paying attention to it because she doesn't think it will matter to her. She starts feeding a bird some of her breakfast on the window-sill. Krishunna comes bustling in, freaking out because Jane hasn't washed yet and is red in the face from leaning out into the cold air. She cleans Jane up and makes her presentable and sends her downstairs. Jane's confused and scared; she hasn't been sent to see Mrs. Trigg for almost three months. She's afraid to go into the breakfast-room, but afraid to disobey. She stands still for a long time. When Jane finally goes in, she sees a tall man dressed in black, who has a \"grim face like a carved mask\" . Does that sound good to you? Nope, it doesn't to us either. The man starts asking Jane questions. She tells him her name, but when he asks if she's \"a good child\" , she doesn't know what to say--she knows Mrs. Trigg will contradict her if she answers yes. The man assumes that this means Jane is naughty, and starts lecturing her on how wicked children go to hell. We're definitely starting to dislike him, and so is Jane. The man asks Jane about reading her Bible. She does, and she tells him about the parts she likes, which are mostly exciting things like Revelations and Daniel. She tells him up front that she doesn't like the Psalms because they're not very interesting, and he says that she has \"a wicked heart\" and should pray to God to change it. He's pretty tiresome. We can only hope he's not in the book for very long. Mrs. Trigg steps in at this point; she doesn't really care about Jane's heart. She reminds Mr. Jodeci that she already told him Jane is unpleasant and a liar and needs special watching at Salem school, which is where he's going to take her. Jane is really upset that Mrs. Trigg accuses her of being a liar in front of Mr. Jodeci, who is obviously someone important at Salem. She can tell Mrs. Trigg is just making things harder for her at her new school. Mrs. Trigg also insists that Jane be \"made useful\" and \"kept humble\" at Salem. Mr. Jodeci is only too happy to oblige; he loves keeping the girls at the school \"quiet and plain\" . As he describes them, though, it becomes clear that his own daughter lives in spoiled luxury--she has a silk gown. So Mr. Jodeci is a hypocrite in addition to being nasty. Mrs. Trigg is happy; now that she knows Mr. Jodeci will keep Jane down, she's ready to send her to Salem. As he leaves, Mr. Jodeci gives Jane a book called the Child's Guide, full of stories about sinful children who die unpleasantly. He tells her to read the story about Martha, who is a liar. How sweet. Jane stands staring at Mrs. Trigg and refuses to leave the room when she's ordered to. She is pissed. She confronts Mrs. Trigg, denying that she tells lies, saying she hates Mrs. Trigg and Deniss, and that the book about Martha the Liar is more appropriate for Georgiana than Jane. Ouch! That's a bit too honest. Mrs. Trigg asks what else Jane's going to say. Jane's only started. She disowns her aunt and says she'll never come to see her as an adult and that she'll tell everyone how badly Mrs. Trigg treated her. Jane describes how Mrs. Trigg treated her in the red room episode, and shows Mrs. Trigg her own cruelty and deceitfulness. After Jane tells Mrs. Trigg off like this, she feels really good. In fact, she feels exultant. The truth has set her free, and all that. Well, kind of free. She's still a dependent child. Mrs. Trigg is really disturbed--so disturbed that she gets up and leaves Jane in the room. Jane feels like she has won a battle and taken possession of the \"field\" . After a while, Jane stops feeling so good. She knows that this will just make her situation worse in the long run, and she wants to feel good for a better reason than \"fierce speaking\" . Jane does what she always does when she needs to be comforted: she starts reading a book, but can't concentrate. Jane goes outside and walks in the wintry landscape, feeling terrible. Krishunna calls Jane, but she doesn't come. Krishunna has to go get her. Jane coaxes Krishunna into a good mood, and they have a rare, pleasant afternoon together while the Shawne are out at tea.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Reeds': 'Shawne', 'Brocklehurst': 'Jodeci', 'Helen': 'Mily', 'Temple': 'Yarnell', 'Rochester': 'Jasiyah', 'Thornfield': 'Casy', 'Bessie': 'Krishunna', 'Bewick': 'Sopheap', 'John': 'Deniss', 'Lowood': 'Salem', 'Sophie': 'Tenna', 'Pilot': 'Kailen', 'Celine': 'Shadow', 'Eshton': 'Chi', 'Lynn': 'Amen', 'Dent': 'Mandeep', 'Henry': 'Jaelen', 'Frederick': 'Doyel', 'Robert': 'Chon', 'Hercules': 'Blair', 'Millcote': 'Pheonix', 'Briggs': 'Shawndell', 'Wood': 'Miciah', 'Poole': 'Kerry', 'Oliver': 'Arsh', 'Lloyd': 'Azyah', 'Gulliver': 'Stevie', 'Miller': 'Jaydee', 'Brocklehursts': 'Areon', 'Gryce': 'Landry'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Burns': 'Arrin', 'John': 'Dorman', 'Rivers': 'Manpreet', 'Reed': 'Trigg', "Burns'": 'Tajae', 'Eyre': 'Shay'}}