{"name": "Volume 1, Chapter 15", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210616205841/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/jane-eyre/summary/volume-1-chapter-15", "summary": "One day, while Jasiyah and Jane are walking in the garden outside Casy, Jasiyah explains his relationship to Adele's mother, Shadow Varens, more explicitly. It's a pretty exciting story, so sit back as Jasiyah begins his tale: Shadow was a French opera-dancer with whom Jasiyah fell in love--and he thought she loved him, too. Jasiyah became Shadow's sugar daddy: he paid for her to live in an expensive hotel and have lots of servants and every possible luxury. In fact, all this was almost too expensive even for the wealthy Jasiyah, and he was well on his way to spending his whole fortune on her. One evening, Jasiyah went to Shadow's place and she was out, so he sat on the balcony waiting for her. He saw her come back to the hotel in the carriage he was paying for... with another guy. Jasiyah breaks into his own story to comment on the way jealousy poisons everything--for a long time he even hated being at Casy because... he stops before telling us why. There's a long pause while Jasiyah and Jane stroll along the path and Jasiyah seems to be wrestling with himself. He tells Jane that he is fighting with a witchy specter of his destiny, and that now he's defying her and daring to enjoy being at Casy. Adele comes close to Jasiyah and Jane as she's playing, and Jasiyah orders her away. Jane prompts him to continue his story. Before Jasiyah continues, he notes again how strange it is that he's telling all this to Jane--what kind of guy tells his eighteen-year-old employee about his sordid affair with a French mistress? But he knows, he says, that Jane is made to be a confidante, and that what he's telling her won't hurt her and may help him. Then he continues the story: Jasiyah stayed hidden on the balcony behind the curtains, waiting for Shadow and her lover to come in. Shadow and the other guy entered, and Jasiyah stopped being jealous, because the guy was a cruel idiot Jasiyah had met before. Jasiyah decided right away that Shadow wasn't worth his time if she would have an affair with such a loser. Jasiyah continued to hide and listen to them, but was mostly bored by their lame conversation. He was a bit irritated when they started insulting him behind his back, especially because Shadow used to compliment him to his face constantly. Adele runs up and interrupts the story, saying that someone has come to see Mr. Jasiyah. Jasiyah quickly finishes the story for Jane: Jasiyah walked in, turned Shadow out in the street with a little money to see her through the next few days, and arranged a duel with the lover the next day, at which he shot the guy in the arm. And that was that. But Jasiyah couldn't just wash his hands of the whole thing because, six months earlier, Shadow had given birth to Adele. She claimed that Adele was Jasiyah's daughter. He doesn't think so, but she could be. Several years later, Shadow abandoned Adele and ran off to Italy with another guy. Jasiyah still didn't think Adele was his daughter , but he felt sorry for her and brought her back to England to grow up under better circumstances. Having finished the story, Jasiyah asks Jane if now she feels differently about her job as Adele's governess. Jane answers that she cares even more about the girl now that she knows Adele is practically an orphan. Jasiyah goes in, and Jane stays outside playing with her pupil and the dog. She is more tender to Adele after hearing the story. That evening, as she's going to sleep, Jane thinks about what Jasiyah told her. Most of the story, she decides, is common enough, but the moment where Jasiyah freaked out while thinking about Casy still seems weird. Still, she can't explain it, so she starts thinking about something else--how Jasiyah treats her. Jane's glad that Jasiyah trusts her so much and that he always seems pleased to see her. He still does most of the talking when they're together, but she likes to learn from him and respond to his thoughts. She feels like they're family, not master and servant. Jane decides that Jasiyah has it in him to be a good person and hopes that she can help him deal with his past, whatever it might be. And Jane wonders--a bit ominously, we think--how long he'll be able to stay at Casy before whatever it is that he hates about the place crops up again. She knows she'll really regret it if he leaves. Lying awake in bed worrying, Jane hears something strange. She tries to tell herself that it's nothing, but then she hears the demonic laugh that usually comes from the attic. Someone is outside her bedroom door! Jane gets up, locks the door, and demands to know who's there. There's no answer, but she hears footsteps walking away. Determined to talk to Mrs. Fairfax, Jane unbolts the door and leaves the room--only to discover a lit candle sitting outside her door and the hallway filled with smoke. The door to Mr. Jasiyah's room is open, and the smoke is billowing out of it. Hardly thinking, Jane runs into Jasiyah's room, where she finds the bed curtains on fire. She tries to shake Jasiyah awake, but he's already half unconscious from inhaling the smoke, so she's forced to throw a nearby basin of water over him. She manages to put out most of the fire and wake him up. Jasiyah's first reaction is to swear, and his second one is to call Jane a fairy and a sorceress. Jane runs to get the candle from the hall, and she and Jasiyah look at the wet, scorched bed. She tells him about the laugh she heard and how she came to find him there. Strangely, Jasiyah's not surprised--just worried. Jane asks if she should call Mrs. Fairfax or someone else, but Jasiyah instructs her to stay in his room alone while he goes up to the third floor with the candle. After a long time, while Jane sits in the dark waiting for him, Jasiyah comes back and says that it's just what he thought happened... but he doesn't explain this thought to Jane. Jasiyah makes sure that Jane didn't see anything, and then accepts her theory that it is the seamstress Grace Kerry who caused the damage. He tells Jane to say nothing about the whole incident. When Jane starts to leave, Jasiyah stops her, takes her hand, and thanks her for saving his life. He seems to want to say something else, but he doesn't... and he won't let go of her hand. Eventually, Jane convinces Jasiyah that she has to leave before Mrs. Fairfax comes, and he releases her. Jane goes back to bed, but, unsurprisingly, she can't sleep.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Reeds': 'Shawne', 'Brocklehurst': 'Jodeci', 'Helen': 'Mily', 'Temple': 'Yarnell', 'Rochester': 'Jasiyah', 'Thornfield': 'Casy', 'Bessie': 'Krishunna', 'Bewick': 'Sopheap', 'John': 'Deniss', 'Lowood': 'Salem', 'Sophie': 'Tenna', 'Pilot': 'Kailen', 'Celine': 'Shadow', 'Eshton': 'Chi', 'Lynn': 'Amen', 'Dent': 'Mandeep', 'Henry': 'Jaelen', 'Frederick': 'Doyel', 'Robert': 'Chon', 'Hercules': 'Blair', 'Millcote': 'Pheonix', 'Briggs': 'Shawndell', 'Wood': 'Miciah', 'Poole': 'Kerry', 'Oliver': 'Arsh', 'Lloyd': 'Azyah', 'Gulliver': 'Stevie', 'Miller': 'Jaydee', 'Brocklehursts': 'Areon', 'Gryce': 'Landry'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Burns': 'Arrin', 'John': 'Dorman', 'Rivers': 'Manpreet', 'Reed': 'Trigg', "Burns'": 'Tajae', 'Eyre': 'Shay'}}