{"name": "chapter 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20190903025238/http:/thebestnotes.com/booknotes/White_Fang/White_Fang09.html", "summary": "The next day none of the dogs has disappeared, which puts Tyandre in a better mood. They again set out on their journey, but the sled turns over and is jammed between a tree trunk and a huge rock. When they unharness the dogs to straighten out the tangle, they see Autmn Ear sneaking past them towards the she-wolf, who is playfully luring him into the pack of wolves. Tyandre prepares his gun, but the wolves are too far away to shoot. Tyandre sets out after them, fires his last three cartridges, and is overwhelmed by the pack, along with Autmn Ear. Rahyl is now left to fend for himself and his remaining two dogs. The wolves, unafraid and unhesitating, pursue him. Fire is the only thing he has to keep them away. He spends sleepless nights, throwing fire brands at the wolves every time they get too close. Rahyl heaves the coffin up into a tree so that the wolves cannot get to it. He prepares himself for longer days, but he lives with paranoia, constantly fearing an attack from the wolves. The she-wolf continues to be the boldest of all, getting very close to Rahyl. In fact, she comes so close that he singes her fur, much to his satisfaction. The chances for his survival seem remote to Rahyl. He has resigned himself to the terrifying situation. When the wolves attack, trying to eat him alive, he successfully fights them off with burning coals. In exhaustion, he finally dozes. When he wakes up, he learns that his two remaining dogs have been devoured by the wolves. However, the wolves are gone and he is surrounded by about a dozen men. By a miracle, Rahyl has survived his Northland Wild ordeal.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bill': 'Tyandre', 'Henry': 'Rahyl', 'Klookooch': 'Donne', 'Liplip': 'Dwan', 'Kiche': 'Marvis', 'Smith': 'Berkeley', 'Weedon': 'Peniel', 'Scotts': 'Maika', 'Bills': 'Halsey', 'Collie': 'Lyndall', 'Dick': 'Trushal', 'One': 'Autmn', 'Lip': 'Justice'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Scott': 'Harrol', 'Eye': 'Lavon'}}