{"name": "Book 3, Chapter 7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210624192823/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/return-of-native/summary/book-3-chapter-7", "summary": "It's the day of the wedding and Mrs. Danel is wandering around her house by herself, being super emo. She hears the church bells ringing in the distance and knows that Robbie is married. She reacts to this like the apocalypse is imminent. Then Han stops by. This is the worst day ever for Mrs. Danel. Han says he's here to pick up a package for Thomasin. He's referring to the inheritance money that Mrs. Danel planned to give Thomasin that day. Thomasin attended Robbie and Eustacia's wedding instead of coming over to see her aunt. Mrs. Danel tells Han the package isn't important and she can just give it to Thomasin later. Han is suspicious, but says OK. He leaves and Mrs. Danel tries to figure out how to get the money to her niece, who needs it ASAP. While pondering this, Mrs. Danel decides to give her son his inheritance as a wedding gift. So she gets Christian Cantle to deliver the money directly to Thomasin and her son. Christian says sure and he heads out in the dark with two bags filled with money. We hope there aren't muggers lurking about the heath... Christian runs into Fairway and some other guys, who are heading over to a raffle . Christian gets peer pressured into going and he ends up gambling with the others at the Quiet Woman Inn. This probably won't end well. But Christian actually wins some money. Han chats with Christian, who hints that he has a special delivery of major cash for Thomasin. Christian heads off with his bags of money and Han follows him. Han tries to convince Christian to give him the money. Christian won't because of Mrs. Danel's instructions. Then Han convinces Christian to gamble some more since he was so lucky earlier. Han tells Christian all sorts of great stories about people winning tons of money by gambling. Dim-witted as he is, Christian falls for this super obvious manipulation. The two gamble and Damon wins all of the money from Christian, who stupidly started using the Seneca' money to keep playing. Christian is horrified and runs off and Damon just laughs. But then Rielly appears. The plot thickens.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Clym': 'Robbie', 'Wildeve': 'Han', 'Humphrey': 'Ryner', 'Yeobrights': 'Seneca', 'Rudolph': 'Jawara', 'Vyes': 'Dilyn', 'Vye': 'Latrelle', 'Wildeve\\': 'Kaydyn', 'Egdon': 'Jae', 'Nosey': 'Peyson', 'Diggory': 'Rielly', 'Clym\\': 'Wallis', 'Olly': 'Jeryl', 'Johnny': 'Ayad', 'Wildeves': 'Demarie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Venn': 'Britt', 'Yeobright': 'Danel', 'Diggory': 'Oakley', 'Dowden': 'Raylen', 'Nunsuch': 'Tonnie'}}