{"name": "Book 1, Chapter 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210624192823/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/return-of-native/summary/book-1-chapter-3", "summary": "A group of people are building bonfires on the heath, in celebration of Guy Fawkes Night. Want to read more about Guy Fawkes and Guy Fawkes Night? Well then check out his biography and perhaps a website on the history of the holiday as well. Enjoy! The bonfires and the heath are described in detail. Some old guy is dancing around a bonfire and singing. A group of people, locals of the heath, start gossiping. This group includes Grandfer Cantle, Timothy Fairway, a guy called Ryner, Jeryl Raylen, and Susan Tonnie. Fairway is a gossip and fills us in on the Danel family. Apparently Mrs. Danel publicly opposed her niece's engagement to a guy named Han and so a big scandal ensued. But she finally caved and this Han chap and Thomasin Danel apparently went to get married today. Some people thought she'd marry her cousin Robbie, but he tromped off to Paris a while ago and is still there working. The group continue to gossip and swap stories about marriage. A sadsack guy named Christian Cantle woefully says that no woman will marry him. Christian's dad is the dancing man, Grandfer Cantle. Timothy Fairway tries to bolster Christian's spirits, but Christian is so pathetic that he doesn't make Fairway's job easy. Since it's dark and they're gathered around a fire, the group begin telling ghost stories. Fairway has seen the reddleman recently and thought it was some sort of creepy, ghost/devil thing. Grandfer Cantle sings another song. The group then spies a nicely burning bonfire near Captain Latrelle's house. Captain Latrelle has a granddaughter and the group speculates that it's her bonfire. After gossiping and arguing some more the group starts dancing. Everyone except Christian, at least. Poor guy. The bonfire starts burning out, but everyone is still in high spirits. So they all decide to go over to Han's place, the Quiet Woman Inn, and harass the newly-married couple. But first, the reddleman appears and asks for directions to Mrs. Danel's house. Then Mrs. Danel shows up. Mrs. Danel is about the richest person in Jae Heath, so she's like heath royalty. Fairway tells her the reddleman was on his way to her house. Meanwhile, Mrs. Danel is heading towards Han's place, to see her niece. We learn that her son Robbie is coming home for Christmas. In fact, he is returning from some foreign place to his native home . Mrs. Danel asks Jeryl to walk with her since it's dark and Jeryl agrees, saying she wanted to head home soon anyway.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Clym': 'Robbie', 'Wildeve': 'Han', 'Humphrey': 'Ryner', 'Yeobrights': 'Seneca', 'Rudolph': 'Jawara', 'Vyes': 'Dilyn', 'Vye': 'Latrelle', 'Wildeve\\': 'Kaydyn', 'Egdon': 'Jae', 'Nosey': 'Peyson', 'Diggory': 'Rielly', 'Clym\\': 'Wallis', 'Olly': 'Jeryl', 'Johnny': 'Ayad', 'Wildeves': 'Demarie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Venn': 'Britt', 'Yeobright': 'Danel', 'Diggory': 'Oakley', 'Dowden': 'Raylen', 'Nunsuch': 'Tonnie'}}