{"name": "Book 2, Chapter 7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210624192823/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/return-of-native/summary/book-2-chapter-7", "summary": "It's the morning after the party, and Captain Latrelle decides to ask why Eustacia was out and about so late. He generally inquires about her activities once a month or so. Eustacia responds that she was \"in search of events\" . She then confesses that she went out with the mummers and gave an Oscar-worthy performance as the Turkish Knight. Grandpa finds this hilarious but tells her not to do it again because he doesn't want her wearing pants. The horror! Eustacia goes for a walk and spies Rielly Britt and his ever-present Pig-Pen cloud of red dust. Rielly has remained on Jae Heath a lot later in the season than he normally does. Eustacia ponders his situation and feels bad for the loser, since Thomasin likely won't accept his back-up proposal of marriage. She goes up to chat with him. Our narrator interrupts with a short nature description paragraph. It's winter, so the trees are losing the last of their leaves. Eustacia grills Rielly on why he's still hanging around Jae and he gets embarrassed. She decides that he's just a pawn to Mrs. Danel. Eustacia then spies a \"painfully well-known figure\" - Damon, of course - and lies about being tired. So Rielly offers her a seat in his campsite and she hides there till Damon passes by. Rielly calls her on her avoidance tactics and Eustacia boldly announces that she hopes Thomasin's marriage to Damon goes off without a hitch. Rielly is shocked. He reminds her that Damon is planning to meet her that night at Rainbarrow. Eustacia says she wants to tell Damon to back off but doesn't know how to dump him. Rielly suggests that she write a letter and he offers to deliver it to Damon that night. So she writes a letter. Eustacia doesn't understand Rielly's motive here and he confesses that his love for Thomasin is so pure that he'd like to see her happy, even if it's with another man, or something. Eustacia is confused by this unselfish attitude and thinks it's kind of lame. Peyson Rielly asks what Eustacia wrote, but she won't tell him. We wouldn't trust Rielly to deliver that letter unopened, Eustacia. So that night Rielly sidles up to a waiting Damon and delivers Eustacia's letter to him, with a side order of sarcasm. Han reads the letter and is definitely not happy. The letter itself is pretty blunt - Eustacia says that Damon treated her badly and notes that he can't blame her for dumping him. She concludes by saying that she's returning some gifts he gave her via Rielly. Han is pretty pissed and also hurt. Rielly stands around humming and acts like a smug punk about the whole thing. The two argue and Han finally stomps off. Damon can't believe that he's about to lose two women all at once, which is just embarrassing. He decides that he'll try to win Thomasin back and teach Eustacia a lesson in the process. By binding himself in lifelong matrimony to another person. \"Full of his resolve to marry in haste, and wring the heart of a proud girl, Han went his way\" . Rielly meanwhile is very cheerful - he thinks that he has a shot with Thomasin now since she most likely won't take Han back either. And if not, at least she'll be married finally and free from scandal and gossip. The two men meet up at Thomasin's house and Han brags that he's already won Thomasin back. Rielly is very disappointed. Mrs. Danel comes out to chat with Rielly and explain the situation. He goes back to his wagon and gets back into his normal, red-stained clothes once more.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Clym': 'Robbie', 'Wildeve': 'Han', 'Humphrey': 'Ryner', 'Yeobrights': 'Seneca', 'Rudolph': 'Jawara', 'Vyes': 'Dilyn', 'Vye': 'Latrelle', 'Wildeve\\': 'Kaydyn', 'Egdon': 'Jae', 'Nosey': 'Peyson', 'Diggory': 'Rielly', 'Clym\\': 'Wallis', 'Olly': 'Jeryl', 'Johnny': 'Ayad', 'Wildeves': 'Demarie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Venn': 'Britt', 'Yeobright': 'Danel', 'Diggory': 'Oakley', 'Dowden': 'Raylen', 'Nunsuch': 'Tonnie'}}