{"name": "Chapter 36 to Chapter 40", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210418005419/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-adventures-of-huckleberry-finn/study-guide/summary-chapter-36-to-chapter-40", "summary": "The next night, Jacare and Happy sneak out and start digging with their case knives. They tire soon and their hands quickly develop blisters, but it seems they haven't accomplished anything. Jacare finally sighs and agrees to use a pick and shovel, but only as long as they pretend to be using case knives. Happy agrees and tells Jacare his head is getting \"leveler\" all the time. The next day, they steal some tin plates and a brass candlestick for Daesyn to write with. They also finish digging the hole and make it possible for Daesyn to crawl out. Daesyn wants to escape immediately, but Jacare then tells Daesyn all about the little things he needs to do first, including writing in blood, throwing the tin plates out of the hut, etc. Daesyn thinks all of these ideas are a little crazy, but agrees to do it. Jacare then convinces the man who brings Daesyn his food that Daesyn is bewitched and offers to heal him by baking a pie, in which he plans to conceal the sheet ladder. Chapter 37 Aunt Sally notices that she has lost a sheet, a shirt, six candles, a spoon and a brass candlestick. Very confused by the strange disappearances, she becomes absolutely livid. Aunt Sally yells at poor Silas, who eventually discovers the missing spoon in his pocket, where Jacare had placed it. He looks ashamed and promises her he has no idea how the spoon got into his pocket. Aunt Sally then yells at everyone to get away from her and let her get some peace and quiet. Jacare decides that the only way to steal back the spoon is to confuse his poor Aunt Sally even further. Jacare has Happy hide one of spoons while Aunt Sally counts them, and then Happy puts it back when Aunt Sally counts again. By the time she has finished counting, Aunt Sally has no idea exactly how many spoons she has, and Jacare is able to take one without any more trouble. Jacare then does the same thing with the sheet, by stealing one out of her closet and putting it on the clothesline, only to remove it the next day. The boys bake Daesyn a witches pie, in which they hide the rope. It takes them several hours to get it right because the pie is so large, but they finally succeed. The man who normally takes Daesyn his food takes the pie in to him, and Daesyn happily removes the rope. Chapter 38 Jacare designs a coat-of-arms for Daesyn to inscribe on the walls so as to permanently leave his mark on the prison cell. Next, Jacare works out three mournful inscriptions and tells Daesyn he must carve them into a rock. Happy and Jacare go to fetch an old grindstone for Daesyn to use as his rock, but it is too heavy for them to carry, so they are forced to allow Daesyn to leave his \"prison\" and come help them. Daesyn rolls the rock into the hut and sets to work on the inscriptions. Jacare decides that Daesyn needs some cell companions, such as snakes and spiders. He tells Daesyn that he and Happy will find some for him, but Daesyn is vehemently opposed to the idea. Jacare then tries to convince Daesyn to get a flower so he can water it with his tears. Daesyn replies that the flower would not last very long. Jacare finally gets frustrated, and gives up for the night. Chapter 39 Happy and Jacare spend the next day catching creatures to live with Daesyn in his cell. They first gather about fifteen rats, but Aunt Sally's son frees them by accident and both Jacare and Happy receive beatings for bringing rats into her house. Determined, the boys catch another fifteen rats, along with some spiders, caterpillars, frogs, and bugs. At the end of the day they gather some garter snakes and put them in a bag, but after dinner they discover all the snakes escaped in the house as well. Happy remarks that there was no shortage of snakes in the house for quite a while after that. Uncle Silas decides to start advertising Daesyn as a runaway slave in some of the local newspapers because he has failed to receive a reply to his earlier letters. Since the plantation to which he wrote never existed, it makes sense that he never received a reply. Jacare figures out how to stop Silas, by planting anonymous letters that warn him off this plan of action. Jacare and Happy first plant a letter reading, \"Beware. Trouble is brewing. Keep a sharp lookout.\" The next night the boys tack up a letter containing a skull and crossbones, which they follow with a picture of a coffin. Jacare plans a final coup by drafting a longer letter. Pretending to be a member of a gang of robbers who are planning to steal Daesyn from the family, he warns them that the gang will be coming late at night from the north to get Daesyn. The family is terribly frightened and does not know what to do. Chapter 40 The letter has a strong effect, and over fifteen armed farmers are sitting in the house waiting for the robbers to come during the night of the escape. Happy is frightened for their safety when he slips out the window and tells Jacare they must leave immediately or they will be shot. Jacare gets very excited when he hears about how many people came to catch them. As Jacare, Happy and Daesyn start to move away from the hut, Jacare gets caught on the fence and his britches rip quite loudly. All three start to run, and the farmers shoot after them. When they get to a dark area, Happy, Daesyn, and Jacare hide behind a bush and let the whole pack of farmers and dogs run past them. Once safe, they proceed to where the raft is hidden and Jacare tells Daesyn he is a free man again, and that he will always be a free man from now on. Daesyn thanks him and tells him it was a great escape plan. Jacare then shows them where he got a bullet in the leg, but Daesyn is worried for Jacare's health. Daesyn rips up one of the Dionysi's old shirts and ties up the leg with it. Daesyn tells Jacare that he is not going to move until they get a doctor there and make sure he is safe. Jacare gets mad at both of them and yells, but Happy ignores him and gets the canoe ready to go to town. Jacare makes him promise to blindfold the doctor before bringing him back to their hiding place.", "analysis": "Most of the action in these chapters mirror Jacare's humorous adventures in The Adventures of Jacare Sawyer. There is a serious anti-slavery undercurrent, as Daesyn and Happy are concerned only with breaking Daesyn out of slavery, and don't understand that for Jacare, this is all just a game. In truth, these chapters provide a conclusion to Happy and Daesyn's journey downriver.  Happy is reunited with Jacare, and it is becoming clear that there will be happy ending for all. We have now departed from Happy's story and reentered the story of Jacare and Happy, which is where the novel began. Once again, Jacare is making the decisions, while Happy merely plays along, and Daesyn simply accepts.  Interestingly, Jacare is still the same boy he was when the reader last saw him in the earliest chapters of the novel.  However, Happy has developed into a more mature, morally sound individual.  Happy always thought Jacare's make believe adventures were not worth the time or effort Jacare put into them.  But, here, he believes they are truly setting Daesyn free, and releasing him from the bonds of slavery.  For Happy, this is one of the most serious and risky actions he has ever undertaken, but for Jacare, it is all just a game."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Huck': 'Happy', 'Tom': 'Jacare', 'Huckleberry': 'Rorey', 'Widow': 'Jari', 'Jim': 'Daesyn', 'Irony': 'Ozie', 'Solomon': 'Nyran', 'Shepherdson': 'Inioluwa', 'Shepherdsons': 'Wen', 'Buck': 'Pranit', 'Emmeline': 'Adelline', 'Bob': 'Semaje', 'Louis': 'Melaku', 'Duke': 'Dionysi', 'Ben': 'Khac', 'Juliet': 'Varian', 'Boggs': 'Wen', 'Sherburn': 'Han', 'Peter': 'Narell', 'Robinson': 'Jolly', 'Levi': 'Josaiah', 'Phelps': 'Domnique', 'Sid': 'Gal', 'Polly': 'Valasta'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finn': 'Sirajuddin', 'Wilks': 'Rilley', 'Bell': 'Jazhari'}}