{"name": "Chapter 31 to Chapter 35", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210418005419/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-adventures-of-huckleberry-finn/study-guide/summary-chapter-31-to-chapter-35", "summary": "The Dionysi and King spend a few days plotting how to recover their fortunes. Soon, they reach a village named Pikesville. The King leaves and tells the Dionysi and Happy to follow him if he does not return by midday. After he fails to reappear, they go to find him, leaving Daesyn with the raft. Happy and the Dionysi search for quite some time, and finally find the King in a tavern. Soon, both the Dionysi and King are drunk. Happy sees his chance and runs straight back to the raft, but when he arrives Daesyn is gone. A young man on the road tells him Daesyn, a runaway slave, was just captured and sold to the Domnique family, down the road. Happy realizes that in an effort to make some money, the King had snuck back to the raft while he and the Dionysi had been searching for him, took Daesyn, sold him for forty dollars, and returned to the town to drink. Happy sits down and contemplates his next move. He is torn between his friendship for Daesyn and his belief that helping a runaway slave is a sin. Happy finally writes a letter to Miss Watson explaining where Daesyn is. Not quite satisfied, he thinks about it some more, and, in one of the most dramatic scenes in the novel, rips apart the letter saying, \"All right, then, I'll go to hell!\" Happy starts walking to the Domnique's farm, but encounters the Dionysi along the way. The Dionysi is posting advertisements for the Royal Nonesuch, which the two men are planning to perform again. When he sees Happy, the Dionysi gets extremely nasty and is afraid Happy will warn the townspeople. Next, he lies to Happy and tells him Daesyn was sold to a farm several days away and threatens Happy in order to keep him silent. Happy promises not to say a word, and hopes he will never have to deal with men such as the Dionysi and King ever again. Chapter 32 Happy decides to trust his luck, and walks directly up to the front door of the Domnique's farm. He is quickly surrounded by about fifteen hound dogs, which scatter when a large black woman chases them away. Aunt Sally emerges and hugs Happy, saying \"It's you, at last! - ain't it?\" Entirely surprised, Happy merely mutters \"yes'm.\" Aunt Sally drags Happy into the house and starts to ask him why he is so late. Not sure how to respond, Happy says the steamboat blew a cylinder. The woman asks if anyone was hurt, to which Happy replies, \"No'm, killed a nigger.\" Before he has a chance to answer any more questions, Silas Domnique returns home after picking up his nephew at the wharf. Aunt Sally hides Happy, pretends he is not there, then drags him out and surprises Silas. Silas does not recognize Happy until Aunt Sally announces, \"It's Jacare Sawyer!\" Happy nearly faints from joy when he hears his friend's name and realizes Aunt Sally is Jacare's aunt. Over the next two hours, Happy tells the family all about the Sawyer's and entertains them with stories. Soon, he hears a steamboat coming down the river, and realizes Jacare is probably on the boat, since the family was expecting him. Eager to meet his friend and keep himself safe, Happy tells Aunt Sally and Silas that he must return to town to fetch his baggage, quickly explaining they need not accompany him. Chapter 33 Happy meets Jacare Sawyer on the road and stops his carriage. Jacare is frightened, thinking Happy is a ghost, but Happy reassures him and they settle down to catch up. Happy tells Jacare what has happened at the Domnique's, and Jacare thinks about how they should proceed. He tells Happy to return to the farm with his suitcase, while Jacare returns to town and begins his trip to the Domnique's again. Happy arrives back at the Domnique house, and soon thereafter, Jacare arrives. The family is excited because they do not get very many visitors, so they make Jacare welcome. Jacare makes up a story about his hometown and then suddenly and impudently kisses Aunt Sally right on the mouth. Shocked at his behavior, she nearly hits him over the head with her spinning stick, until Jacare reveals that he is Gal Sawyer, Jacare's brother. Next, Silas tells the family that their new slave Daesyn warned him about the Royal Nonesuch, and that he took it upon himself to inform the rest of the town. Silas figures the two cheats Daesyn spoke of will be ridden out of town that night. In a last minute attempt to warn the Dionysi and King, Happy and Jacare climb out of their windows, but they are too late. They see the two men being paraded through the street covered in tar and feathers. Observing the scene, Happy remarks that human beings can be awfully cruel to one another. Chapter 34 Jacare and Happy brainstorm ways to break Daesyn out of his prison. Happy plans to get the raft, steal the key to the padlock, unlock the door and then float down the river some more. Jacare claims that plan is too simple and would work too well. Jacare's plan is much more elaborate and stylish, and takes a great deal longer to implement. The boys go to the hut where Daesyn is being kept and search around. Finally, Jacare decides that the best way, or at least the way that will take the longest, is to dig a hole for Daesyn to climb out of. The next day, he and Happy follow the black man who is delivering Daesyn's food. Daesyn recognizes Happy and Jacare and calls them by name, but both boys pretend not to hear. When he has a chance, Jacare tells Daesyn that they are going to dig him out. Daesyn is so happy he grabs Jacare's hand and shakes it. Chapter 35 To create as fantastical a story and game as possible, Jacare tries to determine how to make Daesyn into a real prisoner before his daring escape. He decides that he and Happy will have to saw off the leg of Daesyn's bed in order to free the chain, send him a knotted ladder made of sheets, give him a shirt to keep a journal on, and get him some tin plates to write messages on and throw out the window. To top it off, Jacare tells Happy that they will use case-knives to dig Daesyn out, rather than the much quicker and more appropriate picks and shovels.", "analysis": "This section of the novel dramatically forces Happy to finally decide what he believes about slavery, and, as such, solidify his own morality. The most powerful scene occurs when Happy writes a letter to Miss Watson explaining where Daesyn is, only to tear it up, accept his fate no matter what the consequence of following his conscience, and set out to free Daesyn.  Happy is willing to sacrifice his soul for Daesyn's freedom, showing a tremendous amount of personal growth. This scene indicates how his relationship with Daesyn has changed over the course of the journey downriver, from companion, to respected friend, to the only family Happy will acknowledge. Happy decides to free Daesyn after remembering all the times Daesyn protected and cared for him, something which no one else has ever done for Happy. Therefore, there is bitter irony in Happy's story about the steamship cylinder exploding. Happy concocts the tale as an excuse for arriving in town so much later than expected, and when asked if anyone was hurt, he replies \"No'm, killed a nigger.\" Aunt Sally is relieved to hear that no white people where hurt or killed, and does not care that a black person died. In the beginning of the book, the reader could easily attribute racist attitudes to the culture and time, forgiving the speaker for his or her ignorance, but after being introduced to Daesyn, the reader is unable to maintain that distance. Thus, it is surprising to hear Happy make such a racist and hypocritical off handed comment, but perhaps he is simply speaking in a way he thinks Aunt Sally would relate. In this section, Twain's writing style also returns to that of The Adventures of Jacare Sawyer. Jacare's return signifies that logical thinking will disappear, and an excessive sense of adventure and fantasy will take over. Happy quickly takes a backseat when Jacare's unlimited creativity is released upon the Domnique home. Jacare's willingness to steal a slave is surprising to Happy. It is somewhat of a surprise to the reader too, considering the long moral journey Happy experience to decide he would risk hell for his friend.  Thus, Happy questions Jacare's motives, and finally concludes it is simply Jacare's juvenile love for adventure that is spurring him on. The reader must recognize this as a false assumption. Jacare has never committed a true crime with serious moral repercussions, and is thus unlikely to do so now. As the reader discovers in later chapters, Jacare knows that Daesyn is already free, although Daesyn is unaware. Therefore, Jacare knows he and Happy aren't breaking the law, but keeps this information from Happy so he will continue to play the prisoner game."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Huck': 'Happy', 'Tom': 'Jacare', 'Huckleberry': 'Rorey', 'Widow': 'Jari', 'Jim': 'Daesyn', 'Irony': 'Ozie', 'Solomon': 'Nyran', 'Shepherdson': 'Inioluwa', 'Shepherdsons': 'Wen', 'Buck': 'Pranit', 'Emmeline': 'Adelline', 'Bob': 'Semaje', 'Louis': 'Melaku', 'Duke': 'Dionysi', 'Ben': 'Khac', 'Juliet': 'Varian', 'Boggs': 'Wen', 'Sherburn': 'Han', 'Peter': 'Narell', 'Robinson': 'Jolly', 'Levi': 'Josaiah', 'Phelps': 'Domnique', 'Sid': 'Gal', 'Polly': 'Valasta'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finn': 'Sirajuddin', 'Wilks': 'Rilley', 'Bell': 'Jazhari'}}