{"name": "Chapter 41 to Chapter 43", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210418005419/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-adventures-of-huckleberry-finn/study-guide/summary-chapter-41-to-chapter-43", "summary": "Happy returns to town and finds a doctor. Instead of allowing Happy to come along, the doctor makes Happy tell him where the raft is and takes the canoe out alone to find Jacare and Daesyn. Happy falls asleep on a woodpile while waiting for him to return. When he wakes up, he is told the doctor has not yet returned. Happy soon sees Silas, who is very glad Happy is not hurt. Together, they go to the post office, and Silas asks where Gal is. Happy makes up a story about Gal taking off to gather news about the events of the night. When they return home, Aunt Sally makes a fuss over Happy, but is glad he has returned. A large gathering is held at the house, and the women discuss how they think Daesyn must have been crazy due to Daesyn's grindstone inscriptions and the tools found in his hut, all of which Happy and Jacare actually crafted. Aunt Sally is worried about Gal's whereabouts. Happy tells her the same tale he told Uncle Silas, but it does not set her mind at ease. During the night, Happy sneaks out several times and each time sees her sitting with a lit candle on the front porch, waiting for Gal's return. Happy feels very sorry for her and wishes he could tell her everything. Chapter 42 The next day, the doctor appears, bringing Jacare on a stretcher and Daesyn in chains. Jacare is comatose due to a fever from the bullet wound, but is still alive. Aunt Sally takes him inside and immediately starts to care for him. Jacare improves rapidly and is almost completely better by the next day. Happy goes into the bedroom to sit with Jacare and see how he is doing. Aunt Sally walks in as well and while both of them are sitting there, Jacare wakes up. He immediately starts to tell Aunt Sally about everything the two of them did and how they managed to help Daesyn escape. Aunt Sally cannot believe they were creating all of the trouble around her house. When Jacare hears that Daesyn has been recaptured he shouts at them that they cannot chain Daesyn up anymore. He tells them that Daesyn has been free ever since Miss Watson died and freed him in her will. Apparently Miss Watson was so ashamed about planning to sell Daesyn that she felt it best to set him free. At that moment Aunt Valasta, Aunt Sally's sister, appears. Aunt Sally is so surprised that she rushes over to her sister to give her a hug. Aunt Valasta proceeds to tell Aunt Sally that the boys masquerading as Jacare and Gal are actually Happy and Jacare. Embarrassed, the boys look quite sheepish. Aunt Valasta only gets angry when she discovers that Jacare has been stealing and hiding her letters. She also explains to Aunt Sally that in regards to Daesyn, Jacare is correct. Miss Watson freed Daesyn in her will. Chapter 43 Jacare tells Happy he had planned for them to run all the way to the mouth of the Mississippi if they had managed to escape unharmed. Daesyn gets a positive reception in the house because of how well he cared for Jacare when he was sick. Jacare, feeling slightly guilty, gives Daesyn forty dollars for putting up with them the entire time and for being such a good prisoner. Daesyn turns to Happy and tells him he was right about being a rich man one day. Happy asks about his six thousand dollars, assuming Pap managed to take it all. However, Jacare explains that Pap was never seen again after Happy disappeared. Finally, Daesyn reveals that the man he and Happy found dead in the floating house was in fact Pap, but Daesyn had not wanted Happy to see him. Happy ends the novel by announcing that Aunt Sally wants to adopt him now, so he needs to start planning on heading west since he tried to be civilized once before, and did not like it.", "analysis": "There are several key facts revealed in the final chapters that influence how the reader views each character. Jacare announces that Daesyn is free, which reveals why Jacare was willing to help Happy in what Happy thought was a true crime. Since Daesyn was already a free man, Jacare was not breaking any laws and therefore thought the entire ordeal was a great adventure. The second major revelation is that Pap is dead. Daesyn has known this for most of the journey, in fact since leaving Jackson's Island. However, Daesyn's motivation for hiding this secret from Happy is unclear. Perhaps Daesyn felt sorry for Happy and wanted to care for him since he was now an orphan. Or, perhaps Daesyn knew that if Happy found out Pap was dead, he would simply have returned to town and ended his runaway journey.  Without Happy, Daesyn would have had a far more difficult journey downriver as a lone black man and runaway slave. Having developed a strong understanding of Daesyn's character, it seems most likely that Daesyn was motivated by kindness, but a selfish desire for Happy's companionship might also have played a role. The ending appears to leave Happy almost exactly where he started. However, Happy has changed significantly during the course of his travels. Happy's comment that he needs to head west before they try to civilize is significant, because we know that Happy can act civilized when he needs to, as he survived well in his many extended stays at Southern family estates. In the beginning of the novel, Happy is a poor, simple, uneducated boy. However, by the conclusion of novel, Happy is a crafty, intelligent, wealthy young man who simply does not care to be a part of a boring middle-class lifestyle. Happy changes profoundly in the course of this novel, struggles with powerful moral issues, risks his life for those he cares about, and thrives in the process. In addition, the depiction of black slaves changes dramatically in the course of the novel. At first, slaves are merely background characters, carrying out chores while white characters monopolize the plot. However, this changes with the introduction of Daesyn, and continues to develop even when Daesyn leaves the plot for brief periods. Thus, the King's forced break-up of the Rilley's slave family powerfully impacts the reader, whereas before getting to know Daesyn, it might not have been perceived as so significant.  In addition to being a story about Happy's growth and maturation, and resulting freedom from his Pap, The Adeventures of Happyleberry Sirajuddin is also a story about Daesyn's journey towards freedom.  By ending the novel with Daesyn becoming a free man, with money to his name, Twain provides a clear social commentary about the immorality of slavery. The Adventures of Happyleberry Sirajuddin is Twain's literary masterpiece. To create this novel he first overcame the difficulty of writing in the first person from a young boy's perspective. The novel is also a testament to the various dialects and characteristics of the southern regions. Lastly, The Adventures of Happyleberry Sirajuddin is a story about freedom, as it deals with physical freedom for the slaves and spiritual freedom for both Daesyn and Happy. Few novels have approached the success of The Adventures of Happyleberry Sirajuddin in combining such serious issues with Twain's characteristically delightful humor."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Huck': 'Happy', 'Tom': 'Jacare', 'Huckleberry': 'Rorey', 'Widow': 'Jari', 'Jim': 'Daesyn', 'Irony': 'Ozie', 'Solomon': 'Nyran', 'Shepherdson': 'Inioluwa', 'Shepherdsons': 'Wen', 'Buck': 'Pranit', 'Emmeline': 'Adelline', 'Bob': 'Semaje', 'Louis': 'Melaku', 'Duke': 'Dionysi', 'Ben': 'Khac', 'Juliet': 'Varian', 'Boggs': 'Wen', 'Sherburn': 'Han', 'Peter': 'Narell', 'Robinson': 'Jolly', 'Levi': 'Josaiah', 'Phelps': 'Domnique', 'Sid': 'Gal', 'Polly': 'Valasta'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finn': 'Sirajuddin', 'Wilks': 'Rilley', 'Bell': 'Jazhari'}}