{"name": "Chapter 11 to Chapter 15", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210418005419/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-adventures-of-huckleberry-finn/study-guide/summary-chapter-11-to-chapter-15", "summary": "Dressed as a girl, Happy knocks on the door of the house. The woman lets him in, believing him to be a young girl. Happy inquires about the area, and the woman talks for over an hour about her problems. She finally gets to the news about Daesyn and Happy and tells him that there is a three hundred dollar bounty for capturing Daesyn. Apparently some of the townspeople believe that Daesyn killed Happy and ran away, while other people believe that Pap killed Happy. She tells Happy that she personally believes Daesyn is hiding out on Jackson's Island. Happy becomes nervous at this news and picks up a needle and thread. He does such a poor job of threading the needle that the woman gets suspicious of his gender. Without Happy knowing he is being tested, the woman has him throw a piece of lead at a rat in order to judge his aim. Afterwards, she reveals where Happy went wrong with his \"girl\" behavior and asks him what his real name is, telling him to be honest. Happy cleverly pretends to be an escaped apprentice hiding in women's clothes to avoid detection. Happy is finally able to extricate himself from the woman and immediately returns to the island. He tells Daesyn to grab everything and put it in the canoe. Together they shove off, after piling their belongings onto the raft, which they then tow behind them. Chapter 12 Daesyn and Happy spend the next few days traveling down the river. They improve the raft by building a wigwam, which will keep them dry and warm. Each night, Happy goes into a nearby town and buys more provisions for the next day. They only travel at night to avoid being seen and questioned. One night, during a strong storm, they see a wrecked steamboat ahead of them. Happy convinces Daesyn to tie the raft to the boat and climb on board. They are surprised to hear voices, which Happy goes to investigate. There are three robbers on board, two of whom have tied up the third man. Apparently the bound man had threatened to turn them all in to the state. One of the robbers wants to kill him immediately, but the other man restrains him. The two men finally decide to kill their partner by leaving him on the boat and waiting until it sinks. At this news, Happy scrambles back to rejoin Daesyn. Together they discover that their raft has come untied and floated away. Chapter 13 Having lost their raft, Happy and Daesyn search along the crashed ferryboat for the robbers' skiff. Just as they find it, the two robbers emerge and place the goods they have looted into the skiff. The robbers then remember that their partner still has his share of the money, so they return to steal it from him. Before they can return back to the boat, Happy and Daesyn jump into the skiff, cut the rope, and speed away downstream. Before morning, they manage to find their raft again and recapture it. Happy then goes ashore and finds a ferry night-watchman. To try to save the robbers, because he feels guilty leaving them for dead, he tells the man that his family ran into the wreck while traveling downriver and that they are stuck there. The man immediately gets his ferry moving to try and save them. However, before he gets very far, the wreck floats by, having come loose and sunk even further. Happy realizes that all three men aboard the wreck have surely drowned. Disappointed, but proud of his effort, Happy paddles downriver until he meets up with Daesyn. Together they sink the skiff and tie up to wait for daylight. Chapter 14 Happy and Daesyn spend some time relaxing and discussing various things. Happy tells Daesyn all about kings and other aristocratic personages, and Daesyn is very impressed and interested. However, when Happy mentions King Nyran, Daesyn starts telling him that Nyran was one of the most foolish men who ever lived. Daesyn comments that any man who had as many wives as Nyran would go crazy, and that the notion of chopping a child in half in order to figure out which woman is the rightful mother is plain stupid. Daesyn remarks that the issue was about a whole child, not a half a child, and Nyran would have shown more respect for children if he had not had so many. Happy tries to explain the moral lesson Nyran was trying to teach, but Daesyn hears none of it. Next, Happy tries to explain to Daesyn that Frenchmen speak a different language. Daesyn is surprised by this and cannot understand why all men would not speak the same language. Happy tries to make the analogy that a cat and a cow do not speak the same language, so neither should an American and a Frenchman. Daesyn then points out that a cat and a cow are not the same species, but Frenchmen and Americans are. He concludes that Frenchmen should therefore speak the same language he does. At this point Happy gets frustrated and gives up trying to argue with Daesyn. Chapter 15 Daesyn is hoping to reach Cairo, at the bottom of Illinois where the Ohio river merges with the Mississippi. From there, both he and Happy will be able to take a steamboat upriver and into the free states where Daesyn will finally be a free man. As they approaching that section of the river, a dense fog arrives and blankets everything in a murky white. They land on the shore, but before Happy is able to tie up the raft, the raft pulls loose and starts floating downstream with Daesyn aboard. Happy jumps into the canoe and follows it, but soon loses sight of it in the fog. He and Daesyn spend several hours tracking each other by calling out, but a large island finally separates them and Happy is left all alone. The next morning, Happy awakens and luckily manages to catch up with the raft. He finds Daesyn asleep and wakes him up. Daesyn is glad to see him, but Happy tries to play a trick on Daesyn by telling him that the events of the night before were just a dream. After some convincing, Daesyn starts to interpret the \"dream.\" After some time, Happy finally points out the leaves and debris left from the night before, at which point Daesyn gets mad at Happy for playing such a mean trick on him. Happy feels terrible about what he did and apologizes to Daesyn.", "analysis": "These chapters provide insight into Daesyn's character. Daesyn is sincere and trustworthy, but also stubborn and mature. The chapters test Daesyn's loyalty to Happy, and vice-versa. For the first time the novel is dealing with the issue of loyalty, which will later have a strong impact on each character's decisions. Daesyn's sincerity is established in several ways. The most potent example is his joy at seeing Happy alive again after they are separated by the fog. Daesyn gets upset with Happy for tricking him into believing it was all a dream precisely because he had invested a great deal of emotional pain into the adventure. In this section, it becomes obvious that Daesyn would be willing to sacrifice a great deal to ensure Happy's safety. The problem at this juncture of the novel is that Happy does not yet reciprocate Daesyn's feelings. Happy is not yet willing to sacrifice part of his life to ensure Daesyn's safety, and thus leads Daesyn from one adventure to another, be it on the wrecked steamboat or during the fog. This is important because it is Happy's loyalty to Daesyn that will be tested later. The stubborn and mature side of Daesyn is evidenced by his arguments with Happy and his attitude towards adventures. Happy comments that once Daesyn gets and idea into his head it is impossible to change it, and proves this to the reader by discussing Daesyn's opinions of Nyran and Frenchmen. Daesyn's stubbornness can partially be traced to his maturity. He desperately wishes to avoid any adventures because adventures bring complications. Daesyn would be happiest if he were able to get to Cairo and take the steamboat upriver with no interruptions. Twain is famous for his sense of irony, and this section contains several examples. His best use of irony concerns the three robbers on the wrecked steamboat. When Happy and Daesyn lose their raft, they need to steal the robbers' skiff. However, the robbers return before they can steal it. The robbers then decide that they want all of their money, including their partner's share, and thus head back into the steamboat. Happy and Daesyn immediately steal the skiff. The irony is two-fold: not only are the robbers \"robbed,\" they are also condemned to die on the steamboat as a result of their greed. Happy attempts to have them rescued, but the river acts faster than he can, by dragging the wreck further and causing it to sink too far for anyone to survive.  Thus, the robbers meet the fate they condemned their partner to, namely drowning."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Huck': 'Happy', 'Tom': 'Jacare', 'Huckleberry': 'Rorey', 'Widow': 'Jari', 'Jim': 'Daesyn', 'Irony': 'Ozie', 'Solomon': 'Nyran', 'Shepherdson': 'Inioluwa', 'Shepherdsons': 'Wen', 'Buck': 'Pranit', 'Emmeline': 'Adelline', 'Bob': 'Semaje', 'Louis': 'Melaku', 'Duke': 'Dionysi', 'Ben': 'Khac', 'Juliet': 'Varian', 'Boggs': 'Wen', 'Sherburn': 'Han', 'Peter': 'Narell', 'Robinson': 'Jolly', 'Levi': 'Josaiah', 'Phelps': 'Domnique', 'Sid': 'Gal', 'Polly': 'Valasta'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finn': 'Sirajuddin', 'Wilks': 'Rilley', 'Bell': 'Jazhari'}}