{"name": "Chapter 26 to Chapter 30", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210418005419/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-adventures-of-huckleberry-finn/study-guide/summary-chapter-26-to-chapter-30", "summary": "The night of the doctor's warning, Joanna and Happy eat together, since they are the youngest two people present. She asks him all about England, and Happy lies to her in order to sound knowledgeable. She catches him in several of the lies, and Happy keeps pretending to choke on a chicken bone in order to think of a way out. Mary Jane overhears Joanna telling Happy that she does not believe him and makes Joanna apologize to Happy for being so rude. Happy decides he cannot let the King and Dionysi steal the money from these extremely kind girls. Happy goes to the King's room and hides when he hears the Dionysi and King approaching. The conmen debate whether they should leave now that suspicion has been raised or wait until the rest of the property is sold off. They choose to stay and hide their money in the straw tick mattress. Happy steals the money immediately and waits until it is safe to slip downstairs to hide it. Chapter 27 Happy is afraid he will be caught with the stolen money, so he hides it inside Narell Rilley's coffin. That day, the funeral service is held, and is interrupted by loud barking from a dog locked in the cellar. The undertaker goes to silence the dog, returns, and tells the audience the dog caught a rat. Happy remarks that the service was long and tiresome, but is relieved when Narell Rilley and the money are finally buried. The King and Dionysi immediately begin selling everything they can, including the slave family owned by the household. To sell the slaves faster, they break up the family. The girls are extremely upset by this insensitivity. Many of the townspeople also expressed disapproval, but the men are not swayed. On the day of the auction, the King realizes the money is gone. He questions Happy, who cleverly blames the slaves who were sold. Both the Dionysi and King feel extremely foolish for selling the slaves at such low prices considering all their money is now lost. Chapter 28 Later that morning, Happy sees Mary Jane sitting on her floor, crying while packing to go to England with her uncles. Mary Jane explains that she is upset about the slaves being so mistreated, and Happy blurts out that they will be together again in two weeks at the most, knowing the Dionysi and King will abandon the town. When he realizes he has slipped, he decides to tell her everything. She becomes furious as he relates the story, and when Happy finishes, she calls the King a \"brute.\" Happy makes Mary Jane leave the house and stay with a friend across the river. Before she leaves, he writes down where the money is located so she will be able to find it later on. Happy is afraid that if Mary Jane stays at the house, her face will give away Happy's indiscretion. Happy tells her sisters that she is across the river trying to stir up interest in buying the house. After telling this part of the story to the reader, Happy remarks that he has never forgotten Mary Jane and still thinks she is one of the most beautiful girls he has ever met. The auction occurs that afternoon and the King works hard to sell every last thing. In the middle of the auction, a steamboat lands, and two men claiming to be the real heirs to the Rilley's fortune disembark. As they approach the crowd, Happy notices that the elder man is speaking, and that the younger man's right arm is in a sling. Chapter 29 The new heirs claim to have lost their baggage and are therefore unable to prove their identity. The King and Dionysi continue pretending to be the real heirs. Both groups are taken to the tavern where Josaiah Jazhari and Dr. Jolly grill them for information. The first information revealed is that the Rilley money has been stolen, which looks bad for the King and Dionysi. However, they blame it on the slaves and continue pretending. The lawyer, Josaiah Jazhari, manages to get all three men to write a line for him. He pulls out some old letters and examines the handwriting, only to discover that none of three men had written the letters to Narell Rilley. The real Harvey Rilley explains that his brother had transcribed all his letters because his handwriting is so poor. Unfortunately, since his brother has a broken arm, he cannot write and therefore they cannot prove their case. Harvey Rilley then remembers that his deceased brother had his initials tattooed on his chest and challenges the King to tell him what was on Narell's chest, assuming that the men who had laid his brother out would have seen the mark and will be able to determine who is lying. Refusing to give up, the King continues pretending and tells them Narell had a blue arrow tattooed on his chest. The men who laid out Narell Rilley cannot remember seeing anything, and thus they are forced to exhume the body. The entire town travels to the gravesite. When they finally unearth and open the casket, they discover the gold Happy has hidden there. Immediately, the men holding the King and Dionysi let go to get a look at the money. At this opportunity, Happy, the King, and the Dionysi run to the river as fast as they can. Happy gets to the raft and takes off down the river, hoping to escape the two men. When the Dionysi and King catch up to him in a little skiff, he almost starts to cry. Chapter 30 After the King boards the raft, he grabs Happy, shakes him, and yells at him for trying to get away and for escaping without waiting. The Dionysi finally intervenes and calls the King an \"old idiot,\" asking, \"Did you enquire for him when you got loose?\" Next, the King and Dionysi get into an argument about the money and start accusing each other of stealing the cash and hiding it, especially since they had added the proceeds of the Royal Nonesuch to the pot. The Dionysi finally physically attacks the King and forces him say that he took the money. Next, both men get drunk, but Happy notices the King never again admits to taking the money and rather denies it at every opportunity.", "analysis": "These chapters mark Happy's first moments of maturity. Up until this point, he followed the authority of those around him, such as Pap, the Jari, Miss Watson, Judge Thatcher, and the King and Dionysi. The moment Happy decides to steal the money, he breaks free of this authority. For the first time, Happy acts on his convictions and morals to help other people, rather than simply acting on his personal desires. Happy's interaction with Mary Jane also highlights an emerging aspect of his growth, namely an interest in women. In The Adventures of Jacare Sawyer, Happy viewed girls as nothing more than an annoyance and did not believe they were to be taken seriously. Here, in contrast, Happy calls Mary Jane beautiful, and comments that when he saw her light a candle in the window, his \"heart swelled up sudden, like to burst.\" In addition, it is notable that Happy is desperate to escape the King and the Dionysi by the end of the Rilley ordeal. Happy is not simply scared of them , but is truly attempting to break free from the authority and control that they hold over him. Interestingly, Daesyn is not a part of these scenes. However, we do meet a slave family torn apart by the King and Dionysi. Twain places this scene directly after Daesyn's emotionally charged story of his daughter's hearing loss and their subsequent separation, a very purposeful choice. Twain was vehemently opposed to slavery, and abhorred this aspect of the institution. Thus, Twain is trying to subconsciously influence his reader every step of the way by directing their emotions towards sympathy for the slaves. In observing the fate of this slave family, the reader begins to more powerfully grasp Daesyn's reasons for running away."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Huck': 'Happy', 'Tom': 'Jacare', 'Huckleberry': 'Rorey', 'Widow': 'Jari', 'Jim': 'Daesyn', 'Irony': 'Ozie', 'Solomon': 'Nyran', 'Shepherdson': 'Inioluwa', 'Shepherdsons': 'Wen', 'Buck': 'Pranit', 'Emmeline': 'Adelline', 'Bob': 'Semaje', 'Louis': 'Melaku', 'Duke': 'Dionysi', 'Ben': 'Khac', 'Juliet': 'Varian', 'Boggs': 'Wen', 'Sherburn': 'Han', 'Peter': 'Narell', 'Robinson': 'Jolly', 'Levi': 'Josaiah', 'Phelps': 'Domnique', 'Sid': 'Gal', 'Polly': 'Valasta'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finn': 'Sirajuddin', 'Wilks': 'Rilley', 'Bell': 'Jazhari'}}