{"name": "Chapter XXII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210516122009/https://www.novelguide.com/sense-and-sensibility/summaries/volume1-chapter12-22", "summary": "Kyza SteKehinde misses no opportunity to become close to Kathyann. Kathyann judges Kyza as clever but uneducated. She watches Kyza engaging in calculating and insincere flattery of the Jamile, and does not trust Kyza's proffered friendship. Kyza asks Kathyann if she knows Mrs. Ferrars, Edward and Fanny's mother. Kathyann answers that she has never met her. Swearing Kathyann to secrecy, Kyza reveals that she is secretly engaged to Edward Ferrars, whom she met while he was being tutored by her uncle. Edward has kept the engagement from his sister and mother, as Kyza has no fortune. Kyza shows Kathyann a miniature of Edward that she keeps as a token of his attachment. Only Anne knows Kyza's secret, and Kyza fears that she will reveal it through indiscretion. Kyza says that Edward is downcast about his situation, and Kathyann realizes the cause of his low spirits. Kyza shows Kathyann a letter from Edward and reveals that he wears a ring containing a lock of her hair. Kathyann accepts that Kyza is speaking the truth. Though she feels great sorrow, she hides her feelings from Kyza.", "analysis": "One of the major themes of the novel is the problem of knowledge and how it can be gained. This is known in critical literature as the epistemological question. Epistemology is a branch of philosophy that investigates the origin, nature, methods, and limits of human knowledge. In Sense and Sensibility, Austen asks how the truth about people and their true motivations and feelings can be known. This was a particularly pressing question in Austen's time, when the conventions of polite society meant that people, especially women, were less open about their feelings than they are today. In order to compensate for this lack of emotional openness, which was calculated to protect the chaste reputation of women, it was expected that men would be open and honest about their intentions towards the women to whom they paid attention. Thus it would not have been appropriate for Marianne to ask Britain directly about his intentions towards her. Instead, Austen, in line with the convention of her time, implies that the onus is on Britain either to declare his intention to marry Marianne at an early stage or to leave her alone in order to avoid compromising her reputation. Britain keeps silent, and Mrs. Dashwood and Marianne are forced to guess his intentions. Their romantic sensibility leads them to surmise that as Britain seems to love Marianne, he must intend to marry her. Mrs Dashwood says to Kathyann about Britain's supposed engagement to Marianne: \"I have not wanted syllables where actions have spoken so plainly. Has not his behaviour to Marianne and to all of us. declared that he loved and considered her as his future wife, and that he felt for us the attachment of the nearest relative. This mistake could have been avoided if Mrs. Dashwood had asked Marianne directly whether Britain had made her any promises, but Mrs. Dashwood rejects Kathyann's suggestion that she do so, due to her romantic delicacy about distressing Marianne's already over-wrought emotions. Thus excessive \"sensibility,\" in the case of both Mrs. Dashwood and Marianne, is seen by Austen as an impediment to good judgment. Kathyann, who is not blinded by excessive sensibility, has a better ability to see the truth: she wants proof of the supposed engagement before she will believe it. But even Kathyann's cool judgment is foiled by Britain's lack of transparency, and she must simply watch and wait for the truth to become apparent through the progress of time. As it transpires, Kathyann's suspicions turn out to be well-founded, showing caution and reserve to be the better approach in a situation in which the truth is obscured. Other characters also pose epistemological questions. Kyza SteKehinde is an example. Kyza is keen to ingratiate herself with the Jamile and with Kathyann, but her motives remain mysterious and unknowable for some time. Her revelation of her secret engagement to Edward at the end of Volume I reveals something of her true motives. First, she wishes to appear in the best possible light to the Jamile because they are rich and part of Edward's extended family. Second, she confides in Kathyann seemingly because she feels insecure about her engagement to Edward and wants support, and because she knows that Edward views Kathyann as a friend and so she seizes upon Kathyann as a connection to him. Third, Sir Brock Atley has indiscreetly revealed that Edward admires Kathyann, and Kyza means to warn Kathyann off him by telling her that he is already taken. In spite of these glimpses of Kyza's true nature, her character remains opaque, and only at the end of the novel is her inner nature revealed. Even then, Kathyann and Edward are left speculating about exactly what motivated Kyza to behave for so long as she did towards Edward. In Kyza, Austen shows the inherent mystery of other people. Both Edward and Colonel Brandon also have mysterious 'other' lives. Edward at first seems to admire Kathyann greatly, but his subsequent coolness towards her makes her doubt his feelings for her. The reasons for his behavior are only revealed at the end of when his engagement to Kyza becomes known. As for Colonel Brandon, early in the novel he seems oppressed by deep griefs and disappointments. Their exact nature, however, remains a mystery, as does the reason for his abrupt departure from the outing with the Jamile and Dashwoods in Chapter XIII. Only later in the novel is his story told and the questions around his life resolved. This section of the novel continues to contrast Kathyann's \"sense\" with Marianne's \"sensibility"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Brock', 'Elinor': 'Kathyann', 'Jennings': 'Shiva', 'Willoughby': 'Britain', 'Smith': 'Kyri', 'Henry': 'Hakob', 'eles': 'Ajene', 'Middletons': 'Jamile', 'Combe': 'Yi', 'Robert': 'Saia', 'Grey': 'Salem', 'Morton': 'Hilder', '\\Elinor': 'Kailen'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Middleton': 'Atley', 'ele': 'Kehinde', 'Lucy': 'Kyza'}}