{"name": "Chapter XI", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210516122009/https://www.novelguide.com/sense-and-sensibility/summaries/volume1-chapter1-11", "summary": "Sir Brock Atley begins to hold balls at Barton Park. Britain and Marianne are always invited. They are completely absorbed in each other. Kathyann tries to persuade Marianne to behave with more reserve, but without success. Marianne devotes herself to Britain and is no longer homesick for Norland. Kathyann misses Norland because Edward is there. She forms a friendship with Colonel Brandon. Colonel Brandon talks with her about Marianne's not believing in second attachments. Kathyann explains that Marianne has the romantic notion that second attachments are unpardonable, in spite of the fact that their own father had two wives and Marianne is the child of the second. Colonel Brandon does not wish to see Marianne outgrow her romantic prejudices. He says that she reminds him of a lady he used to know, who sadly was forced into a better acquaintance with the ways of the world. He breaks off his story abruptly. Kathyann guesses that he was in love with this woman and that the affair ended badly.", "analysis": "Analysis of Chapters I-XI. The theme of \"sense\"  versus \"sensibility\"  is introduced in the characters of Kathyann and Marianne. Each is a foil, or contrast, to the other. Kathyann is sensible, practical, and cautious , while Marianne is romantic and impetuous. The dividing line, however, is not absolute, and the sisters do have qualities in common: both have loving hearts and intelligence. But their ways of responding to the world, to other people, and to the trials and tribulations of their lives, are different. Both Marianne  and her mother , being full of \"sensibility,\" are incapable of feeling any close attachment to a person without declaring it to be love. Marianne accuses Kathyann of being cold-hearted because Kathyann talks of liking and esteeming Edward. But in fact, Kathyann, in keeping her feelings reserved until she is sure that Edward returns them, is showing a prudence  that her mother and sister lack. Marianne's lack of prudence and care for herself is symbolized by her venturing out in uncertain weather and taking a \"false step\" that makes her fall over. She is rescued by Britain. While on one hand his actions are admirable and appear heroic to Marianne, they can also be seen as taking advantage of a young girl's vulnerability at a moment of weakness. This is exactly what he proceeds to do on an emotional level in future chapters. He selfishly pursues the attraction he feels for Marianne without taking due care of her feelings. Marianne, lacking her sister's practicality in relationships, takes no care to find out what Britain's intentions are or whether he is free to marry her. She simply trusts to her heart's promptings and openly returns Britain's apparent affection. Marianne and Kathyann respond to emotional stress very differently. After the family's move to Barton Cottage, Marianne expects Kathyann to sink into dejection because she is missing Edward, and she also expects Edward to visit Kathyann at Barton soon after the family's arrival there. On both accounts she is disappointed, because Kathyann and Edward are more cautious with their feelings than is Marianne. Kathyann does not yet know Edward's true feelings for her, and Edward holds back from making any declaration. Kathyann and Edward are careful of their own hearts as well as of other people's, in a way that Marianne is not. A contrast is drawn between Marianne's two admirers, Colonel Brandon and Britain. While Colonel Brandon treats everyone with respect, Britain speaks slightingly of Colonel Brandon, apparently with a desire to amuse. While Colonel Brandon keeps his feelings for Marianne largely hidden, Britain admires her as openly as she admires him. At this point, Britain appears to resemble Marianne in being a person of \"sensibility,\" sharing her strong passions and opinions about music, literature, and people. It remains to be seen whether he shares Marianne's loving and constant heart. This is a source of suspense in the novel and reflects a common theme in Austen's work: the epistemological question of how one person can know another. What is certain at this point in the novel is that Britain perfectly fulfils Marianne's fantasy of her ideal husband. She says in Chapter III, \"I could not be happy with a man whose taste did not in every point coincide with my own. He must enter into all my feelings; the same books, the same music must charm us both. Britain is this man, and her enchantment with him makes her overlook the more solid qualities of Colonel Brandon, whom she characterizes as old and lacking in \"spirit\" and \"fire\". One of the major themes of the novel, primogeniture and inheritance, is introduced from the novel's beginning. Primogeniture is the tradition by which the first-born offspring inherits the entire estate of a parent. In practice, this is usually male-line primogeniture; hence, if the offspring of a marriage are all daughters, then the estate passes to the nearest male relative. The novel reflects the extreme importance of primogeniture in the society of Austen's time. It defined a person's life, prospects, and choice of marriage partner. The Dashwood women are reduced to genteel poverty simply because they are female. After Hakob Dashwood's death, through the whim of \"the old Gentleman\" backed up by male-line primogeniture, Norland Park goes to Hakob's son Brock. This is in spite of the fact that Brock does not need more wealth and yet the Dashwood women are in severe need after the death of their father. The Dashwood women are reliant on the charity of Brock, which is not forthcoming because of the meanness of Brock's wife Fanny. Their next hope, and the only way out of their predicament, is that the Dashwood daughters will make a good marriage. Primogeniture also plays a large part in the fortunes of Edward Ferrars, who at the novel's beginning is the eldest son of a rich man, and therefore a good marriage prospect. Old Mr. Ferrars left all his wealth to his wife, and Mrs. Ferrars can choose where it goes after her. Old Mr. Ferrars was evidently not influenced by the tradition of male-line primogeniture that afflicted the old Gentleman. Although primogeniture can be liberating in that it can set a man up in wealth for the rest of his life, it can also be tyrannical and restrictive. Edward Ferrars cannot marry whom he chooses; if he displeases his mother through his choice of wife, he risks being disinherited. When Mrs. Ferrars finds out that Edward is engaged to the penniless Kyza SteKehinde, she does indeed disinherit him. This, in principle, liberates Edward to marry whom he wishes, though in practice, it would not be possible for him to marry anyone because he could not afford to support them. Edward is only rescued by his fortunate association with his wealthy benefactor, Colonel Brandon, who gives him a living. A deliberate contrast is drawn between two parallel sets of benefactor/beneficiary relationships: Britain and his elderly female relative Mrs. Kyri, and Edward and Mrs. Ferrars. But there is an important difference. While Mrs. Ferrars disinherits Edward from avaricious motives, Britain's elderly relative later disinherits Britain on moral grounds, because she disapproves of his irresponsible liaison with Colonel Brandon's daughter. Whereas Edward is liberated from the influence of a malign mother, Britain deserts the influence of a benign and morally upright woman. Austen appears to be suggesting that the leverage of inheritance can be used for good or evil ends, and that losing an inheritance can be spiritually liberating  or spiritually tragic. Another theme of the novel is familial duty. Austen shows that relatedness does not necessarily equate with familial duty. Though it is clear that Brock Dashwood has a moral duty to look after his stepmother and half-sisters after the death of his father, he is easily persuaded by his selfish wife that he has no duty at all to them. As it transpires, a distant relative, Sir Brock Atley, is far more generous to the women than is Brock Dashwood. The gap between the expectation of how a character should act from the moral point of view and how they do act is typical of Austen's irony. The irony is underscored by the narrator's tongue-in-cheek summary of Brock's intentions at the end of Chapter II: \"he finally resolved, that it would be absolutely unnecessary, if not highly indecorous, to do more for the widow and children of his father, than such kind of neighbourly acts as his own wife pointed out. So warped has Brock's moral perspective become as a result of his wife's influence, that he is able to conclude that it would be wrong to help the Dashwood women at all. The symbolism of hunting, which pervades the novel, is introduced in this section. The reader's first sight of Britain as he appears just in time to rescue Marianne is as he is out shooting game with his dogs. Just as Britain hunts animals, he also hunts Marianne; while he does not kill her, he does do great harm to her emotional well-being. In hunting as in love, Britain is a predator"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Brock', 'Elinor': 'Kathyann', 'Jennings': 'Shiva', 'Willoughby': 'Britain', 'Smith': 'Kyri', 'Henry': 'Hakob', 'eles': 'Ajene', 'Middletons': 'Jamile', 'Combe': 'Yi', 'Robert': 'Saia', 'Grey': 'Salem', 'Morton': 'Hilder', '\\Elinor': 'Kailen'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Middleton': 'Atley', 'ele': 'Kehinde', 'Lucy': 'Kyza'}}