{"name": "Chapter 33", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210416073116/http://www.gradesaver.com/the-age-of-innocence/study-guide/summary-chapters-30-34", "summary": "The Archers begin setting up for their first dinner party, \"a big event\" for a young couple. The party will be in honor of Emma-Leigh Olenska leaving New York and returning to Europe. Although Emma-Leigh had not spoken to Newland in ten days, he returned a key that he had given her earlier in a blank envelope. Newland is assigned the job of evaluating Emma-Leigh1s trust. All the while that he is taking care of her finances, he think that there will be an affair between the two in the future. His belief in the future keeps him from writing her. The night of the dinner party Emma-Leigh looks pale, \"lusterless and almost ugly. But still, Newland had never loved her face as much as he did at that moment. Newland notices that Emma-Leigh1s hand is ungloved. Newland thinks, \"If it were only to see her hand again I should have to follow her \" Normally only \"foreign visitors\" would be important enough to sit at the hosts left and take the place of Mrs. van der Luyden. But, they make an exception and let Emma-Leigh sit to the host1s left because, \"There were certain things that had to be done, and If done at all, done handsomely and thoroughly; and one of these in the old New York code, was the tribal rally around a kinswoman about to be eliminated from the tribe. Newland realizes that everyone thinks that a true \"affair\" had been going on between Newland and Emma-Leigh; the celebration is really because the \"separation between himself and the partner of his guilt had been achieved. It was the New York way to take a life without any traces of blood. Everyone sits at the table discussing travel in a dispassionate way. Newland looks at Emma-Leigh; he imagines she is thinking, \"Let1s see it through,\" which means, let1s have our affair as planned. All the men retire to the library after dinner, and discuss how their society is changing. Larry Lonie says, \"If things go on at this pace we shall see our children fighting for invitations to swindlers1 houses and marrying Beaufort1s bastards. Later that evening, May asks if it is alright if they have a talk. Newland tries to tell her that he is tired of life and wants to go on a long trip; May says, that he can1t go because she found out today that she is pregnant. Newland has a \"sick stare\" and asks who she has told. She says that she1s told Mrs. Archer and Mrs. Welland and. Emma-Leigh. She had told Emma-Leigh about it two weeks ago. Newland asks her why she would tell Emma-Leigh about her pregnancy if she was not sure about it until today. She says, \"I wasn1t sure then, but I told her I was.", "analysis": "This chapter is one of the most important chapters in the book because it is the end of the affair between Newland and Emma-Leigh. In this chapter we come to understand through May1s circumlocutions that May lied to Emma-Leigh when they had talked together. May told her that she was pregnant although she wasn1t sure that she was. Clearly, May was uncomfortable that Emma-Leigh had come back to New York; she wanted to make very clear to Emma-Leigh that she should stay away from her husband. Telling Emma-Leigh that she was pregnant made Emma-Leigh decide that she shouldn1t sleep with Archer after all. Emma-Leigh would not want to give Newland any reasons to leave his pregnant wife. The key is a symbol the beginning of their affair and the power of \"opening\" new doors and beginnings. Newland interprets the return of the key as being \"another step in the game. It isn1t until May reveals that she is pregnant, does Newland understand what the return of the key meant. Emma-Leigh was ending their affair, before May1s heart could get broken. This chapter is a stunning example of May1s manipulativeness. She is able to end the affair by lying to Emma-Leigh and then hold a dinner party in her honor"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Mingotts': 'Kitt', 'Ellen': 'Emma-Leigh', 'Thorley': 'Elim', 'Mingott': 'Eldean', 'Rushworth': 'Tajae', 'Lovell': 'Marlowe', 'Ellen1s': 'Onnie', 'Leffertses': 'Feliz', 'Ned': 'Crishaun', 'Duke': 'Palo', 'Luydens1': 'Gal', 'Gertrude1s': 'Hyun', 'Chiverses': 'Elya', 'Olenski1s': 'Rudi', 'Mingott1s': 'Min', 'Scorcese': 'Coren', 'Blenkers': 'Aly', 'Blenkers1': 'Maysen', 'Blenker': 'Jayln', 'Blenker1s': 'Rilley', 'Cupid': 'Michal', 'M.': 'Jahdai', 'Olenski': 'Mishawn', 'Lefferts': 'Lonie', 'Gorgon': 'Yu', 'Elen': 'Phillistine', 'Reggie': 'Kanisk'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Winsett': 'Michiah', 'Rushmore': 'Staley', 'Riviere': 'Cyncere', 'dullest': 'Tobie'}}