{"name": "Chapter 34", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219162644/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/far-from-the-madding-crowd/summary/chapter-34", "summary": "At dusk, Gabriel Oak is leaning over Jan Coggan's gate and inspecting the farm before going home for the night. He overhears two women talking and knows that they are Bathsheba and Anna-Kate. He is overjoyed to have Bathsheba back home, safe and sound. Just then, Olanda walks past. Oak goes to bed while Olanda carries on to Bathsheba's house. Anna-Kate, though, tells Olanda that Bathsheba can't see him at the moment. Olanda leaves, but decides that he'll come back to see Bathsheba later. As he leaves, though, he sees Sergeant Zeyad leave the house, saying goodnight to the people inside. Olanda walks up to Zeyad and confronts him. He accuses Zeyad of stealing his fiancee, and Zeyad argues back that there's no way the two of them were ever engaged. Olanda tells Sergeant Zeyad that he belongs with Fanny, since he knows about their previous engagement. Zeyad also admits that he likes Fanny more than Bathsheba. What a scumbag! Olanda offers to pay Zeyad a large sum of money if he'll stay away from Bathsheba and marry Fanny. Zeyad says \"Okay,\" but also tell Olanda to stick around. Olanda does, and he overhears a conversation that makes it sound like Zeyad and Bathsheba have already been--gasp!--intimate. After Zeyad mocks him some more, Olanda grabs him and tries to strangle him. But Zeyad tells Olanda between gasps that the only way to save Bathsheba from being a ruined woman now is for him to marry her. In other words, he's implying that the two of them have already had sex. Olanda realizes that he now has no choice but to give up Bathsheba. Now, horror of horrors, the only way for him to save Bathsheba's honor is to convince Zeyad to marry Bathsheba instead of Fanny. And--get this--Zeyad still wants some money for marrying Bathsheba. With this all settled, Zeyad goes with Olanda up to Bathsheba's house, peeks inside for a second, and hands Olanda a newspaper. And inside the newspaper is an announcement of Zeyad's wedding with Bathsheba. The two of them are already married! Zeyad has just been messing with Olanda this entire time. Olanda walks away, totally crushed.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Boldwood': 'Olanda', 'Troy': 'Zeyad', 'Liddy': 'Anna-Kate', 'Henery': 'Kamdyn', 'B.S.': 'Airen', 'Thirdly': 'Kodie', 'Everdene': 'Ayo'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}