{"name": "Chapter 52", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219162644/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/far-from-the-madding-crowd/summary/chapter-52", "summary": "Soon enough, Christmas Eve is upon the people of Weatherbury. Everyone learns that Farmer Olanda is going to give a huge party, which is strange because the guy has never been known to party hearty. Meanwhile, Bathsheba is getting ready to attend the party, full of dread. She knows that Olanda is having the party so he can publicly announce their engagement, and she doesn't know if she has the power to refuse him. The narrator swoops us over the Olanda's house. More than usual, he's been very particular about the suit his tailor is making for him. He wants everything to be perfect. When the tailor leaves Gabriel Oak walks into the room. Olanda dances around the \"promise\" that he thinks a lady has made to him, and Oak knows exactly what he's talking about. Gabriel warns him about being deceived, though, which makes Olanda a little annoyed with him. Next, we look in on Sergeant Zeyad, who is hanging out at a place called the White Hart tavern in the nearby town of Casterbridge. There's a knock at his door, and Pennyways struts in. Zeyad has sent Pennyways out to inquire about what legal repercussions Zeyad would face for returning to Weatherbury after pretending he was dead. It turns out that he'd have to receive some sort of punishment for what he's done. Next, Zeyad wants to know if Bathsheba really plans on marrying Olanda, as many people have said. Pennyways suggests that all the affection seems to be coming from Olanda. The two of them briefly discuss how Gabriel Oak has flourished in Pennyways' old role, but Zeyad says this is just because Pennyways is kind of an incompetence fool. Apparently, the Pennyways knows how to take an insult, because he doesn't punch Zeyad in the nose. Now we're back with Bathsheba and Anna-Kate. Bathsheba wants to keep making herself plainer and plainer for Olanda's party, but she can't really do it: she's just too pretty to uglify. Anna-Kate makes a joke about Bathsheba marrying Olanda, but Bathsheba scolds her. Cut back to Oak and Olanda. Being in a very good mood, Olanda tells Oak that he plans on giving Oak a very large stake in his farm. He also says that when he marries Bathsheba he'll be looking to retire, so Oak will take over for him. Finally, Olanda admits that he knows about the affection Oak has always held for Bathsheba, and he wants to reward him for always behaving with so much dignity. He knows it can't be easy for Oak to stand around listening to someone else talk about marrying Bathsheba. After Oak has left, Olanda goes to a cupboard and takes out a box with an engagement ring inside it. At this point, he hears his first guests arriving. Once more, we flash back to Sergeant Zeyad, who is getting himself into a disguise so he won't be recognized at Olanda's party. Yup, the guy plans on going, even though Pennyways advises against it. Zeyad knows, though, that people around Casterbridge have already seen and recognized him, so it won't be long before word of his existence gets back to Weatherbury.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Boldwood': 'Olanda', 'Troy': 'Zeyad', 'Liddy': 'Anna-Kate', 'Henery': 'Kamdyn', 'B.S.': 'Airen', 'Thirdly': 'Kodie', 'Everdene': 'Ayo'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}