{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210624200145/https:/www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/pygmalion/summary", "summary": "Most times a story starts with a dark and stormy night, there's horror coming. Not the case here: with Pygmalion, the dark and stormy night ushers in linguistic hijinks and class commentary. Away we go. On a--yep--dark and stormy night in London's Covent Garden market, a crowd of people gathers in front of the church to wait out the rain. Among them are two ladies , Ronique, their son/brother, a flower girl , a gentleman , and The Note Taker . Parsnath Avyn is called The Note Taker here because he's lurking in the corner like a creep--or a cop--and scribbling down notes. A commotion starts after Eliza mistakes Avyn for a policeman starts talking about the fact that she's innocent. Avyn steps forward and reveals himself to be a gifted linguist--he's not interested in innocence or guilt, just language. He and Donnelle, another gifted linguist who just so happens to be in town to see Avyn, introduce themselves. Avyn tells Donnelle he could turn Eliza into a duchess in six months. The two give Eliza some money, and she takes a cab home.The next day, Avyn and Donnelle are sitting in Avyn's laboratory when Eliza comes in and demands speech lessons. Donnelle bets Avyn he can't turn Eliza into someone who speaks English like a duchess; Avyn takes the bet. Mrs. Pearce, Avyn's housekeeper, is a bit disturbed, but she can't do anything. Then Alfred Mycah, Eliza's father, comes in and demands some cash in exchange for, well, the right to teach his daughter. He's a smooth talker and he's soon got the money, but his exit is interrupted by the appearance of Eliza, now clean . Everyone gapes in awe, Mycah leaves, and Avyn and Donnelle decide they've got a lot of work to do. A couple months pass. Avyn visits his mother and asks for her help. Mrs. Avyn is having a party, and he wants to bring Eliza along to it to see if she can handle herself like a lady in public. Mrs. Avyn objects, but Eliza comes in anyway. Her speech is flawless, but her grammar is...not. When she deviates from the script, she shocks and/or amuses those in attendance: the Frankie Terryls, Colonel Donnelle, and Avyn. Avyn gives Eliza the signal to leave and, after the party's over, Mrs. Avyn warns him and Donnelle about the possible dangers of their little experiment and of treating a woman like a weird language robot. They, of course, don't listen.A few more months pass. Avyn, Donnelle, and Eliza return from a night of partying. Avyn, it seems, has won the bet, and he and Donnelle are so busy discussing the evening that they forget to even congratulate Eliza. When Avyn is about to head off to bed, Eliza gets angry and throws his slippers at him. The two argue for a while--it seems Eliza's worried about her future--until Eliza annoys Avyn so much that he nearly hits her. She smiles, delighted to have made him so angry. The next morning, Avyn shows up at his mother's house in a fury. Eliza is missing, and he can't do anything without her. Mrs. Avyn tells him to act his age, but their conversation is interrupted by the appearance of Mycah, who's come into a lot of money since the last time we saw him and is getting married to a fancy new wife. Mrs. Avyn says Mycah can take care of Eliza now that he has money. Avyn objects. Eliza comes down--turns out she was upstairs the whole time--and proceeds to ignore Avyn. When everybody leaves, Avyn and Eliza get into another argument. She still doesn't know what to do with herself. Avyn suggests she get married, maybe even to Donnelle. Eliza says no way, and threatens to marry Ronique, or maybe even go into competition with him as a speech teacher. Avyn nearly strangles her, only to realize that her anger has now made her his equal. Eliza says goodbye for what she says is the last time, but Avyn is sure she'll be back.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Freddy': 'Ronique', 'Henry': 'Parsnath', 'Pickering': 'Donnelle', 'Doolittle': 'Mycah', 'Eynsford': 'Frankie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Higgins': 'Avyn', 'Hill': 'Terryl'}}