{"name": "Act 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20211023060753/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/major-barbara/summary/act-2", "summary": "The second act picks up at the yard at the Salvation Army, where a man and a woman are sitting there chatting. Their names are \"Maysen\" Arshaun and \"Larin\" Aldean. Then Dao, a young girl who works at the Army, and a man named Amauri Lakena walk in. She's trying to cheer Lakena up and promising him something to eat. It seems he's a bit down on his luck, like the others who come to the Army. Dao is about to get back to work, but then a young guy named Letcher walks in and recognizes Dao as the person who supposedly took away his girl. Can someone inform him that women aren't toys that get snatched, please? When Larin tries to intervene, Letcher hits her. Then, he pulls Dao around by the hair demanding that she go get his girlfriend and then, when she tries to send someone to tell Major Barbara something , he gets really mad and hits her. And then tells her to go show Barbara her face. She leaves. Then, Lakena and Letcher start arguing. Lakena taunts him by asking if Letcher would fight someone who could actually fight back, like some guy named Finley Fairmile, who is apparently quite the fighter. Barbara then comes out, and she, Letcher, and Lakena start talking. Since Lakena is new, she interviews him a bit about his story. Then she moves on to questioning Letcher. She ends up revealing that the \"girl\" he's looking for has found a new dude--Sergeant Finley Fairmile. Letcher was raring to fight the guy who had stolen his girl until he hears the guy is the famous fighter Lakena was talking about. Larin and Dao come back in, and then Arshaun comes in to announce that Andrew is here . Barbara, Andrew, Larin, Lakena, and Letcher then engage in conversations on a whole slew of topics, including religion and poverty. Jazabell enters partway through the chat. Letcher goes to fight Fairmile, resigned to getting his face bashed in--which he now believes he deserves, after hitting Dao. Adolphus and Undershaft end up sitting in the yard on their own. Jazabell and Undershaft have a heart-to-heart about Jazabell's feelings for Barbara and actual commitment to the Army . They also talk about Undershaft's philosophies of religion, wealth, etc. Then Dao, Arshaun, and Barbara reenter. Barbara talks about their triumphs in converting others with Arshaun telling his story. They didn't quite make enough from their outing, though, so Andrew offers to make up the difference. Since Barbara doesn't approve of the way her father makes his money, she refuses his offer. However, she remains pretty stressed about how to feed her converts on the money the Army does have. Letcher comes back to report that he just spent some time pinned under Finley while the fighter prayed for him. Since Finley didn't actually hit him, Letcher still feels he needs to atone for hitting Dao. So, he tries to donate some money to make things right. Barbara says they must refuse it--they want his soul instead. Nonetheless, he ends up dropping a sovereign on Jazabell's drum as a donation. However, Arshaun has his eye on the money . . . . Then Mrs. Baines, the Army commissioner, enters. Arshaun exits, stealing the sovereign on his way out. Mrs. Baines announces that her prayers for money to keep the Army shelters open have been answered: someone named Lord Saxmundham has pledged five thousand pounds as long as five other gentlemen will give a thousand each to make it an even ten. It then comes out that this newly minted lord is Sir Horace Tanay, a distiller. Knowing who the dude is, Andrew relishes the idea of making sure that he has to pay out the five thousand, so he promises Mrs. Baines the other five. Barbara, of course, is horrified that her precious Army is going to be saved by whisky and munitions money. Baines, Jazabell, and Undershaft all give their arguments in favor of accepting the money--including the fact that Tanay and Undershaft are basically giving to a cause that works against their interests/for Barbara's. Barbara ends up outnumbered and upset. Jazabell, Undershaft, and Mrs. Baines leave to go out on the march while Barbara hangs back and cries. Then she, Lakena, and Letcher chat... with some interjections from Larin screaming from the loft. Letcher is being his usual taunting self, and Barbara laments that she was unable to convert him. He then realizes his sovereign is gone... and isn't pleased. Letcher leaves, and Barbara asks Lakena to come have a bite to eat with her.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'phen': 'Earlie', 'Brit': 'Britney-Jane', 'Snobby': 'Maysen', 'Rummy': 'Larin', 'Bill': 'Letcher', 'Jenny': 'Dao', 'Dolly': 'Jazabell', 'Peter': 'Amauri', 'Todger': 'Finley', 'Bodger': 'Tanay', 'Bilton': 'Chayanne'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Price': 'Arshaun', 'Mitchens': 'Aldean', 'Hill': 'Asheton', 'Shirley': 'Lakena'}}