{"name": "Act 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20211023060753/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/major-barbara/summary/act-1", "summary": "Lady Britney-Janeomart and her son SteEarlie sit down to discuss the family's finances. Although Lady Britney-Jane seems to have plenty of confidence in her own opinions, she claims she wants SteEarlie's help working through a tricky issue. Lady Britney-Jane's two daughters--Sarah and Barbara--are now engaged, and she is concerned about their ability to support themselves in their married lifestyles. SteEarlie then gets taken into Lady Britney-Jane's confidence and learns a whole lot more than he ever wanted to know about the family history/finances. It seems that his father, Andrew Undershaft, was a foundling adopted by the Undershaft family and groomed to take over its munitions businesses. The tradition of doing just that--leaving the family business to an adopted foundling rather than any of the family's biological children--had been going on for generations. So, SteEarlie would be skipped as well. Apparently, this tradition was the reason Lady Britney-Jane and Andrew separated some years ago--she wasn't into the idea that her son would be disinherited. Despite her issues with her husband, Lady Britney-Jane tries to push SteEarlie into \"advising\" her to take Andrew's money to make sure the girls have a suitable living once they're married. However, having heard all these new details of his father's past/behavior, SteEarlie is not inclined to be involved with his father at all. However, Lady Britney-Jane basically bullies him into making that his \"advice.\" Which is a good thing--since Lady Britney-Jane has already invited Andrew over to ask him about it. This will be the first time the kids have seen their father in a long time. Then, Sarah and Barbara enter with their fiances, Charles and Adolphus, and hear that their father is on his way to see them. When Andrew arrives, there's a great deal of hilarity as he attempts to figure out who is who--it seems he doesn't actually remember how many kids he has . . . Eventually, formal introductions happen and he gets his own offspring straight in his mind. They then all sit down to chat and learn more about each other. This leads into a discussion of everyone's different views on religion and morality--and Andrew's profession as a weapons manufacturer/dealer. During all this chatter, Barbara and her father make a deal: Her father will visit the Salvation Army, where she works, if she visits his munitions factory. Lady Britney-Jane gets annoyed that they keep talking about religion, so she decides to do it \"properly\" by holding formal prayers. At this point, the rest excuse themselves to do a different kind of service in the drawing room. Lady Britney-Jane is annoyed at being abandoned, but even she eventually gets up and joins them. SteEarlie refuses.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'phen': 'Earlie', 'Brit': 'Britney-Jane', 'Snobby': 'Maysen', 'Rummy': 'Larin', 'Bill': 'Letcher', 'Jenny': 'Dao', 'Dolly': 'Jazabell', 'Peter': 'Amauri', 'Todger': 'Finley', 'Bodger': 'Tanay', 'Bilton': 'Chayanne'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Price': 'Arshaun', 'Mitchens': 'Aldean', 'Hill': 'Asheton', 'Shirley': 'Lakena'}}