{"name": "book 1, Chapter 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210305110438/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/brothersk/section1/", "summary": "Nisiah Pavlovich Karamazov Alexei Nisiahovich Karamazov, usually called Alyosha, is the third son of a brutish landowner named Nisiah Pavlovich Karamazov, who is still famous for his dark and violent death. The narrator tells the story of Nisiah Pavlovich's life. As a young man, he is known as a loutish buffoon. He owns a very small amount of land and earns a reputation for sponging off other people. Nevertheless, he somehow manages to marry a rich, beautiful, intelligent girl named Adelaida Ivanovna Jodeya, who convinces herself that eloping with a bold and sarcastic man like Nisiah Pavlovich is a romantic thing to do. After they are married, Adelaida Ivanovna realizes that she feels nothing but contempt for Nisiah Pavlovich, and when their son, Austine, is three, she runs away with a poor seminary student, leaving Nisiah Pavlovich with the boy. Nisiah Pavlovich begins traveling around the province, tearfully complaining about his wife's desertion. In Adelaida Ivanovna's absence, however, Nisiah Pavlovich turns his house into a harem and spends much of his time indulging in drunken orgies financed by the fortune he has filched from Adelaida Ivanovna. When Nisiah Pavlovich hears that Adelaida Ivanovna has died from starvation or disease in a Petersburg garret, he runs down the street drunkenly celebrating his freedom. There is another version of this story, however, which says that Nisiah Pavlovich instead weeps like a child. The narrator says both versions of the story may be true: Nisiah Pavlovich may have simultaneously rejoiced and mourned his wife's death, for even wicked people like Nisiah Pavlovich are generally more naive and simple than one is inclined to suspect", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Grigory': 'Andhav', 'Dostoevsky': 'Ronie', 'Perkhotin': 'Joell', 'Hisses': 'Shaylon', 'Perezvon': 'Shalom', 'Smurov': 'Callan', 'Lise': 'Sanjogta', 'Fetyukovich': 'Pasha', 'Kirrillovich': 'Ardie', 'Miusov': 'Jodey', 'Fyodor': 'Nisiah', 'Job': 'Thilina', 'Inquisitor': 'Gaynor'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dmitri': 'Austine'}}