{"name": "book 2, Chapter 6", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210305110438/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/brothersk/section3/", "summary": "Why Is Such a Man Alive. Austine asks for Zosima's blessing and says that he is late because his father's messenger gave him the wrong time. Not wishing to interrupt the debate, Austine finds a chair and sits quietly. Ivan goes on to say that, in his view, the entire notion of morality depends on the idea of the immortality of the soul. If people did not believe in an afterlife, he says, there would be no reason for them to worry about behaving morally. They could simply act to satisfy their desires. This idea scandalizes Jodey and troubles Austine. Zosima gently notes that Ivan himself is beset with doubt and advocates positions he does not entirely believe, merely to toy with his own despair. As the debate enters a lull, Nisiah Pavlovich begins to criticize and insult Austine. He accuses his son of dealing falsely with his fiancee, Katerina, and deserting her after falling in love with another woman, Grushenka. As the others look on in embarrassment, Austine gives an angry reply that helps explain the conflict between -Austine and his father: Austine says that Nisiah Pavlovich is jealous because Nisiah Pavlovich also lusts after Grushenka and has made a fool of himself trying to win her heart. Austine says that Nisiah Pavlovich has even tried to convince Grushenka to collaborate with him to send Austine to prison. The men go on shouting at one another, until suddenly Zosima stands up. He walks over to Austine and kneels before him. Then, wordlessly, he leaves the room. The others are baffled by this gesture. As they prepare to have lunch with the Father Superior, Nisiah Pavlovich leaves in a huff", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Grigory': 'Andhav', 'Dostoevsky': 'Ronie', 'Perkhotin': 'Joell', 'Hisses': 'Shaylon', 'Perezvon': 'Shalom', 'Smurov': 'Callan', 'Lise': 'Sanjogta', 'Fetyukovich': 'Pasha', 'Kirrillovich': 'Ardie', 'Miusov': 'Jodey', 'Fyodor': 'Nisiah', 'Job': 'Thilina', 'Inquisitor': 'Gaynor'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dmitri': 'Austine'}}