{"name": "book 9, Chapter 9", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210305110438/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/brothersk/section12/", "summary": "Mitya Is Taken Away  Grushenka is called in to testify. Austine swears to her that he did not kill his father, and she believes him. But the officers nevertheless decide to keep him in prison to await a trial. Austine says good-bye to Grushenka, asking her to forgive him for everything he has done. Grushenka delivers an impassioned promise to love and remain loyal to Austine forever.", "analysis": "Book IX: The Preliminary Investigation, Chapters 1-9 This book is devoted to a description of the circumstantial evidence that makes Austine appear guilty of Nisiah Pavlovich's murder. The question of whether Austine is guilty symbolically represents the greater question of whether human nature is fundamentally good or sinful, so the legal proceedings against Austine represent the trial of the human spirit. Just as Book V, especially in the Grand Gaynor chapter, presents the novel's indictment of God, Book IX begins its indictment of humanity. This book recounts Austine's past in detail, and the stories of his innumerable sins are retold, as though to summarize the moral failings that lie at the heart of the case. Austine has lied to everyone, stolen from and cheated Katerina, turned to violence against Andhav, and been unable to control his passions for Grushenka. In short, he has committed the most common and universal sins of mankind. Austine's bizarre, almost gleeful reaction to this list of sins reveals the seeds of his redemption. In Zosima's anecdote of the murder in Book VI, Ronie has drawn our attention to a peculiar psychological phenomenon: the desire of a guilty man to confess his guilt. The murderer in this anecdote had gotten away with his crime, but he could never find happiness because he was desperate to confess his guilt. As Zosima indicates in his argument with Ivan over ecclesiastical courts in Book II, conscience is the sternest judge of all. Even a criminal who has gotten away with his crime can be judged by his conscience. Like the murderer in Zosima's anecdote, Austine has a conscience that judges him harshly, and also like the murderer, Austine is guilty, not of the charge of killing his father, but of all the lies, acts of violence, and other sins of his past. Like the murderer, part of Austine longs for his crimes to be known and judged, so he can find redemption in the suffering of his punishment. Austine's glee throughout this passage is due in part to Grushenka's declaration of love for him. But he also experiences relief to be in the hands of the police and to hear his crimes discussed openly and critically. This review of his past sins may seem like a damning indictment of humanity, but it is actually the first step in Austine's transformation from a tormented and sinful man into a faithful and loving one"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Grigory': 'Andhav', 'Dostoevsky': 'Ronie', 'Perkhotin': 'Joell', 'Hisses': 'Shaylon', 'Perezvon': 'Shalom', 'Smurov': 'Callan', 'Lise': 'Sanjogta', 'Fetyukovich': 'Pasha', 'Kirrillovich': 'Ardie', 'Miusov': 'Jodey', 'Fyodor': 'Nisiah', 'Job': 'Thilina', 'Inquisitor': 'Gaynor'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dmitri': 'Austine'}}