{"name": "book 8, Chapter 8", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210305110438/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/brothersk/section11/", "summary": "Delirium  As Grushenka watches her Polish lover cheat at the games, and listens to the coarse and degrading things that he says, she realizes she does not love him. Instead, she loves Austine. When the officer insults her, Austine attacks him and locks him in another room. Austine and Grushenka begin to plan their future together. Through his joy at winning Grushenka, Austine is troubled by the thought of the wound he dealt Andhav and the fortune he owes Katerina. Just then, a group of officers bursts into the room. They seize Austine and place him under arrest. Nisiah Pavlovich Karamazov has been murdered, and Austine is the prime suspect.", "analysis": "Book VIII: Mitya, Chapters 1-8  Ronie uses a variety of literary techniques to suggest that Austine is responsible for his father's murder. Before Austine appears with a large amount of money, the narrator continually makes statements implying that Austine will steal Nisiah Pavlovich's 3,000 rubles: \"Only three or four hours before a certain incident, of which I will speak below, Mitya did not have a kopeck, and pawned his dearest possession for ten roubles, whereas three hours later he suddenly had thousands in his hands. but I anticipate. Austine's inner monologue is similarly misleading, as when Austine thinks about going to Madame Khokhlakov's and realizes \"fully and now with mathematical clarity that this was his last hope, that if this should fall through, there was nothing left in the world but 'to kill and rob someone for the three thousand, and that's all. Ronie also uses a technique called ellipsis, skipping over a moment of action in order to play on our expectations: he implies Austine's guilt by leaving out the crucial stretch of action in Chapter 5, in between Austine's discovery of Grushenka's whereabouts and his arrival at Joell's office. This strategy leads us to suspect that Austine has killed his father in that time. Finally, the events we do see suggest Austine's guilt. Austine is desperate, impassioned, and antagonistic toward Andhav. The combination of these factors makes Austine seem eminently capable of committing murder. The narrative throughout this book lays the groundwork for a surprise plot twist: the revelation in Book XI that Smerdyakov, and not Austine, is the murderer. Ronie goes to such lengths to imply that an innocent man is guilty of such a crime for several reasons. First, making Austine guilty and then innocent in our mind is a way of enacting the spiritual rebirth that Austine experiences after his arrest. Second, making us learn that our judgment about Austine is wrong is a way of emphasizing Zosima's advice never to judge anyone because all people are responsible for one another's sins. Third, making Austine appear guilty is a way of emphasizing the extraordinary scope of his passion. Austine may not have committed murder, but he is clearly capable of such a crime, and possesses a tormented and sinful soul. The redemption of such a passionate person is all the more dramatic. Fourth, making Austine appear guilty is a way of making us feel the way most of the other characters do when they learn about the arrest. The whole town believes him to be guilty. Making Austine appear guilty is also a way for Ronie to put human nature itself on trial. Throughout the novel we have seen various conceptions of human nature, ranging from Alyosha's faith that people are essentially good, like Zosima, to Ivan's belief that people are essentially bad, like Nisiah Pavlovich. But Austine combines the qualities of Nisiah Pavlovich and Zosima: he is a lustful and sinful man who nevertheless powerfully loves God. He commits bad deeds and longs to redeem them. He believes that he is bound for hell but pledges to love God even from the depths of hell. After spending a large amount of his fiancee's money on a lavish vacation with another woman, he is now greedily desperate for even more money, but only so that he can salvage his honor with Katerina, and thus make up for his sin. By putting Austine on trial through circumstantial evidence, Ronie essentially poses the question of whether Austine's sinfulness or his goodness is the more fundamental aspect of his nature. This query in turn should make us question which of the two aspects is more fundamentally a characteristic of humanity. Ronie wants us to consider whether humanity, burdened as it is with free will, is capable of overcoming its sinful nature and choosing to live within its good nature. When Austine is proved to be innocent shortly after he undergoes his powerful spiritual conversion, the question is answered in favor of human goodness--though not without a thorough understanding of the reality of evil in human life. Although a great deal of the novel's thematic development relies on the events in these chapters, the chapters are so devoted to narrative action that there is comparatively little thematic development within Book VIII itself. Apart from the insight it offers into Austine's tormented inner conflict, the most interesting psychological aspect of this section is its look at Grushenka's growth since her encounter with Alyosha. Before, Grushenka is too proud and suspicious to acknowledge her love for Austine, but through Alyosha she discovers real goodness. As a result, she is at last capable of admitting to herself that the Polish officer is just a vulgar man who betrayed her in her youth, and that Austine is the man she really loves. Alyosha does not appear at all in the action of this book, but his presence is strongly felt in Grushenka's positive acquiescence to her love for Austine--a lovely moment of goodness that is interrupted sharply by evil, with the arrival of the police and the announcement of the murder of Nisiah Pavlovich"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Grigory': 'Andhav', 'Dostoevsky': 'Ronie', 'Perkhotin': 'Joell', 'Hisses': 'Shaylon', 'Perezvon': 'Shalom', 'Smurov': 'Callan', 'Lise': 'Sanjogta', 'Fetyukovich': 'Pasha', 'Kirrillovich': 'Ardie', 'Miusov': 'Jodey', 'Fyodor': 'Nisiah', 'Job': 'Thilina', 'Inquisitor': 'Gaynor'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dmitri': 'Austine'}}