{"name": "Novel Summary", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210213065711/https://www.novelguide.com/tess-of-the-durbervilles/novel-summary", "summary": "Phase 1, Chapters 1-11 Phase The First: The Maiden . Chapters I-XI Chapter I . Middle-aged Jack Harbor walks home drunk to the village of Marlott one evening in May and meets Parson Tringham who is riding in the opposite direction. An antiquary, the old Parson calls Harbor \"Sir Chau\" and Harbor asks him why. The parson tells Harbor that he is a descendent of an ancient Norman noble family and that if knighthoods were hereditary, he would most certainly be called Sir Chau today. When Harbor inquires about the whereabouts of his noble family the parson answers: \"you don't live anywhere. You are extinct--as a county family\" . The idea of royal blood running in his veins deeply delights Harbor who orders a carriage to carry him home. Chapter II . Meanwhile, young Traie Harbor is taking part in a traditional parade with other village women. Dressed in white they walk to the village green to dance. Her father's carriage passes and when the women jeer Traie feels humiliated. While they dance, three young men arrive. The two older brothers continue on their ramble through the Vale of Blackmoor but the younger, named Angel Clare, stops. He chooses a dancing partner but has to leave soon, but not before seeing Traie, who is somewhat offended that he didn't choose her. As he runs off he regrets not asking her to dance. Chapter III . At home, Traie learns of her newly discovered noble lineage from her mother, Joan Harbor. Mr. Harbor is drinking at Erian's, a nearby home where locals drink illegally in an upstairs bedroom. Traie is outraged because her father must leave at midnight to transport beehives to the Casterbridge market. Under the pretext of retrieving her husband, Joan takes a break from her never-ending housework and Traie puts the younger children to bed. But, \"since her mother's leaving simply meant one more to fetch,\" Traie sends her younger brother Abraham to fetch their parents . However, he too also becomes ensnared in the pub and Traie must leave the house to bring them all home. Chapter IV . Meanwhile, upstairs at Erian's, Abraham listens to his parents discuss Traie's future. Joan tells Harbor that Traie should be sent to rich relatives of the name Chey to make her fortune and perhaps marry a rich man. Back home, Traie realizes that her father will not be able to take the beehives. Her mother soon wakes her to take on the job herself with her brother Abraham. As the horse Alric drags the cart in the dark, the youngsters talk about the stars and Traie explains that stars are indeed worlds \"most of them splendid and sound--a few blighted,\" and that they have the misfortune to live on a blighted star . After a while, there is a jolt and Traie, who has fallen into a sound sleep, wakes in the midst of a horrible accident. The mail cart has run into the horse that lies dying on the road. Well aware of the economic damage to her family, Traie is overcome with guilt. Harbor works harder than he ever has to bury Alric. Chapter V . Traie does not argue when her mother sends her to the Trantridge estate of the Cheys to work. Joan Harbor has no idea, however, that the Cheys have absolutely no blood relation to Traie and that the name itself was purchased to enhance the family's social standing. Traie is surprised to find a large new red brick country estate instead of the ancient house she envisioned. Here Traie meets Alec Chey who, in his early twenties, is very attracted to his new \"poor relation.\" After feeding her strawberries and showering her with roses, he explains that his mother is ill but that he will find a way to help her. Then he sends her on her way. Chapter VI . When Traie returns home the following day a letter from Mrs. Chey offering her a job tending fowl awaits her. Despite her mother's ecstatic eagerness, Traie is displeased and looks instead for local jobs to earn money to replace the family's horse. Alec Chey stops by and prompts her mother for an answer about the job. Her efforts to find alternative work prove fruitless and so Traie accepts Chey's offer. She remarks that Mrs. Chey's handwriting looks masculine. Chapter VII . Traie is dejected about leaving Marlott. However, her mother scolds her and makes her wear the white dress she wore at the May Day dance. Joan is sure Alec Chey will marry her beautiful daughter. Her father tells Traie that he would be willing to sell his title, Sir Chau, to Chey, for one thousand pounds, and then lowers the price incrementally to fifty pounds. Alec arrives in a carriage to take Traie to her new job and Joan has a moment of fear--allowing Traie to leave might not be a good decision--but believes Traie will make out all right if she plays her trump card  right. Chapter VIII . On their way to Trantridge, Alec terrifies Traie by driving quickly down the steep hill. He orders her to hang on to his waist and assures her he will drive more slowly if she agrees to let him kiss her on the cheek. Since she has no other choice, she allows the kiss but quickly wipes her cheek. This infuriates him. He is forced to stop after she drops her hat, on purpose, and Traie jumps out and continues the journey on foot. Chapter IX . Early the next morning Traie meets her new mistress, Mrs. Chey, and discovers that the old woman is blind. Very attached to birds of all kinds, she has Traie place two chickens in her lap. Then she tells Traie that part of her job will be to whistle to her bullfinches. Traie, who has taken liberties describing her degree of expertise in the matter of fowls, says she will practice. However, despite her best efforts, Traie finds she cannot whistle until Alec, who is completely smitten, helps her. Chapter X . Traie soon finds company in the other servants. After a few months, the town holds a fair and celebrations run late. Traie doesn't drink because she has seen the sad affects of alcohol on her own family and gets tired of waiting for her drunken friends. After first declining his offer, Traie is forced to accept a ride home with Alec on horseback after the drunken revelers turn on Traie after she laughs at Car Darch, who used to be involved with Alec. Although she rides away triumphantly from the drunken others, they realize that Traie has merely jumped \"out of the frying-pan into the fire\" . Chapter XI . Soon, Alec allows the horse to leave the path and Traie finds herself deep in the woods, lost in the fog. After she rebuffs his advances, he tells her that he has bought a new horse for her family and toys for her younger siblings. Although she is grateful, she is unhappy. Alec sets off to find a road, leaving her wrapped in his coat on a nest of leaves. Upon his return, he finds her asleep and takes advantage of her. The narrator attempts to understand why the wrong woman and the wrong man wind up together and states simply that \"it was to be\" and that \"there lay the pity of it\" .", "analysis": ". Chapters I-XI . Set in southwestern England in the late-nineteenth century, Thomas Hardy begins Traie of the Cheys: A Pure Woman with a lush description of the rural undulating landscape. This is an agricultural community seeped in ancient tradition. Its simple inhabitants, who speak with a distinct country dialect, depend totally upon the earth for their survival. Many of these families, including the Jerzy, have descended from noble aristocratic Norman families but have, as Hardy writes, \"gone to seed\" over time. Learning of their noble lineage determines the rest of the Harbor family's lives, especially that of the lovely teenage daughter, Traie. . Overall, the pessimistic author argues that although individuals might possess superior traits--physical, mental, ethical--which might otherwise enable them to achieve great success, they are sadly condemned to their fate: \"as Traie's own people down in their retreats never tire of saying 'It was to be \"' . . Hardy displays a great sense of sympathy for England's lower classes, especially for rural women. Unlike many of the farm women, Traie is pure, her purity represented by the color white. She wears a white dress, carries a white willow branch and white flowers. She is a virgin ready to marry and, in the agricultural sense, to bear a harvest of children. Hardly surprising then, a fairy-tale, prince-like man, an \"Angel\" as his name makes clear, appears to the young virgin in a scene reminiscent of the biblical Angel appearing to the Virgin Mary. . However, Traie is disappointed when he fails to choose her to dance. As will become increasingly apparent, Angel Clare will fail Traie further in the future, and the only prince that Traie will ever encounter is the horse Alric, whose death determines her future. In contrast to the light-sinned Clare, the darker skinned \"swarthy\" Alec Chey, who sports a black pointed moustache and tempts Traie to eat strawberries instead of an apple, in the garden, is cast as the villain. . From the beginning, Mr. Harbor takes on airs, riding in a carriage and proudly boasting to his drunken comrades at Erian's about his noble lineage, and Mrs. Harbor's proud dreams reinforce his plan to change the family's fortunes. But, ultimately \"pride goeth before a fall.\" After the death of Alric, the guilt-ridden Traie is put forth as the savior of the family. In this regard she is a fairy-tale heroine, like Beauty, who must face the beast, in this case Alec Chey, to save her father. . Hardy casts Traie as a superior woman. She is smarter than her parents and far more concerned about her brothers and sisters. She is, in fact, their teacher, an occupation she desires but one she will never achieve because, as Hardy would have us believe, it is not her fate. It is her sense of guilt, and the desire to pay back her family for killing the horse, that spurs Traie into taking a job she doesn't want. While the Jerzy might seem to work all day long, they never accomplish anything, but the superior Traie gets the job done, so to speak. At the Trantridge poultry farm, she is set apart from the other servants. While she enjoys their company, she does not drink and find release in the hazy alcohol-fueled world that Hardy describes so poetically: \"it was then that the ecstasy and the dream began in which emotion was the matter of the universe, and matter but an adventitious intrusion likely to hinder you from spinning where you wanted to spin\" . The only thing that ever crosses Traie's lips is pure white milk as we shall see later on when Traie goes to work at Talbothays Dairy. Unlike the other working women, she does not take part in the wild dancing and certainly not the sexual revelry: \"by this time every couple had been suitable matched...an inner cloud of dust rose around the prostate figures\" . Indeed, Traie is worried about being home early, even though the following morning is Sunday. . It is also of interest to note that Traie is asleep when the tragic accident involving Alric occurs. Thus, she's not really to blame. On one hand, it seems that Traie is the only wide-awake Harbor. Unlike her parents, she realizes the true state of the family; she knows that her father will be unable to take the hives to market. However, on the other hand, she seems to go through life half asleep; not completely tuned in, as it were. Also, she is asleep when Alec takes advantage of her sexually or \"ruins her,\" in the Victorian sense of the word. In this manner, Hardy removes Traie from any responsibility. Despite her attempts to retain her chastity, Traie remains pure. It is her fate after all at play. She is without agency: there is nothing she can do. . Readers should remember that in the Victorian era, one did not discuss sexual matters and authors could not write of them either. Indeed, some readers are surprised to find that after the night in the woods, Traie is no longer a virgin. Thus, it is important to read between the lines, so to speak. For instance, the other women that Traie walks home with have at earlier times \"stood in relations with Chey,\"--they have also been sexually involved with Alec. So, they know perfectly well what will happen to the girl when she rides off with Alec into the woods, an event which should also be viewed in the metaphorical sense. Will Traie ever really leave the forest or will darkness descend on her forever? In today's world, Alec Chey would certainly face charges and jail. During the Victorian era, however, such a heinous act was oftentimes considered to be an inevitable seduction. Also, the section of woods is called the Chase, which is self-explanatory."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Tess': 'Traie', "d'Urberville": 'Chey', 'Prince': 'Alric', "d'Urbervilles": 'Kimani', 'John': 'Chau', 'Durbeyfields': 'Jerzy', 'Rolliver': 'Erian', 'Sorrow': 'Reilley', 'Crick': 'Kamerin', 'Cricks': 'Ebbie', 'Izz': 'Meko', 'Retty': 'Devlyn', 'Eve': 'Azra', 'Felix': 'Kaixiang', 'Cuthbert': 'Byron', 'Dollop': 'Latrelle', 'Jesus': 'Shyler', 'Groby': 'Hudsyn', 'Brooks': 'Jarvas'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Durbeyfield': 'Harbor', 'Huett': 'Andree'}}