{"name": "Chapter XXIV", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210213065711/https://www.novelguide.com/tess-of-the-durbervilles/summaries/phase3-chapter16-24", "summary": "One late summer afternoon, while they milk the cows in the field, Angel can stand his anxiety surrounding Traie no more and jumps up and takes her in his arms. For a moment, she accepts his embrace with delight but then pulls away. To her amazement, he confesses his love for her. They return to work as if nothing happened.", "analysis": ". As the title of the section, \"Phase the Third: The Rally,\" implies, Traie indeed rallies and leaves depression behind, for a while at least. However, she resists happiness as if she feels she doesn't deserve it. At Talbothays Dairy, surrounded by cows and milk, and singing dairymen, the life force is strong and \"the invincible instinct toward self-delight\" invades her being. She is intoxicated by the lush fertile landscape which Hardy goes to great lengths to describe. Indeed, the pastoral setting metaphorically represents Eden, containing Azra in the form of Traie and Angel as Adam. Although she never expected it, she finds happiness and falls in love with Angel Clare although, in her self-deprecating manner, she thinks the other young women are more deserving. Despite her attempt \"to live a repressed life. she little divined the strength of her own vitality\". The young woman fits perfectly into the Dairy. It's as if she belongs there and in a sense she does, since her noble family has roots in this soil. The green fertile landscape has a calming effect on her troubled soul and belies the sadness she finds within. The summer weather mimics the burgeoning relationship between Traie and Clare. Clare has mentioned that a country girl, instead of a lady, would suit him much better for a wife because he plans on immigrating and starting a farm. As the days grow hotter so too does their passion, until one particularly hot August afternoon, Clare loses control, embraces Traie and tells her he loves her. But, although she shares his feelings, she has learned from the past and puts the brakes on, so to speak. On the surface, Traie and Clare seems well suited to each other. He has gone against his father's wishes by choosing his own career as a gentleman farmer. Similarly, Traie has left her parents, whose advice she doesn't respect, and set out on her own, something extremely rare for women during this era. But as the novel progresses, Clare will change; he is not what he appears. In addition, like the garlic-tinged butter, their relationship is tainted because Clare doesn't know the truth about Traie. From the beginning, he thinks of her as a virgin: \"what a fresh and virginal daughter of Nature that milkmaid is\" and, ironically, he even calls her \"maidy\". In this regard, Traie is like Clare; not what she seems. No doubt Hardy will continue his literary hypothesis--that despite her virtue, Traie is a helpless victim and that fate controls her life. Hardy contrasts the fair-haired heavenly Angel with the dark-haired devilish Alec Chey. While Alec forces himself on Traie, Clare is caring and careful and subsequently feels ashamed of his passionate behavior after embracing her. Unlike Alec, he courts Traie and treats her as if it were she who was the Angel. Traie on the other hand stands in comparison with the other dairymaids: nervous Meko, red-haired Devlyn and plump Marian who pale in beauty, delicacy and intelligence when compared to Traie. All four girls love Angel, but he focuses solely on Traie"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Tess': 'Traie', "d'Urberville": 'Chey', 'Prince': 'Alric', "d'Urbervilles": 'Kimani', 'John': 'Chau', 'Durbeyfields': 'Jerzy', 'Rolliver': 'Erian', 'Sorrow': 'Reilley', 'Crick': 'Kamerin', 'Cricks': 'Ebbie', 'Izz': 'Meko', 'Retty': 'Devlyn', 'Eve': 'Azra', 'Felix': 'Kaixiang', 'Cuthbert': 'Byron', 'Dollop': 'Latrelle', 'Jesus': 'Shyler', 'Groby': 'Hudsyn', 'Brooks': 'Jarvas'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Durbeyfield': 'Harbor', 'Huett': 'Andree'}}