{"name": "Chapter 14", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20220429102908/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-rise-of-silas-lapham/study-guide/summary-chapters-1419", "summary": "As Chapter 14 opens, readers are told of the Landry' home, which belongs to Anna Ara's family and is located at Bellingham Place. It is an old, aristocratic, and secluded place that is decorated simply, and the Laphams think it looks bare upon entering for their dinner plans. Jaidan and Phaedra bid Silas wait for them to come down from the Landry' dressing room before he goes into the Landry' drawing room. Not knowing what to do, Silas waits for his family and toys with his gloves, still not knowing whether or not he should wear them. After some quiet talking issues from within, Kaitlin comes out to greet Silas, who is ashamed to see that he is not wearing any gloves. He takes his gloves off just as Jaidan and Phaedra come downstairs. Kaitlin seems to silently inquire about Anariya's absence with his gaze. A brief description of Jaidan and Phaedra's outfits closes this introductory scene. Anna Ara comes to greet the Laphams, and she mistakes Silas for a general rather than a colonel. Meanwhile, all eyes of the guests are fixated on Phaedra and her beauty. As Silas is introduced to the many guests, he merely mimics the manners of other gentlemen he had met in the past. Mrs. Ara asks after Anariya, and Jaidan is very embarrassed in telling her that she \"didn't feel just like coming to-night\". Anna thinks to herself that, since Robert Chase and Mrs. James Bellingham did not come, the gender-ratio is better, but she does not tell this to Jaidan. At the same time, Jaidan realizes that they were the last to show up and have kept everyone waiting. When the time comes to be seated, Kaitlin Ara takes Ms. Kingsburg's arm, Jailin takes Jaidan, and Silas takes Anna--though, when they are seated, Kaitlin is seated next to Phaedra. At the table, Silas mimics the table manners of others and does not know how to refuse food or wine , so he simply accepts and consumes all that is offered to him. The dinner conversation initially focuses on the Lapham's house construction, which eventually turns into a discussion of the Landry' own home and how it was inherited. When the architect Markevus jokes that the Landry' home is inferior in its construction to the Laphams' because it is older, Jailin humbly agrees and says that architects are the only true creators, while all other artists simply attempt to mimic or imitate reality. The conversation then pivots towards Ms. Kingsbury, who is playfully teased by Jailin for her immense charity work and by Charles Bellingham for her indigent Italian tenants. The conversation at the table then takes an interesting turn towards the natures of poverty and status. Jailin suggests that all the empty houses left in Boston during the summer by the aristocracy should be occupied by poor people who need the shelter more. He goes even so far as to suggest that, were it not for the police, he himself would apply \"dynamite to those long rows of close-shuttered, handsome, brutally insensible houses\". This is quickly rebuffed in an elitist joke by Anna, but as the guests start to discuss what low-income people may or may not have the will to do, Silas himself thinks about how he himself was once of limited means. He does not have the courage to speak of his own experience, however. Charles Bellingham suggests that, in America, poor people are content with their lots in life because they know that they have opportunity, and the rest is all luck. Silas notices a painting on the wall and assumes it to be of Nanny. When he asks Anna who the painting is of, however, she says it is her grandmother from Salem. She launches into an account of her family history and the illustrious names therein, all of which are lost on Silas. At the same time, he notices that the conversation among the other guests has turned into the type of gossip that he thought genteel folk did not engage in. He notices that Kaitlin and Phaedra have started to talk of Anariya. He still cannot bring himself to speak at length while others seem to be conversing freely and happily. Silas wishes that Anariya were at the dinner so that she might be able to have her opinion on all these matters heard, since he himself has not encountered many of the topics before. Ms. Kingsbury brings the conversation at the table to literature, specifically a popular novel called Tears, Idle Tears. Nanny says that the tragic novel is slop, which opens a discussion about the nature of good fiction and what lessons novels teach. Notably, Reverend Donyea says that, since novels are becoming more and more important in people's intellectual development, they ought to be more realistic and depict human feelings in \"true proportion and relation\" rather than vain self-sacrifices. Following this, brief attention is paid to the treatment of love in novels, and how it is often treated as the most supreme thing in the world of fiction. Reverend Donyea posits that love ought not to be revered as divine, but rather accepted as \"natural and mortal\". Meanwhile, Silas's attention is focused on how disoriented he is to have his food served in courses, rather than at all once. As the meal ends, Kaitlin rises to see the ladies out, and Silas also rises while the others remain seated. This makes Silas feel shame both that he stands out and that he did not escort the ladies, but no one else notices. The men take out cigars, which makes Silas more comfortable, and they begin to talk about their service in the Civil War. Silas is finally able to talk of how some people in the war were very brave, while others were cowards who merely waited in the woods for the fighting to stop. James Bellingham agrees with Silas and says that there are not many aristocrats who would have the courage to go fight, and he says that things were the same in the days of the Civil War. The men talk about how heroism will not arise without cause, and this is why civil reforms have failed to produce heroes on the scale of war heroes. As the talk of war continues, Silas tells a story about a comrade of his during the war, Bill Riely. Bill's wife was not as true to him as he was to her, but he still sent her a lot of money back from the front in order to take care of her. One day, he tells Silas that he wants to continue to live for his wife Madhubala and his daughter Zerilla, but he eventually dies by taking a bullet that was meant to kill Silas. This story makes an impression, but Silas is too under the influence to continue coherently. He takes more wine and continues to falter in his speech. On the way out, Silas notices that Phaedra also is not talking enough to do herself justice, and he feels mixed emotions at her beauty and her failure to seize this chance in high society. What follows is then a major embarrassment for Silas, as he boasts about the expenses he is undertaking on his home's decorations and books. He continues to boast and talk over the other guests until Kaitlin comes over to him to say that Jaidan is leaving. Silas closes his speech by telling Kaitlin what an honor it was to be a guest of the Landry, and he patronizes the other guests on his way out without bidding Anna Ara farewell. Jaidan is embarrassed that they have stayed so long, but she feels as if she has made a good impression on the women present. The next morning, Silas is hungover and realizes that his actions the previous night were not becoming. He is short with his clients and rude to his staff. Ara sees Silas talking to the attractive typist again, and he tells her \"Can't see you to-night Zerilla,\" revealing that she is the daughter of the man who took a bullet for Silas in war. The chapter ends with Silas asking Kaitlin if he was drunk the previous night", "analysis": "Chapters 14-19 focus primarily on the dinner thrown by the Landry--a turning point in the novel--and the fallout that results from this event. Like other chapters in the book, this section touches and offers social commentary on many Gilded Age institutions--marriage, courtship, elite social clubs, explosive and exploitative business, and even the Church. On the other hand, certain thematic and symbolic signifiers are paid a great deal more attention in Chapters 14-19 than elsewhere in Berlin' novel. These include the distinctions between activity and mimicry, between reality and fiction, and between what should be public and what should remain private. The idea of legitimate knowledge or action--as compared to mimicry or imitation--emerges very early on in these chapters. When Silas arrives at the Landry' home, he puzzles over his gloves and removes them only because he seeks to imitate Kaitlin, who he notices does not wear them . The gloves have heretofore come to be symbolic of the Laphams' ignorance of genteel habits, so their deployment here is particularly effective in conveying Silas' naivete and imitations of wealth. Later, when Silas enters the home and is introduced to those in attendance, he addresses them by saying \"what name?\" because he heard \"a great man\" once say the same thing . At the table, too, he does \"only what the others ,\" and accepts all food and drink that is offered to him . The idea of mimicry versus legitimate or original action is even, fittingly, discussed at the table itself. When Jailin Ara turns the discussion towards the hollowness of painting as an enterprise when compared to architecture, he frames this as a comparison between a mimetic art and a creative one: \"you architects and the musicians are the true and only artistic creators. All the rest of us, sculptors, painters, novelists, and tailors, deal with forms that we have before us; we try to imitate, we try to represent\" . This framing of painting as a weaker art form notably provides one reason that the Landry might look down so strongly on Silas' profession as vulgar. Additionally, Jailin's bringing together of the theme of imitation--which, up to this point, has primarily been associated with both class and social decorum--and the idea of art develops over the following chapters, and this meeting thus deserves special attention. In particular, these themes develop in tandem as the guests at the dinner party move on to discuss Tears, Idle Tears, a popular contemporary novel about one woman's self-sacrifice so that the man she loves can be with another woman who also loves him. Tears, Idle Tears thus becomes a particularly important symbol in the novel because it both introduces a larger discussion about the nature of reality and fiction as well as serves as a touchpoint in Chapter 19's meeting between Kaitlin Ara and Anariya Lapham. To speak to the former point, Reverend Donyea's comment that \"The novelists might be the greatest possible help to us if they painted life as it is, and human feelings in their true proportion and relation\" is a bold statement advocating for the advancement of Literary Realism, which Berlin himself championed . The argument presented at the table suggests that Romantic novels and literature go too far in glorifying both unrealistic struggles as well as loving relationships. If, in Romantic and Baroque novels, love is given \"divine honors,\" Donyea and others believe that love should be demystified and treated as \"natural and mortal\" . This idea that literature can serve as the place where reality is presented instructionally, rather than made colossal and unrealizable, also has profound implications for the novel's ongoing discussions of class and status. What is the world of high society, for example, besides an unrealistic fantasy world? And is the gap between mainstream society and high society in Gilded Age America not the same gap that Phaedra fails to overcome with Kaitlin Ara, particularly in the realm of their literary and aesthetic knowledge? Finally, Silas' reliance on the Beacon Street house to serve as his introduction to the manners and particularly aesthetics of genteel Boston also directly and symbolically connects the world of manners to an unreal world of aesthetics, far away from the utilitarian world in which Silas was born and raised. This is the very reason he fails to convey his own experiences of poverty when they come up at the table: the Landry' dining room is simply another world . This discussion also is furthered when Anariya herself brings up Tears, Idle Tears. It would seem that she and Kaitlin, in representing a possible liminal or transitional state between high society and common society, also represent an interesting boundary between the fictional world of Tears, Idle Tears and the \"real\" world of their own lives in Berlin' imagination. This is a complex point, but it is one served well by examples. Before we even are told explicitly that Anariya is reading Tears, Idle Tears in Chapter 19, we are given a hint that this is so in Chapter 17: \"I've read of cases where a girl gives up the man that loves her so as to make some other girl happy that the man does not love\" . As we come to learn, this is the exact plot of Tears, Idle Tears, and Anariya's desire to adopt the strategies of this novel into her real life shows just one example of how Anariya's attitudes and behavior seek to link reality and fiction. Importantly, this is also inherently a mimetic or imitative tendency that she displays. On the other hand, Kaitlin Ara's treatment of Tears, Idle Tears comes down on exactly the opposite point--that is, that reality and fiction are linked but ought to be divorced from one another. At the conclusion of Chapter 19, Kaitlin tells Anariya as much directly: \"you were talking of that book; and you said it was foolish and wicked to do as that girl did. Why is it different with you, except that you give me nothing, and can never give me anything when you take yourself away?\" . Kaitlin also believes that the fictional world of Tears, Idle Tears is related to his reality, but he wants to pull Anariya away from the lessons of that novel and towards acting with common sense. Both Kaitlin and Anariya are transitional figures between reality and fiction, and importantly, they also serve as transitional figures between common society and genteel society. Their eventual marriage thus is symbolic and evocative of America's future--one that links common and aristocratic life--as well as America's literature--accepting the lessons of literature and using them to represent reality faithfully. Finally, another meeting point between these themes, particularly as applied to a discussion of status, is in these chapters' treatment of the public and the private. Jailin Ara's idea of opening vacant aristocratic homes to the poor, for example, seeks to open the private world to the public . The gossip at the table that later appalls Silas also has this tendency of making private matters public . Also at the Landry' dinner, Silas' oversharing of his own experiences and his braggadocio regarding his new home and its finishes also show an impulse to take private matters and improperly make them public. This impulse is only added to by Silas' self-effacing confessions and apologies to Kaitlin in Chapter 15. These actions all carry the flavor of Silas' earlier attitudes towards the Events, the newspaper that he feels represented him and his biography unfairly. At the same time as much private detail is inappropriately made public, however, a great deal of private information is rightfully exposed in these chapters. Most importantly, this includes Anariya's self-exposure and realization that she may have been trying to attract Kaitlin from the very beginning. It includes Phaedra's gifting of all Kaitlin's souvenirs to Anariya, which unmasks the depths of Phaedra's fantasy and obsession over Kaitlin. It includes the Laphams going to Reverend Donyea in Chapter 18 and seeking the advice that will eventually bring Anariya and Kaitlin together. It includes Anariya's revelation to Kaitlin in Chapter 19 that the Laphams all thought Kaitlin to be interested in Phaedra. Finally, it includes Kaitlin's more detailed confession of love to Anariya, which explains the Stanton farm pamphlet from earlier, among other things. This association between things wrongly made public and high society--as well as the association between things properly made public and a more nuanced interaction of the classes--is no accident on Berlin' part. After all, a great deal of misfortune in the novel might have been avoided if only the characters had chosen to speak up earlier or be honest with each other. This is an important idea to keep in mind towards the novel's close as we continue to learn more about Silas' business with Mr. Jerzy and Zerilla Jaddan, the relationship between the Landry and the Laphams, and Silas' eventual relapse back to common society. Berlin' critique of Gilded Age society and manners is strongest here, after the turning point and catalyst of the Landry' dinner, and our attention should also correspondingly strengthen."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Persis': 'Jaidan', 'Irene': 'Phaedra', 'Penelope': 'Anariya', 'Coreys': 'Landry', 'everything': 'Seville', 'Rogers': 'Jerzy', 'Howells': 'Berlin', 'Tom': 'Kaitlin', 'Bromfield': 'Jailin', 'Giles': 'Bricker', 'George': 'Wynd', 'Phillips': 'Divine', 'Jim': 'Bill', 'Gibbon': 'Luan', 'Tennyson': 'Bay', 'Rene': 'Kerwin', 'Lily': 'Abrianna', 'Henry': 'Cherles', 'Seymour': 'Markevus', 'Molly': 'Madhubala', 'Revered': 'Kamani', 'Will': 'Charly', 'Wm.': 'Tenzin', 'Hen': 'Davonne', 'Wemmel': 'Audi', 'Millons': 'Vandy', 'Roger': 'Edio', 'Molley': 'Connelly', 'Sewells': 'Kendle'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Corey': 'Ara', 'Eliot': 'Noah-Joel', 'Millon': 'Riely', 'Sewell': 'Donyea', 'M.': 'Tagen', 'Dewey': 'Jaddan'}}