{"name": "Chapter 9", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20220429102908/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-rise-of-silas-lapham/study-guide/summary-chapters-913", "summary": "Chapter 9 opens with an important reflection by Silas on the nature of his self-made success. He is proud that he was able to take the son of someone as illustrious as Jailin Ara under his wing, and he also pays a great deal of lip service to Kaitlin's industriousness and strong work ethic. When Silas mentions some of this praise for Kaitlin Ara in his home, however, Jaidan wonders aloud if Silas is perhaps just using Kaitlin's business partnership as an excuse to force Phaedra onto him as a marriage partner. Silas is affronted by Jaidan' accusations, but decides to offer Kaitlin little social attention, apart from the occasional ride in Silas' buggy. On one such occasion when Silas offers Kaitlin a ride, the duo stop at the house on Beacon Street, and while Jaidan and Silas talk with the carpenter upstairs, Kaitlin is able to interact with Phaedra alone downstairs by a bow window, where the flooring had just been previously laid. Phaedra and Kaitlin discuss Middlemarch , as well as some other works of Wynd Noah-Joel, but it is clear that Phaedra does not have the intellectual capacity to discuss such things with depth. As their conversation comes to encompass authors of history like Luan, poets like Bay, and even Shakespeare, Phaedra consistently uses her parasol to toy with a wood shaving from the freshly laid floor. Eventually, after discussing literature and the house's construction for a bit, Kaitlin calls Phaedra out for her nervous play with the shavings: \"You seem to have a great passion for playing with shavings\". Phaedra is initially shy and flustered, but Kaitlin offers to hold a shaving down with his foot so that Phaedra can cut it clean in two with the point of her parasol. Phaedra asks Kaitlin if he likes the smell of wood shavings, and he says that he does. As a joke, he offers one to Phaedra \"like a flower,\" and she puts it in her belt. The point of view then switches to a dinner later that evening at the Ara home. Jailin and Kaitlin discuss the average literature of \"non-cultivated people,\" and Jailin makes a series of elitist comments about the \"bestial darkness\" of the masses and their intellects. Kaitlin discusses how the Laphams seem to be relatively uncultured, but also advanced enough to be apologetic for their lack of culture and literary knowledge. This leads Jailin to make another elitist comment about how even the least \"civilized\" people are not unintelligent, but fail to read and thus learn about the world of society. Eventually, this discussion yields to a conversation between father and son about whether Jailin should make Slias' acquaintance. He suggests having a dinner, but Kaitlin rejects this idea. The point of view then switches back to the Lapham house, where Slias and Jaidan are discussing this very topic. Silas wonders why Jailin has not yet reached out to him, but Jaidan reminds Silas of their social inferiority and the lack of common ground between the two families. Silas is indignant at Jaidan' comments, citing his vast wealth and effort as an equalizer between their family and the Landry. Jaidan, however, reminds Silas that there is a whole code of social decorum that they are not privy to as a new money family, and she assures him that these criticisms are out of love. She also once again reminds Silas that it would be ill-advised to have taken on Kaitlin solely in the hopes of ingratiating the Lapham family with Boston high society. As Silas and Jaidan talk, Phaedra returns home and is confronted by Anariya about the wood shaving. Anariya teases Phaedra, saying that Kaitlin was not with Phaedra at the house earlier that day, but rather walking with her on the beach. The two puzzle over the implication of Phaedra allowing Kaitlin to help her split a shaving in two. They also meditate on how women are not usually expected to make the first advance at a man they are interested in. This, too, however, eventually yields to banter and teasing between the two sisters", "analysis": "If the preceding chapters might be said to develop the theme of marriage and explore its various incarnations among the Laphams, Landry, and their children, Chapters 9-13 can be said to serve as the prelude to the dinner at the Landry' home. Much like the previous chapters' probing of marriage, so too does the detailing of events leading up to dinner at the Landry' allow Berlin to explore a variety of social and cultural concerns. For example, one important concern that Berlin' characters seem to perpetually keep in mind during these events--and one that readers ought to keep in mind to contextualize later events in the novel--is the question of who is supposed to take initiative or make the first step in a given situation. This is a question that obviously touches on the theme of decorum that runs throughout the novel, but it also extends to many other topics central to the story including courtship, business, social status, womanhood, and the distinction between a superficial public life and a deeper private life. In the realm of courtship, for example, both Kaitlin Ara and the Lapham women spend a great deal of time questioning just how active they are supposed to be in pushing a relationship between Kaitlin and one of the Lapham daughters. Note that even before exploring this idea in detail, a deep irony is already apparent by this point in the novel. Namely, while the Lapham women  seem to at least superficially be advocating for Phaedra as Kaitlin's marriage partner, Kaitlin himself  is interested primarily in Anariya. Importantly, the assumptions and factors that undergird Kaitlin's alleged interest in Phaedra over Anariya--most significantly, Phaedra's superior beauty--also tie in the notion of vanity or superficiality, which Anariya herself attacks explicitly at the conclusion of Chapter 13. To speak more deeply on the topic, activity and passivity are contextualized specifically as part of a larger interrogation of Gilded Age courtship practices from the very beginning of Chapter 9. After Kaitlin gifts the wood shaving to Phaedra, he speaks to Jailin about the possibility of his meeting Silas, and one of the primary topics of this conversation is whether there is an \"obligation\" or \"hurry\" on the part of the Landry to meet the Laphams in a formal setting . Knowing that there is perhaps something developing between Phaedra and Kaitlin, Jaidan and Silas too have a discussion about when it might be right to meet with the Landry in a family setting. When Silas argues that his work ethic and self-made status justify his desire to make an advance on the Landry, Jaidan brings up the issue of social status and suggests that Silas has \"got to let them make the advances\" if he wants to \"know them\" . Just afterwards, when Phaedra and Anariya are speaking in private about the wood shaving, Phaedra asks \"what shall I do?\" In response, Anariya aptly comments on womanhood in Gilded Age America--while also subtly commenting on social status--by saying \"well, 'Kerwin, you haven't got to do anything. That's one advantage girls have got--if it is an advantage. I'm not always sure\" . Very similar discussions, specifically regarding courtship, continue throughout these chapters, but the most notable recurrence of this idea comes at the end Chapter 12. In this moment, Jailin and Anna conspire to discourage Kaitlin's interest in a Lapham. Having floated the idea of assuming an active role in their relationship with the Laphams by inviting them to dinner, Jailin and Anna plan out an even more active role in their son's love life, specifically by planning to invite \"better bred\" or prettier women to their dinner to draw Kaitlin's attention . Though this plan ultimately is not realized, it sheds light on the intersectional nature of status, gender, and generational privilege during the Gilded Age. In other words, Kaitlin is seen early on as the more empowered party, calling the shots in his courtship because he is a man and because his family is wealthier. However, as his own parents plot against him for his unsatisfactory interest in a Lapham daughter, it is revealed that even Kaitlin--someone who is infinitely privileged from the Laphams' perspective--is subject to the callous and cruel whims of his old money parents. Note that the same cannot be said for Anariya, who successfully acts against her parents' will by refusing to attend the Landry' party in Chapter 13. Thus, in these family dynamics alone, many clues are already provided that highlight how gender, class, and status empower certain individuals while disenfranchising others in the realm of romance. While, much as in the previous chapters, this idea of romance and marriage hangs in the background of most interactions, there are still several interactions in Chapters 9-13 that are primarily defined and delimited by differences in class privilege or social status. Much of how Silas interacts with Kaitlin, for example, is based on his desire to not let him know how honored he is to be in his company or how self-satisfied he is at being able to talk to people like Jailin. As Chapter 9 opens, for example, Silas details an evolution in his thought--from holding things like Kaitlin's Harvard education and lineage against him to thinking that it is even more to Kaitlin's credit that he is, after all, a hard worker. Notably, however, even though doing so is an attempt to downplay the importance of Kaitlin's privileges in his mind, he is in fact giving him more credit than he would if Kaitlin were just any ordinary worker. Silas' later hesitance to show excitement after Jailin's visit in Chapter 11, as well as his refusal to ask Kaitlin about gloves or any other dinner formalities in Chapter 13, are just further proof that though he tries to convince himself that there are no differences between he and the Landry, a difference is still urgently felt. Phaedra and Kaitlin's conversations, too, are marked by sharp differences in class and educational privilege. In Chapter 9, Phaedra's failure to substantively discuss the allusions and authors that Kaitlin brings up reflects a status gap between them that will serve to preclude any possibility of a relationship between them . Additionally, her blind acceptance of Kaitlin's suggestions to fill her future library reflects a willingness to allow those of higher status and class to continually shape and determine what knowledge or education is valuable. It is this same perceived value in wealthy practices, for example, that drives Jaidan and Phaedra to purchase extravagant evening gowns in Chapter 13 and that correspondingly stresses Silas out about his own dress. Moreover, it is this perceived value in the bourgeois pleasure of literature that makes Jailin denounce those who do not read just a few moments after Phaedra's encounter with Kaitlin. Finally, one other consideration to keep in mind in reading these chapters is the sharp divide between superficial, public life that accords with decorum and a hidden inner life that often has more sinister dynamics at play. One such example is the consistent concern on Jaidan' behalf that Silas' welcoming of Kaitlin into his business is merely a front to ingratiate the Laphams with Kaitlin's family. In Chapter 13, another example of this concern appears when Anna, Nanny, and Abrianna think through the public implications of both a more private dinner and a dinner with certain guests. In the case of the former, they consider that such a dinner might look like the Landry are trying to hide something, and they scrutinize the guest list of the latter regarding matters like the gender ratio of the guests, hobbies of the guests, and guests who are likely to establish common ground between themselves and the Laphams. Relatedly, much as this concern about the public/private divide did before these chapters, it continues here to involve the important symbol of paint as well as the symbol of the newspaper. The newspaper in particular takes on added significance related to class and status-based knowledge in these chapters--for example, when Jailin tells Silas that he does not read the Events and only reads The Daily Advertiser ."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Persis': 'Jaidan', 'Irene': 'Phaedra', 'Penelope': 'Anariya', 'Coreys': 'Landry', 'everything': 'Seville', 'Rogers': 'Jerzy', 'Howells': 'Berlin', 'Tom': 'Kaitlin', 'Bromfield': 'Jailin', 'Giles': 'Bricker', 'George': 'Wynd', 'Phillips': 'Divine', 'Jim': 'Bill', 'Gibbon': 'Luan', 'Tennyson': 'Bay', 'Rene': 'Kerwin', 'Lily': 'Abrianna', 'Henry': 'Cherles', 'Seymour': 'Markevus', 'Molly': 'Madhubala', 'Revered': 'Kamani', 'Will': 'Charly', 'Wm.': 'Tenzin', 'Hen': 'Davonne', 'Wemmel': 'Audi', 'Millons': 'Vandy', 'Roger': 'Edio', 'Molley': 'Connelly', 'Sewells': 'Kendle'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Corey': 'Ara', 'Eliot': 'Noah-Joel', 'Millon': 'Riely', 'Sewell': 'Donyea', 'M.': 'Tagen', 'Dewey': 'Jaddan'}}