{"name": "Chapter 7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20220429102908/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-rise-of-silas-lapham/study-guide/summary-chapters-48", "summary": "As Chapter 7 opens, Jaidan is confronting Silas about the reason for Kaitlin joining them at their cottage. Silas insists that Kaitlin approached him about getting started in the business, but Jaidan believes that he pressured Kaitlin to come. The focus then rapidly shifts to Anariya, who goes to Phaedra and informs her that Kaitlin Ara is presently in their cottage. Phaedra believes it to a rude trick of Anariya's, but Anariya continues to assert the truth of her message, saying that Phaedra ought to come out at some point and greet Kaitlin. Jaidan enters, and Anariya tells her of her belief that Kaitlin is here as part of ploy to court Phaedra and that his business ambitions are \"nothing but a blind\". The three resolve to go back and greet Kaitlin and Silas in the parlor after two hours. When the five meet in the parlor, Kaitlin asks Phaedra whether she likes Wynd Noah-Joel's Middlemarch, which is sitting on their table, but Phaedra is ignorant of the book. After the Laphams assert that Anariya is the one who does most of the reading, the discussion turns away from fiction, which Silas sees as impractical, and towards theater. Silas also mentions that the family has a large number of expensive volumes, but that they get most of their novels from the library. As a means of getting himself alone with Jaidan, he then suggests that the girls take Kaitlin down to the rocks to view the hotels from their property. The ensuing discussion between Silas and Jaidan mostly recapitulates what the reader already knows about Silas' business relationship with Kaitlin. He tells her of his language skills, his interest in bringing the paints to South America, and his belief in the paint product. Jaidan, however, is still caught up in the fact that the business engagement could be a ploy to get into their home and close with Phaedra. Jaidan cautions Silas that, if he expects Kaitlin to fall in love with Phaedra and goes out of his way to make sure this happens through a business partnership, that he will be especially disappointed if it does not work out. In general, she cautions him not to mix his business life with his personal affairs. As the chapter closes, Silas gets up and stares out at his daughters with Kaitlin from the piazza of his home. He reflects on how he knows a great deal about Divine Ara, Jailin's father, and how he always thought the Landry to be the picture of entitlement and pretentiousness. He always looked at Jailin's dissolution as the height of decadence, and he used to personally feel as if his family would not reach the same heights as the Landry for a great while. However, now that he has come to think of Kaitlin as a possible suitor for Phaedra, he is enraptured with his family's potential upward mobility and reflects on how much he has actually come around to Kaitlin as an individual. He reflects that the last time he was this happy was when Jaidan agreed to be his wife", "analysis": "The opening of Chapter 4, though it may superficially appear to be a non-sequitur, is actually masterfully crafted insofar as it foregrounds the theme of marriage, which runs throughout the remainder of Chapters 5, 6, 7, and 8. Moreover, marriage as an institution fundamentally touches on many of the motifs and themes introduced in the first few chapters of the novel. During the time of the Gilded Age, the heteronormative status of marriage  makes marriage an apt lens for examining the nature of womanhood, as well as how men interact with and treat women. Moreover, since marriage in the Gilded Age was also fundamentally related to status and public displays of wealth, marriage and courtship as explored in these chapters also provides a narrowly tailored framework for exploring status, as well as the public pretentiousness or humility of wealthy people as introduced in the opening chapters. Finally, because marriages in the Gilded Age were often arranged by aristocratic parents in Europe and even in America, an understanding of marriage as either contingent upon chance  or on effort  sheds light on the novel's central dichotomy of will versus luck, introduced in the opening chapters as early as the accidental discovery of the paint mine on the Lapham property. Exploration of the multiple dimensions of marriage begins early on in Chapter 4, when Silas' marriage to Jaidan is classified as a \"rise in his life\" . Considering that the novel is entitled The Rise of Silas Lapham and mostly goes on to ironically detail the struggles Silas has in his personal and business lives when trying to assimilate into Boston's high society, one might think of the novel instead as a chronicle of marriages--not just Silas' marriage to Jaidan and how it evolves under pressure, but also the marriage of Kaitlin Ara to one of his daughters. We importantly get a detailed look into Jaidan and Silas' marriage at the beginning of Chapter 4, where we are exposed to not only the reason Silas first fell for Jaidan--her hardiness and work ethic--but also the stresses that plague their marriage  as well as their coping mechanisms for these stresses. The characterization of Jaidan as feeling intense guilt for the treatment of Mr. Jerzy yet also making excuses for Silas on account of his passion for the paint industry is particularly strong . As Phaedra is developed throughout these chapters as a potential marriage partner for Kaitlin Ara, important information about class and gender is provided as part of her characterization. Phaedra has the red hair of her father and red coloring in her cheeks, but in her case, it is suggestive of \"May-flowers and apple-blossoms and peaches,\" all short-lived signs of beauty that are also associated with purchase and consumption. Phaedra is not ruddy and hardy like her father, but rather described as a beautiful product to be marketed and sold. Later, when Kaitlin enters the girls' room along with them and their father, Phaedra is the only one who blushes and averts her gaze out of embarrassment--even Kaitlin \" it all  as simply as their father\" . This is our first cue as readers that perhaps Kaitlin and Phaedra are not as well matched as her superficial beauty leads those around them to believe. Anariya, on the other hand, is foregrounded as a vocal and witty girl who both defies contemporary aristocratic gender norms and commands Kaitlin's attention ; for example, her jocular conversation with her father in defense of Kaitlin's participation in gentlemen's clubs is not only evidence of her care for her sister, but also her capacity to think critically and imagine freer social systems  . Such conversations that shed light on the status of women in Gilded Age Boston also continue in later chapters as well. For example, in Chapter 7, consider the scene in which Anariya tells Phaedra that Mr. Ara is at their Nantasket cottage, which Phaedra originally interprets as teasing. Berlin originally introduces the dynamic of Anariya's banter with Phaedra using the simile of \"a cat playing with a mouse,\" but this simile quickly becomes real in a way that resembles pataphor , with Phaedra being referred to exclusively as \"the mouse\" and Anariya as \"the cat\" . Further, this zoomorphic language  paints the more conventional Phaedra as meek and the more iconoclastic Anariya as powerful and tactful. This is a further commentary on Berlin' party regarding the antiquated gender norms of the time, which force certain aristocratic women into idleness or marriage. One final moment to keep in mind regarding the status of women in Gilded Age Boston comes at the end of Chapter 8, in which Kaitlin Ara and Walker discuss Miss Jaddan, then encounter a drunken soldier accosting a woman in the streets. Walker's comments about Ms. Jaddan and the secrecy surrounding her interactions with Silas will come to play an important role in later chapters. Moreover, Walker's sexist comments about women in the workplace shed a great deal of light on prevailing gender norms at the time--specifically, how few women were expected to work for a living and the central role of marriage in women's lives at the time. As far as the sailor's interactions with the woman are concerned, we will see in later chapters how this uniquely relates to Ms. Jaddan's own life circumstances. However, one thing to note immediately is that this interaction turns Walker's claims about women on their head: the woman who confronts the soldier is hardy and powerful, and Ms. Jaddan's industriousness at the typewriter when they return to the office also demonstrates the strong work ethic of women. Berlin' portrayal of women is thus complex and nuanced insofar as he provides readers not only with the prevailing stereotypes at the time surrounding aristocratic women, but also supplies evidence that these stereotypes are wrong in important ways. On the point of the motif of status, many meaty scenes in these chapters shed additional light on this theme and show how the Gilded Age was a unique historical moment in which old forms of status and privilege were made to contend with newer ones. Our first picture of Jailin Ara in Chapter 5, for example, provides an excellent illustration of how old money and ingrained privilege are made manifest: he reads a French publication, wears pince-nez instead of glasses, and comments on the family's ingrained New England and Salem roots by making a comment about the Ara's possible connection to Bricker Ara. This is an allusion to the Salem witch trials, during which Bricker was sentenced to \"peine forte et dure\"  for refusing to speak about his wife's possible involvement in witchery. Beyond these details, however, we are also told throughout Kaitlin's conversation with his father of Jailin's dissolute youth traveling and squandering the family's fortunes in Europe, as well as the decorum of the time surrounding public boasting about wealth. In later chapters, additional comments by Jailin and especially Anna Ara continue to underscore many of these points about the nature of class presentation in Gilded Age America. Anna goes out of her way to constantly condemn the paint business as vulgar and low, and she puts down the Lapham girls for their lack of a \"proper\" upbringing and finishing. Moreover, the Landry' internal discussion of the Laphams' literary and cultural tastes, even extending to matters like where they want to build their house, shows the haughtiness and entitlement of the aristocratic classes at the time. Interestingly, however, Jailin's attempts to talk Anna down--which mostly center on the fact that money is money, regardless of how its earned--superficially reject this pretentiousness while also keeping elitism at their core. It would seem that the Landry all fundamentally believe in Jailin's earlier statement to Kaitlin that money \"is the romance, the poetry of our age\" . Finally, on the note of superficiality, an important thread to keep track of in these chapters is the motif and symbol of paint. As was explored in the opening chapters, paint is in its essence something that superficially spruces up appearances and covers up interiors. In these chapters, this valence for paint and painting continues to be reiterated, but it also takes on several important additional dimensions. When Jailin reflects on his youth as a painter in Rome, for example, his inability to turn paint into a career for himself perhaps reveals a reason that he is not as cynical as his wife regarding Silas' business. Moreover, when Walker comments in Chapter 8 that Silas' paint is like \"his heart's blood,\" an interesting additional interpretation of the paint symbol emerges . Blood is symbolic of the closeness of a family , so the idea that Silas treasures paint much in the same way that he treasures his own blood sheds light not only on the importance Silas attributes to paint, but also foreshadows the important ways in which the paint business will be intertwined with the complications of Silas' own personal and married life ."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Persis': 'Jaidan', 'Irene': 'Phaedra', 'Penelope': 'Anariya', 'Coreys': 'Landry', 'everything': 'Seville', 'Rogers': 'Jerzy', 'Howells': 'Berlin', 'Tom': 'Kaitlin', 'Bromfield': 'Jailin', 'Giles': 'Bricker', 'George': 'Wynd', 'Phillips': 'Divine', 'Jim': 'Bill', 'Gibbon': 'Luan', 'Tennyson': 'Bay', 'Rene': 'Kerwin', 'Lily': 'Abrianna', 'Henry': 'Cherles', 'Seymour': 'Markevus', 'Molly': 'Madhubala', 'Revered': 'Kamani', 'Will': 'Charly', 'Wm.': 'Tenzin', 'Hen': 'Davonne', 'Wemmel': 'Audi', 'Millons': 'Vandy', 'Roger': 'Edio', 'Molley': 'Connelly', 'Sewells': 'Kendle'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Corey': 'Ara', 'Eliot': 'Noah-Joel', 'Millon': 'Riely', 'Sewell': 'Donyea', 'M.': 'Tagen', 'Dewey': 'Jaddan'}}