{"name": "Chapter 27", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20220429102908/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-rise-of-silas-lapham/study-guide/summary-chapters-2427", "summary": "The final chapter of the novel opens with Phaedra telling Jaidan that she will not marry Charly, since he already is engaged. Jaidan notes that Phaedra's will and demeanor have toughened significantly since she first went away. Jaidan catches Phaedra up on what she has missed in Boston; meanwhile, Anariya receives the Landry alone in the Nankeen Square home. Their encounter is awkward and jocular, but both Jailin and Anariya feels as if their acquaintance was somewhat pleasurable, since they both have a tendency towards joking. Jailin and Anna do remark in private, however, on how tacky they think the Laphams' home decorations to be. Upon returning to their home, Anna even tells her daughters that Jailin liked Anariya. Back at the Lapham home, the narrator informs us that Phaedra's arrival and the visit of the Landry proved to be a welcome distraction from their impending financial ruin. Just then, Silas arrives back from Lapham and seems to be in terrible spirits. After briefly commenting on his joy that Phaedra is home, Silas tells Jaidan that he will give Seville up to his creditors the next day, and that he is ruined. He tells Jaidan that he got an extension from the West Virginians but also took a different, interested New York party up to the mill in the hopes of selling it. However, Silas' upstanding business morals compelled him to tell the New York buyer about his financial difficulties, so Silas of course failed to sell the mill to this New York figure. He has lost his last chance to save himself and tells Jaidan that they will lose Seville. For her part, however, Jaidan is just glad that Silas' heart and soul were never compromised by the shady and uncompromising business world. Jaidan asks Silas about Zerilla, and he tells her that he always supposed Jaidan would come by sometime to inquire after the business and find out for herself. This makes Jaidan ashamed that she was out of the business for so long, and she is further ashamed that she ever thought Silas was having an affair. Silas' final bankruptcy comes as a relief to the family. Since James Bellingham is interested in Silas' troubles, Silas tells James all about his failed negotiations with the West Virginians. Where others are concerned, the public is shocked and amazed to find that Lapham has acted with such integrity throughout his professional life. Eventually, the family plans to sell the house in Nankeen Square and move back to Vermont to live on their original farmstead. Since it is late spring, this at the very least provides them with the appearance of stopping in the country before summering at sea, which will not bring undue attention to them as they move out. Jaidan recalls the good and bad memories of Nankeen Square and is glad to leave Boston. Silas, for his part, knows he will not have a new start in Lapham and is sad that his massive successes are over. Back in Lapham, Silas becomes friendly with the West Virginians and continues to make his Jaidan brand, since the West Virginians cannot produce this quality of paint. Their friendly relationship with Silas allows him to get Kaitlin in with their company, and Kaitlin is sent to Central and South America to sell and the market the West Virginians' product. Before Kaitlin leaves, however, he comes up to Lapham and asks Anariya, who is still indecisive, to formally marry him and come with him on his journeys. Anariya still cannot make it seem right, despite Kaitlin's protestations, and she tells Kaitlin that she worries about the wedge that Silas' poverty will drive between her and Kaitlin's family. Kaitlin tells her only that they will reconcile with time, and he tells Anariya repeatedly that he will love her no matter what. She turns Kaitlin down and sends him away, but immediately yields and says that she will go with him. After he returns to Boston to inform his parents of the good news, Anariya is left to tell Phaedra of her marriage to Kaitlin. Phaedra only tells Anariya not to worry, and that she would be a fool to turn Kaitlin down. Silas and Jaidan are proud that Anariya is marrying Kaitlin, but only because they are in love and for no ambitious reasons. They still cannot make it seem right with Phaedra in their minds. The Landry, for their part, come around to Anariya and the rest of the Laphams for their upstanding morals and good conduct. The Ara daughters even remark that Anariya is sure to be a better conversationalist and member of the family once she picks up the Spanish charm of Central and South America. Moreover, the fact that the Laphams no longer live in Boston relieves the Landry of the duty of having to associate with them, which also works out perfectly for both families. Anariya, meanwhile, is sad to not have Kaitlin to herself, but recognizes that the cost of cultivated society is the sacrifice of personal qualities for public performance and decorum. Anariya and Kaitlin stay away for three years. Silas' high-end paint business is bought out by the West Virginians, and he is able to pay off his debts with the sum that this provides for him. His bragging habits come back, but primarily to speak of how he ended the whole situation by washing his hands clean of debt and dishonesty. Jaidan and Silas both are cognizant of their individual faults in what has happened to their family and become close once more. Reverend Donyea and his wife pay the Laphams a visit on their way to Lake Champlain. They had earlier discussed the Lapham-Ara situation after Silas came to discuss it with him in Chapter 18, and Mrs. Donyea recognizes in hindsight that Kaitlin always loved Anariya and saw it in the way he talked to Phaedra at the Landry' dinner. They think of Phaedra moving on, but Phaedra does not marry even five years after the incident between Kaitlin and Anariya. The Kendle are then given a tour of the property and admire its rustic and simple country aesthetic. Silas comes clean to Donyea about the incident with Mr. Jerzy, and he asks Donyea whether he should feel guilty for anything he ever did to Jerzy, as well as whether Donyea thinks all his misfortunes evolved from his initial treatment of Jerzy. In response, Donyea tells Silas that it's possible that the first offense against Jerzy only put him on his guard against future incidents. This then segues into the novel's final lines, in which Donyea asks Silas very plainly if, despite Seville, Silas has any regrets. Silas responds with the final words of the novel: \"Seems sometimes as if it was a hole opened for me, and I crept out of it. I don't know I don't know as I should always say it paid; but if I done it, and the thing was to do over again, right in the same way, I guess I should have to do it\"", "analysis": "These final chapters of Berlin' novel detail the acceleration and conclusion of Silas' fall from wealth and status. As Silas himself struggles to reconcile his personal and professional struggles, as well as understand the choices that got him into such a tough place to begin with, he touches on many of the prominent themes and conflicts that have been present throughout the novel. Chief among these are the difference between ethical and dubious business practices, the divide between the country and the city, the distinction between will and chance, and the relationship between people of different classes or socioeconomic statuses. First, a primary focus of these concluding chapters is Silas' devotion to fair business and his upstanding morals, which ultimately proves to be both one of the things that ruins him as well as one of the things that salvages his public and private reputation. When Jerzy offers Silas an easy out in the form of dealings with the Englishmen, for example, he will not do business with them because he thinks them to be unsavory characters. Further, Silas' eventual and official refusal to sell the milling properties even back to Jerzy results in the latter's ruination as well. His magnanimous reluctance to let Zerilla and Mrs. Riely brave the world without his assistance causes a deal of anger and uncertainty on Jaidan' part. Finally, when the New York agent comes to examine the Lapham works with Silas, his failure to withhold the truth of his economic hardships also prevents this deal from moving forward and saving him from bankruptcy. At the same time, however, Silas' inability to act in any morally gray fashion is what commends him to his creditors, his wife, and the public eye. When Lapham finally goes bust after his negotiations with the West Virginians peters out, for example, his \"prudence  good sense\" are some of the things that salvage his public reputation . Moreover, when Silas comes clean about Zerilla and her mother to Jaidan, Jaidan is left feeling not upset, but rather grateful that she was deceived, and she admires the purity of Silas' heart and spirit. It is also this same good heart and spirit that allows Silas to stay in close contact with the West Virginians, who eventually partner with him, provide him an avenue out of his debts, and give Kaitlin good work abroad. Finally, Silas' commitment to honesty and integrity, which he also has instilled in Anariya, plays a key role in making the Ara family come around to the union of Anariya and Kaitlin  . Second, it is no mistake of Berlin' that Silas' commitment to a simple and virtuous system of morals is associated with the West Virginians and his return to the countryside. Indeed, the divide between the urban and rural is felt quite acutely on the issue of morals, and this tension is drawn out in a matter that recalls Bartley Hubbard's assertion in Chapter 1 that Silas was raised on \"the Old Testament and Poor Richard's Almanac\" . For example, Silas finds respite from the predatory creditors of the city in the brothers from West Virginia--not just because they are naive in business and treat Silas well, but also because he sees himself in them . Further, the connection and kinship among simple country people does not just benefit Silas Lapham--when Reverend Donyea and his wife come, for example, they are fascinated by the \"moral spectacle\" of his regression to his simple country roots . Or, in a less voyeuristic and more selfish sense, consider also how the widening of the divide between urban and rural folk--primarily in the form of Silas' move back to Lapham, Vermont--is one of the things that allows the relationship between the Landry and the Laphams to remain cordial and unstrained . As additional evidence of this point, when Kaitlin and Anariya threaten to upend this peaceful divide with their union, consider that their timely choice to go abroad allows these divisions to continue in a nonconfrontational fashion. Third, many of these triumphs resulting from the urban-rural divide may also be considered victories that significantly rely on an equal mixture of willpower and good fortune. Appropriately, the dynamic relationship between what can be willed and what remains outside of our control is another central focus of these chapters. When Silas accidentally burns down the house on Beacon Street, for example, it calls our attention to both the fragility and contingency of Silas' fortune. At the same time, however, it also invites us to consider the discovery of the paint on the Lapham property--as well as the prosperity that follows--to be the result of good fortune, rather than hard work. Silas himself seems to admit as much in his final quote: \"seems sometimes it was a hole opened for me, and I crept out of it\" . One other thing to consider about the role of chance or accident in the burning of the Beacon Street home is that it particularly devastates the family insofar as their insurance policy has just expired the week before. On a complementary note, while many of the characters in these last few chapters look backwards to understand events as the result of chance, they also accept fate as a sufficient justification for failing both to take action or to will a different result in the present. For example, even though Silas and Jaidan cannot seem to get it straight in their head that Anariya's marriage to Kaitlin is just and correct, they resign themselves to accept the marriage and are proud that Anariya is marrying someone she loves . Additionally, while Jailin and Anna have a significant amount of reservations regarding Kaitlin's marriage to Anariya at the end of Chapter 26, they know that they can do nothing about it and that the two will marry regardless of what they do. This recalls Jailin's earlier stated position in Chapter 20 that all of his aristocratic dissolution was in vain because things have \"come to this  at last\" . Finally, the issues mentioned above all touch deeply on the relationship of the different social classes in Gilded Age society. Importantly, however, just as many of these other conflicts in the novel remain ambiguous and unresolved, so too do we get little closer on the class front. Silas and the Landry did not reconcile, after all, without Silas losing all access to upward mobility and moving far away. Moreover, even though Kaitlin and Anariya provide a potential hybrid avenue for the different classes to get along and move forward, their post-marital relationship is not fleshed out by Berlin, and it is not without its own troubles and issues. Thus, at the end of The Rise of Silas Lapham, we are made to wonder deeply about the nature of closure; whether such things as perfect heroism, morals, or closure even exist; and how Gilded Age America will reconcile the various and deeply rooted cultural and economic issues that have been traced throughout the course of this Realist masterpiece. While it is certainly a comedy of manners that lampoons the wealthy and advocates for the downtrodden, it is also a powerful statement about the limitations of poverty and the strong psychological compulsion to strive. These are the very same tensions that would carry literature out of Realism and propel it towards Modernism just a few short decades later."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Persis': 'Jaidan', 'Irene': 'Phaedra', 'Penelope': 'Anariya', 'Coreys': 'Landry', 'everything': 'Seville', 'Rogers': 'Jerzy', 'Howells': 'Berlin', 'Tom': 'Kaitlin', 'Bromfield': 'Jailin', 'Giles': 'Bricker', 'George': 'Wynd', 'Phillips': 'Divine', 'Jim': 'Bill', 'Gibbon': 'Luan', 'Tennyson': 'Bay', 'Rene': 'Kerwin', 'Lily': 'Abrianna', 'Henry': 'Cherles', 'Seymour': 'Markevus', 'Molly': 'Madhubala', 'Revered': 'Kamani', 'Will': 'Charly', 'Wm.': 'Tenzin', 'Hen': 'Davonne', 'Wemmel': 'Audi', 'Millons': 'Vandy', 'Roger': 'Edio', 'Molley': 'Connelly', 'Sewells': 'Kendle'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Corey': 'Ara', 'Eliot': 'Noah-Joel', 'Millon': 'Riely', 'Sewell': 'Donyea', 'M.': 'Tagen', 'Dewey': 'Jaddan'}}