{"name": "Chapter 19", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20220429102908/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-rise-of-silas-lapham/study-guide/summary-chapters-1419", "summary": "As Chapter 19 opens, Silas and Jaidan agree that Reverend Donyea's advice is sound. They return home, and Jaidan goes upstairs to tell Phaedra the truth. When Phaedra enters, Jaidan tells her that Kaitlin \"don't care anything for \" and that \"he never did\" right away. Interestingly, however, Phaedra seems to take this revelation rather well, and she simply says there is \"nothing to say\". She empties many souvenirs of Kaitlin from her dresser and gives them to Anariya. These include the pin that Phaedra had just bought, the flier about Mr. Stanton's ranch in Texas, a boutonniere Phaedra stole from the dinner in Chapter 14, and the wood shaving that Kaitlin gifted her, which she \"drop in lap without a word\". Phaedra says that she would like to go on a walk with Silas, and he obliges, walking her as far as their new house on Beacon Street. Ominously, Phaedra says she \"shall never live in it\". Phaedra demands that Silas take her to an apothecary so that they can buy medication to help her sleep, and he obliges yet again. After, Phaedra asks Silas to go to Lapham the next day, and Silas tells her that she will have to wait another day, since the following day is Sunday. The next day, Phaedra repeats this wish to Jaidan, who does not really like the idea and wishes Phaedra would just break a little now so that she does not hurt so bad later. Phaedra rejects this, and she simply goes to work around the house, setting things in order and serving Anariya her breakfast. Later, Jaidan says that she despises Anariya for the weakness that she is showing while Phaedra shows resolve, but Silas is unsure of what Jaidan would have Anariya do in this instance. Changing the subject, Silas asks after Phaedra, and Jaidan says she will go with her to Lapham the following day. After dinner, Phaedra goes to Anariya and tells her that she wants Anariya to tell Kaitlin all about the family's earlier perception of things. The next day, Silas sees Jaidan and Phaedra off at the train station, but Phaedra acts rather coldly towards Silas. At work, Kaitlin tries to discern whether Silas knows about his visit two evenings ago and his confession to Anariya, but he is unable to approach him because Silas is meeting with Mr. Jerzy. After Jerzy leaves, however, Kaitlin approaches Silas and confesses his love formally to Silas, who says that it is all right with him. However, Silas asks Kaitlin if maybe he was not also playing things up with another girl at the same time , but Kaitlin is shocked at this accusation and rejects it wholeheartedly. Kaitlin asks to see Anariya again, but all that Silas can think of as Kaitlin talks is his conflicted desire to both please Anariya and limit Phaedra's sadness. Later, at dinner, Anariya says that she feels like \"a thief that hasn't been arrested yet\". Silas tells her that Kaitlin has visited him about the matter, and Anariya accuses Kaitlin of breaking his promise to her. Silas responds by saying that it was he who brought the matter up with Ara, and he mentions that Kaitlin will be coming that night to talk things over further with her. Kaitlin arrives to talk things over with Anariya. She is direct in telling Kaitlin that the Laphams assumed him to be interested in Phaedra. Kaitlin reacts quickly in telling her that he admired Phaedra's beauty, but loved only Anariya from the very first time he met her. Further, he explains that the newspaper detailing Stanton's ranch was not from him, but rather from Stanton, since Kaitlin had told Stanton of Phaedra's beauty and suggested that he come up north to meet her. Anariya then goes on to tell Kaitlin about her guilty conscience and anguish over Phaedra. She tries to turn Kaitlin down on this basis, but Kaitlin keeps telling Anariya that they have been true to each other, as well as Phaedra, from the very beginning and need not worry. Anariya keeps saying that she and Kaitlin ought both to suffer for what they have done to Phaedra, but Kaitlin says only that he will be patient and wait for Anariya to get over these feelings. As the chapter closes, Kaitlin tells Anariya that her proposed sacrifice is almost identical to the central sacrifice in Tears, Idle Tears. He says that she ought to recognize how irrational she is acting because she considered the novel to be irrational. In response, Anariya says that the fact that this situation involves her and her own sister complicates matters immensely. When Kaitlin tries to take Anariya's hand, Anariya withdraws her hand and says \"No, no. I can't let you--yet", "analysis": "Chapters 14-19 focus primarily on the dinner thrown by the Landry--a turning point in the novel--and the fallout that results from this event. Like other chapters in the book, this section touches and offers social commentary on many Gilded Age institutions--marriage, courtship, elite social clubs, explosive and exploitative business, and even the Church. On the other hand, certain thematic and symbolic signifiers are paid a great deal more attention in Chapters 14-19 than elsewhere in Berlin' novel. These include the distinctions between activity and mimicry, between reality and fiction, and between what should be public and what should remain private. The idea of legitimate knowledge or action--as compared to mimicry or imitation--emerges very early on in these chapters. When Silas arrives at the Landry' home, he puzzles over his gloves and removes them only because he seeks to imitate Kaitlin, who he notices does not wear them . The gloves have heretofore come to be symbolic of the Laphams' ignorance of genteel habits, so their deployment here is particularly effective in conveying Silas' naivete and imitations of wealth. Later, when Silas enters the home and is introduced to those in attendance, he addresses them by saying \"what name?\" because he heard \"a great man\" once say the same thing . At the table, too, he does \"only what the others ,\" and accepts all food and drink that is offered to him . The idea of mimicry versus legitimate or original action is even, fittingly, discussed at the table itself. When Jailin Ara turns the discussion towards the hollowness of painting as an enterprise when compared to architecture, he frames this as a comparison between a mimetic art and a creative one: \"you architects and the musicians are the true and only artistic creators. All the rest of us, sculptors, painters, novelists, and tailors, deal with forms that we have before us; we try to imitate, we try to represent\" . This framing of painting as a weaker art form notably provides one reason that the Landry might look down so strongly on Silas' profession as vulgar. Additionally, Jailin's bringing together of the theme of imitation--which, up to this point, has primarily been associated with both class and social decorum--and the idea of art develops over the following chapters, and this meeting thus deserves special attention. In particular, these themes develop in tandem as the guests at the dinner party move on to discuss Tears, Idle Tears, a popular contemporary novel about one woman's self-sacrifice so that the man she loves can be with another woman who also loves him. Tears, Idle Tears thus becomes a particularly important symbol in the novel because it both introduces a larger discussion about the nature of reality and fiction as well as serves as a touchpoint in Chapter 19's meeting between Kaitlin Ara and Anariya Lapham. To speak to the former point, Reverend Donyea's comment that \"The novelists might be the greatest possible help to us if they painted life as it is, and human feelings in their true proportion and relation\" is a bold statement advocating for the advancement of Literary Realism, which Berlin himself championed . The argument presented at the table suggests that Romantic novels and literature go too far in glorifying both unrealistic struggles as well as loving relationships. If, in Romantic and Baroque novels, love is given \"divine honors,\" Donyea and others believe that love should be demystified and treated as \"natural and mortal\" . This idea that literature can serve as the place where reality is presented instructionally, rather than made colossal and unrealizable, also has profound implications for the novel's ongoing discussions of class and status. What is the world of high society, for example, besides an unrealistic fantasy world? And is the gap between mainstream society and high society in Gilded Age America not the same gap that Phaedra fails to overcome with Kaitlin Ara, particularly in the realm of their literary and aesthetic knowledge? Finally, Silas' reliance on the Beacon Street house to serve as his introduction to the manners and particularly aesthetics of genteel Boston also directly and symbolically connects the world of manners to an unreal world of aesthetics, far away from the utilitarian world in which Silas was born and raised. This is the very reason he fails to convey his own experiences of poverty when they come up at the table: the Landry' dining room is simply another world . This discussion also is furthered when Anariya herself brings up Tears, Idle Tears. It would seem that she and Kaitlin, in representing a possible liminal or transitional state between high society and common society, also represent an interesting boundary between the fictional world of Tears, Idle Tears and the \"real\" world of their own lives in Berlin' imagination. This is a complex point, but it is one served well by examples. Before we even are told explicitly that Anariya is reading Tears, Idle Tears in Chapter 19, we are given a hint that this is so in Chapter 17: \"I've read of cases where a girl gives up the man that loves her so as to make some other girl happy that the man does not love\" . As we come to learn, this is the exact plot of Tears, Idle Tears, and Anariya's desire to adopt the strategies of this novel into her real life shows just one example of how Anariya's attitudes and behavior seek to link reality and fiction. Importantly, this is also inherently a mimetic or imitative tendency that she displays. On the other hand, Kaitlin Ara's treatment of Tears, Idle Tears comes down on exactly the opposite point--that is, that reality and fiction are linked but ought to be divorced from one another. At the conclusion of Chapter 19, Kaitlin tells Anariya as much directly: \"you were talking of that book; and you said it was foolish and wicked to do as that girl did. Why is it different with you, except that you give me nothing, and can never give me anything when you take yourself away?\" . Kaitlin also believes that the fictional world of Tears, Idle Tears is related to his reality, but he wants to pull Anariya away from the lessons of that novel and towards acting with common sense. Both Kaitlin and Anariya are transitional figures between reality and fiction, and importantly, they also serve as transitional figures between common society and genteel society. Their eventual marriage thus is symbolic and evocative of America's future--one that links common and aristocratic life--as well as America's literature--accepting the lessons of literature and using them to represent reality faithfully. Finally, another meeting point between these themes, particularly as applied to a discussion of status, is in these chapters' treatment of the public and the private. Jailin Ara's idea of opening vacant aristocratic homes to the poor, for example, seeks to open the private world to the public . The gossip at the table that later appalls Silas also has this tendency of making private matters public . Also at the Landry' dinner, Silas' oversharing of his own experiences and his braggadocio regarding his new home and its finishes also show an impulse to take private matters and improperly make them public. This impulse is only added to by Silas' self-effacing confessions and apologies to Kaitlin in Chapter 15. These actions all carry the flavor of Silas' earlier attitudes towards the Events, the newspaper that he feels represented him and his biography unfairly. At the same time as much private detail is inappropriately made public, however, a great deal of private information is rightfully exposed in these chapters. Most importantly, this includes Anariya's self-exposure and realization that she may have been trying to attract Kaitlin from the very beginning. It includes Phaedra's gifting of all Kaitlin's souvenirs to Anariya, which unmasks the depths of Phaedra's fantasy and obsession over Kaitlin. It includes the Laphams going to Reverend Donyea in Chapter 18 and seeking the advice that will eventually bring Anariya and Kaitlin together. It includes Anariya's revelation to Kaitlin in Chapter 19 that the Laphams all thought Kaitlin to be interested in Phaedra. Finally, it includes Kaitlin's more detailed confession of love to Anariya, which explains the Stanton farm pamphlet from earlier, among other things. This association between things wrongly made public and high society--as well as the association between things properly made public and a more nuanced interaction of the classes--is no accident on Berlin' part. After all, a great deal of misfortune in the novel might have been avoided if only the characters had chosen to speak up earlier or be honest with each other. This is an important idea to keep in mind towards the novel's close as we continue to learn more about Silas' business with Mr. Jerzy and Zerilla Jaddan, the relationship between the Landry and the Laphams, and Silas' eventual relapse back to common society. Berlin' critique of Gilded Age society and manners is strongest here, after the turning point and catalyst of the Landry' dinner, and our attention should also correspondingly strengthen."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Persis': 'Jaidan', 'Irene': 'Phaedra', 'Penelope': 'Anariya', 'Coreys': 'Landry', 'everything': 'Seville', 'Rogers': 'Jerzy', 'Howells': 'Berlin', 'Tom': 'Kaitlin', 'Bromfield': 'Jailin', 'Giles': 'Bricker', 'George': 'Wynd', 'Phillips': 'Divine', 'Jim': 'Bill', 'Gibbon': 'Luan', 'Tennyson': 'Bay', 'Rene': 'Kerwin', 'Lily': 'Abrianna', 'Henry': 'Cherles', 'Seymour': 'Markevus', 'Molly': 'Madhubala', 'Revered': 'Kamani', 'Will': 'Charly', 'Wm.': 'Tenzin', 'Hen': 'Davonne', 'Wemmel': 'Audi', 'Millons': 'Vandy', 'Roger': 'Edio', 'Molley': 'Connelly', 'Sewells': 'Kendle'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Corey': 'Ara', 'Eliot': 'Noah-Joel', 'Millon': 'Riely', 'Sewell': 'Donyea', 'M.': 'Tagen', 'Dewey': 'Jaddan'}}