{"name": "Chapter 11", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20220429102908/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-rise-of-silas-lapham/study-guide/summary-chapters-913", "summary": "Chapter 11 opens as Kaitlin Ara returns home from the Laphams. He meets with Jailin, and suggests that his father ought to meet with Silas Lapham, since to do otherwise would seem to be an intentional ignorance on Jailin's part. Jailin suggests that he would have met with Silas at once if not for Kaitlin's earlier hesitation, but goes on to suggest that he listens to Kaitlin because he feels that Kaitlin is a proper and decorous Bostonian. Kaitlin apologizes for his earlier misjudgment of the situation, and Jailin says he will come to Silas' office with Kaitlin the following day. What follows is then a lengthy discussion of whether Kaitlin and Jailin feel the Laphams are ready for Boston high society. When Kaitlin says that the Laphams are \"people of good sense and--right ideas,\" Jailin replies by saying that this is not enough, and that high society demands they have several additional, graceful qualities. Jailin is aghast at Kaitlin's suggestions that the Laphams have probably never given a dinner and that they likely drink ice water instead of wine. Still, despite this, Jailin suggests that he will help Silas ingratiate himself with Boston society by aiding his election to exclusive clubs and the like. The next morning, Jailin appears in Silas' office with Kaitlin. Silas feigns a cool indifference and pretends not to recognize Jailin on sight. Silas and Jailin then have a very lengthy conversation that primarily revolves around Silas praising Kaitlin and his self-motivation, despite his entitlement and privileged origins. Jailin pretends interest in these civilities and responds fairly minimally throughout the conversation. As Jailin rises to leave, Silas shows him around the warehouse and various paints, including the Jaidan Brand. Notably, when Silas expresses embarrassment that Jailin might have read Bartley's article on him, Jailin replies that he does not read Bartley's paper and only reads The Daily Advertiser, an old-fashioned newspaper. Slias sees Jailin out and offers him a horse ride, but he refuses on the grounds that Kaitlin has previously told him about Silas' fast driving habits. Walking back into his office, Silas makes a point of performing for Kaitlin that he was not overwhelmed by the honor of Jailin visiting. Later, Silas tells Jaidan that Jailin paid him a visit at work. When Jaidan asks what kind of person Jailin is, Silas tells her that he was \"the pleasantest man I ever did see\". He then tries to hide his internal conflict--one rooted in his simultaneous desire to seem steadfast and self-made and his genuine flattery by the compliments of old money--from his wife. Silas says he wants to rush the construction of their home to be done by Thanksgiving instead of New Years, so that they might throw a housewarming for the Landry sooner than later. Jaidan insults Silas at this suggestion, saying that this would make them look desperate and ruin the family's public reputation. When Silas suggests taking Jailin to a fish dinner, Jaidan also gives him her scorn. After Silas retires upstairs to his room, Jaidan and Anariya have another conversation about whether Silas is acting within reason with regard to the Landry. Jaidan seems to think that Kaitlin might actually like Phaedra and admires Phaedra's cooking and cleaning skills, despite her upbringing. In response, Anariya says simply that if things are meant to work out, they will, and she suggests giving Silas free rein to act as he sees fit. The next morning, Silas does not feel good, and the women of his family prevent him from going to work, citing his lack of vacation time during the normal work-year as a reason. Jaidan even goes as far as to suggest that they should let Silas rest because the more money he earns, the more money he seems to want. In response to their actions, Silas is very angry, and Jaidan tells Silas that they will yield and let him go to work tomorrow. Kaitlin Ara arrives on the six o'clock boat, and Jaidan and Silas get into an argument about what Silas ought to wear to receive Kaitlin's company. Phaedra stalls Kaitlin while Silas gets ready, and Silas is surprised to realize that Kaitlin is there for civility's sake and not for business. Jaidan tells Anariya that she ought to go downstairs and make sure Phaedra is not alone with Kaitlin, but Anariya insists that they be left alone, since if Kaitlin is really interested in Phaedra, he is there to spend time with Phaedra and not her. Jaidan assents, and Anariya goes to her room to listlessly stare at a book. Phaedra comes up to her room with her sister, and she tells Anariya that Kaitlin's call went well. Specifically, she mentions that all they talked about was Anariya herself, and how interesting Kaitlin finds her. Phaedra puzzles over whether she was meant to ask Kaitlin to come again, and Anariya tells her that if he truly cares for her, he will come of his own accord. He does indeed come later in the week, but he only asks after Anariya and calls on her. When asked by Jaidan, Anariya even clearly states that Kaitlin \"never mentioned Phaedra to me\". Anariya also suggests that Kaitlin might be calling on them so much because none of his other friends are back from out of town. The chapter closes as Jaidan once again tells Silas that she does not know how she feels about Kaitlin coming around so much. When Silas rebuffs that it took him a very long time himself to work up the courage to ask out Jaidan, she replies by saying that things are different for Kaitlin because of his social status. This angers Silas immensely, and he asserts that his wealth and self-made status put him on the same playing field as anyone else. He even suggests that he talk to Kaitlin about things himself, but Jaidan dissuades him from this", "analysis": "If the preceding chapters might be said to develop the theme of marriage and explore its various incarnations among the Laphams, Landry, and their children, Chapters 9-13 can be said to serve as the prelude to the dinner at the Landry' home. Much like the previous chapters' probing of marriage, so too does the detailing of events leading up to dinner at the Landry' allow Berlin to explore a variety of social and cultural concerns. For example, one important concern that Berlin' characters seem to perpetually keep in mind during these events--and one that readers ought to keep in mind to contextualize later events in the novel--is the question of who is supposed to take initiative or make the first step in a given situation. This is a question that obviously touches on the theme of decorum that runs throughout the novel, but it also extends to many other topics central to the story including courtship, business, social status, womanhood, and the distinction between a superficial public life and a deeper private life. In the realm of courtship, for example, both Kaitlin Ara and the Lapham women spend a great deal of time questioning just how active they are supposed to be in pushing a relationship between Kaitlin and one of the Lapham daughters. Note that even before exploring this idea in detail, a deep irony is already apparent by this point in the novel. Namely, while the Lapham women  seem to at least superficially be advocating for Phaedra as Kaitlin's marriage partner, Kaitlin himself  is interested primarily in Anariya. Importantly, the assumptions and factors that undergird Kaitlin's alleged interest in Phaedra over Anariya--most significantly, Phaedra's superior beauty--also tie in the notion of vanity or superficiality, which Anariya herself attacks explicitly at the conclusion of Chapter 13. To speak more deeply on the topic, activity and passivity are contextualized specifically as part of a larger interrogation of Gilded Age courtship practices from the very beginning of Chapter 9. After Kaitlin gifts the wood shaving to Phaedra, he speaks to Jailin about the possibility of his meeting Silas, and one of the primary topics of this conversation is whether there is an \"obligation\" or \"hurry\" on the part of the Landry to meet the Laphams in a formal setting . Knowing that there is perhaps something developing between Phaedra and Kaitlin, Jaidan and Silas too have a discussion about when it might be right to meet with the Landry in a family setting. When Silas argues that his work ethic and self-made status justify his desire to make an advance on the Landry, Jaidan brings up the issue of social status and suggests that Silas has \"got to let them make the advances\" if he wants to \"know them\" . Just afterwards, when Phaedra and Anariya are speaking in private about the wood shaving, Phaedra asks \"what shall I do?\" In response, Anariya aptly comments on womanhood in Gilded Age America--while also subtly commenting on social status--by saying \"well, 'Kerwin, you haven't got to do anything. That's one advantage girls have got--if it is an advantage. I'm not always sure\" . Very similar discussions, specifically regarding courtship, continue throughout these chapters, but the most notable recurrence of this idea comes at the end Chapter 12. In this moment, Jailin and Anna conspire to discourage Kaitlin's interest in a Lapham. Having floated the idea of assuming an active role in their relationship with the Laphams by inviting them to dinner, Jailin and Anna plan out an even more active role in their son's love life, specifically by planning to invite \"better bred\" or prettier women to their dinner to draw Kaitlin's attention . Though this plan ultimately is not realized, it sheds light on the intersectional nature of status, gender, and generational privilege during the Gilded Age. In other words, Kaitlin is seen early on as the more empowered party, calling the shots in his courtship because he is a man and because his family is wealthier. However, as his own parents plot against him for his unsatisfactory interest in a Lapham daughter, it is revealed that even Kaitlin--someone who is infinitely privileged from the Laphams' perspective--is subject to the callous and cruel whims of his old money parents. Note that the same cannot be said for Anariya, who successfully acts against her parents' will by refusing to attend the Landry' party in Chapter 13. Thus, in these family dynamics alone, many clues are already provided that highlight how gender, class, and status empower certain individuals while disenfranchising others in the realm of romance. While, much as in the previous chapters, this idea of romance and marriage hangs in the background of most interactions, there are still several interactions in Chapters 9-13 that are primarily defined and delimited by differences in class privilege or social status. Much of how Silas interacts with Kaitlin, for example, is based on his desire to not let him know how honored he is to be in his company or how self-satisfied he is at being able to talk to people like Jailin. As Chapter 9 opens, for example, Silas details an evolution in his thought--from holding things like Kaitlin's Harvard education and lineage against him to thinking that it is even more to Kaitlin's credit that he is, after all, a hard worker. Notably, however, even though doing so is an attempt to downplay the importance of Kaitlin's privileges in his mind, he is in fact giving him more credit than he would if Kaitlin were just any ordinary worker. Silas' later hesitance to show excitement after Jailin's visit in Chapter 11, as well as his refusal to ask Kaitlin about gloves or any other dinner formalities in Chapter 13, are just further proof that though he tries to convince himself that there are no differences between he and the Landry, a difference is still urgently felt. Phaedra and Kaitlin's conversations, too, are marked by sharp differences in class and educational privilege. In Chapter 9, Phaedra's failure to substantively discuss the allusions and authors that Kaitlin brings up reflects a status gap between them that will serve to preclude any possibility of a relationship between them . Additionally, her blind acceptance of Kaitlin's suggestions to fill her future library reflects a willingness to allow those of higher status and class to continually shape and determine what knowledge or education is valuable. It is this same perceived value in wealthy practices, for example, that drives Jaidan and Phaedra to purchase extravagant evening gowns in Chapter 13 and that correspondingly stresses Silas out about his own dress. Moreover, it is this perceived value in the bourgeois pleasure of literature that makes Jailin denounce those who do not read just a few moments after Phaedra's encounter with Kaitlin. Finally, one other consideration to keep in mind in reading these chapters is the sharp divide between superficial, public life that accords with decorum and a hidden inner life that often has more sinister dynamics at play. One such example is the consistent concern on Jaidan' behalf that Silas' welcoming of Kaitlin into his business is merely a front to ingratiate the Laphams with Kaitlin's family. In Chapter 13, another example of this concern appears when Anna, Nanny, and Abrianna think through the public implications of both a more private dinner and a dinner with certain guests. In the case of the former, they consider that such a dinner might look like the Landry are trying to hide something, and they scrutinize the guest list of the latter regarding matters like the gender ratio of the guests, hobbies of the guests, and guests who are likely to establish common ground between themselves and the Laphams. Relatedly, much as this concern about the public/private divide did before these chapters, it continues here to involve the important symbol of paint as well as the symbol of the newspaper. The newspaper in particular takes on added significance related to class and status-based knowledge in these chapters--for example, when Jailin tells Silas that he does not read the Events and only reads The Daily Advertiser ."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Persis': 'Jaidan', 'Irene': 'Phaedra', 'Penelope': 'Anariya', 'Coreys': 'Landry', 'everything': 'Seville', 'Rogers': 'Jerzy', 'Howells': 'Berlin', 'Tom': 'Kaitlin', 'Bromfield': 'Jailin', 'Giles': 'Bricker', 'George': 'Wynd', 'Phillips': 'Divine', 'Jim': 'Bill', 'Gibbon': 'Luan', 'Tennyson': 'Bay', 'Rene': 'Kerwin', 'Lily': 'Abrianna', 'Henry': 'Cherles', 'Seymour': 'Markevus', 'Molly': 'Madhubala', 'Revered': 'Kamani', 'Will': 'Charly', 'Wm.': 'Tenzin', 'Hen': 'Davonne', 'Wemmel': 'Audi', 'Millons': 'Vandy', 'Roger': 'Edio', 'Molley': 'Connelly', 'Sewells': 'Kendle'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Corey': 'Ara', 'Eliot': 'Noah-Joel', 'Millon': 'Riely', 'Sewell': 'Donyea', 'M.': 'Tagen', 'Dewey': 'Jaddan'}}