{"name": "Chapter 24", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20220429102908/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-rise-of-silas-lapham/study-guide/summary-chapters-2427", "summary": "Chapter 24 opens with James Bellingham paying a visit to Kaitlin Ara on Silas' behalf, urging him to not put money into the paint business on account of Silas' financial difficulties. James remarks that, in this instance, Silas is behaving like a proper gentleman. When Kaitlin questions whether Silas is truly in such a difficult place, James informs Kaitlin that it is likely that Lapham always overestimated his worth from the beginning on account of his naivete. However, even though it is very possible that no sum of money will get Silas out of the hole he is in, James will assist him in figuring out his finances to the best of his ability. Kaitlin wonders if Anariya has knowledge of the financial offer he made to Silas. Coincidentally, at the same time that he wonders this, Jaidan is just telling Anariya about the offer. Anariya tells Jaidan that she thinks Kaitlin's offer is particularly silly, but she seems won over by how sweet Kaitlin is acting. A particularly comedic moment then follows, when Jaidan tells Silas that if Kaitlin were to repeat his offer , she thinks that Anariya would marry him. Silas, however, mistakes Jaidan' use of the word \"offer\" to mean the financial assistance that Kaitlin had suggested providing to the Lapham family. A letter then comes from Phaedra, which aptly tells Anariya that she should move on from Kaitlin and not \"be foolish\". After Jaidan and Anariya talk about this letter and Kaitlin's financial offer over, Anariya then goes to her room and writes two letters to Kaitlin, one long and flattering and one short and curt. She ultimately destroys both of these, however, and chooses to speak with Jaidan about how best to respond. When Anariya tells Jaidan about the note she wrote to Kaitlin, urging him not to come again unless called, Jaidan yells at Anariya and says that she is acting like a \"disgusting simpleton\" with regards to her own interests. Anariya can only meekly respond to these accusations by saying that she thought Silas would already be bankrupt, and that she told Kaitlin to stay away because she realized that there was no chance for them if Silas was poor. Moreover, she adds that her common sense of what is right and wrong completely fades away when she is acting in her own interest, as opposed to acting for others' benefit. Anariya dashes out a third, short note to Kaitlin thanking him for the offer but urging him to think about the impossibility of their relationship should Silas be poor. Kaitlin replies that evening, only saying that he loves Anariya regardless of her father's financial circumstances. Still, Anariya replies to this letter rejecting Kaitlin and urging him never to call on her again. Jaidan then tells Silas of this interaction, and in response, he says that he understands Anariya's mood in the context of their financial uncertainties. In reading her last note, the Landry themselves even acknowledge that Anariya is behaving \"very well\". A lengthy section then begins detailing the gradual and steady disintegration of Silas' remaining wealth, comparing it to the slow process of someone dying from a chronic illness. Despite the adversity he faces, however, Silas still hopes to set all the financial and personal issues in his household right. Moreover, Jaidan and Silas take consolation in the fact that Phaedra is not there to weather the hardship with them and that Anariya was resilient enough to turn down Kaitlin Ara. Silas then begins to think about to how resolve his financial situation with the assistance of James Bellingham. James suggests that Silas use an assignment, but Silas is unable to agree to this. Silas thinks about all the predatory businessmen and creditors that he is surrounded by, and he decides that the best thing he can do would be to sell his new home. This, after all, will cause the least comment and make the smallest stir among the well-to-do. Silas goes to the broker just after leaving Bellingham, and he says that he will only put the house on the market if it is not described and if he remains anonymous as the seller. When the broker tells Silas that many others have made this same stipulation, Silas is comforted and does not feel so isolated in his poverty. Thinking he might eventually have the gall to go back and take the house off the market, he never does and receives almost immediate interest from a potential buyer. This discomforts Silas and brings him to think that, after all, he cannot part with the house. He goes after work one day to look at the house for a final time. Once there, Silas then thinks at length about the symbol of the house, and how it seems to represent all of his pretensions and hopes to join high society and find success. He thinks about how Phaedra ominously said that she would never live there, and he also thinks about how the house served as his aesthetic education and first foray into ideas and concepts about design. He enters the home and looks around, noting among other things the scent of his own paint. He then looks out the bay windows and notes the Cambridge scenery, after which he resolves to test the chimney in the music room. Thinking this test successful, Silas sits for a bit and thinks up a plan to buy out his competition in West Virginia. Suddenly, some police officers enter, thinking Silas an intruder, but they are quickly assuaged in their fear by Silas and exit. After leaving the house, Silas goes home and tells Jaidan that he has a plan to save himself financially. In a brief moment of reprieve, he and Anariya go to the theater and enjoy themselves. After leaving the theater, however, Silas and Anariya come upon a stir in the area of Beacon Street. It seems that there is an immense fire, and Silas recognizes almost immediately that the fire is in his new home. Some pedestrians and onlookers comment derisively about Slias' failure to fireproof the home, and Anariya fails to whisk Silas away in a carriage. He walks home dejectedly and meets with Jaidan, who says that people are likely to think he burned the house down for insurance money. He tells Jaidan that this could not be the case, however, because his insurance policy on the house expired a week prior", "analysis": "These final chapters of Berlin' novel detail the acceleration and conclusion of Silas' fall from wealth and status. As Silas himself struggles to reconcile his personal and professional struggles, as well as understand the choices that got him into such a tough place to begin with, he touches on many of the prominent themes and conflicts that have been present throughout the novel. Chief among these are the difference between ethical and dubious business practices, the divide between the country and the city, the distinction between will and chance, and the relationship between people of different classes or socioeconomic statuses. First, a primary focus of these concluding chapters is Silas' devotion to fair business and his upstanding morals, which ultimately proves to be both one of the things that ruins him as well as one of the things that salvages his public and private reputation. When Jerzy offers Silas an easy out in the form of dealings with the Englishmen, for example, he will not do business with them because he thinks them to be unsavory characters. Further, Silas' eventual and official refusal to sell the milling properties even back to Jerzy results in the latter's ruination as well. His magnanimous reluctance to let Zerilla and Mrs. Riely brave the world without his assistance causes a deal of anger and uncertainty on Jaidan' part. Finally, when the New York agent comes to examine the Lapham works with Silas, his failure to withhold the truth of his economic hardships also prevents this deal from moving forward and saving him from bankruptcy. At the same time, however, Silas' inability to act in any morally gray fashion is what commends him to his creditors, his wife, and the public eye. When Lapham finally goes bust after his negotiations with the West Virginians peters out, for example, his \"prudence  good sense\" are some of the things that salvage his public reputation . Moreover, when Silas comes clean about Zerilla and her mother to Jaidan, Jaidan is left feeling not upset, but rather grateful that she was deceived, and she admires the purity of Silas' heart and spirit. It is also this same good heart and spirit that allows Silas to stay in close contact with the West Virginians, who eventually partner with him, provide him an avenue out of his debts, and give Kaitlin good work abroad. Finally, Silas' commitment to honesty and integrity, which he also has instilled in Anariya, plays a key role in making the Ara family come around to the union of Anariya and Kaitlin  . Second, it is no mistake of Berlin' that Silas' commitment to a simple and virtuous system of morals is associated with the West Virginians and his return to the countryside. Indeed, the divide between the urban and rural is felt quite acutely on the issue of morals, and this tension is drawn out in a matter that recalls Bartley Hubbard's assertion in Chapter 1 that Silas was raised on \"the Old Testament and Poor Richard's Almanac\" . For example, Silas finds respite from the predatory creditors of the city in the brothers from West Virginia--not just because they are naive in business and treat Silas well, but also because he sees himself in them . Further, the connection and kinship among simple country people does not just benefit Silas Lapham--when Reverend Donyea and his wife come, for example, they are fascinated by the \"moral spectacle\" of his regression to his simple country roots . Or, in a less voyeuristic and more selfish sense, consider also how the widening of the divide between urban and rural folk--primarily in the form of Silas' move back to Lapham, Vermont--is one of the things that allows the relationship between the Landry and the Laphams to remain cordial and unstrained . As additional evidence of this point, when Kaitlin and Anariya threaten to upend this peaceful divide with their union, consider that their timely choice to go abroad allows these divisions to continue in a nonconfrontational fashion. Third, many of these triumphs resulting from the urban-rural divide may also be considered victories that significantly rely on an equal mixture of willpower and good fortune. Appropriately, the dynamic relationship between what can be willed and what remains outside of our control is another central focus of these chapters. When Silas accidentally burns down the house on Beacon Street, for example, it calls our attention to both the fragility and contingency of Silas' fortune. At the same time, however, it also invites us to consider the discovery of the paint on the Lapham property--as well as the prosperity that follows--to be the result of good fortune, rather than hard work. Silas himself seems to admit as much in his final quote: \"seems sometimes it was a hole opened for me, and I crept out of it\" . One other thing to consider about the role of chance or accident in the burning of the Beacon Street home is that it particularly devastates the family insofar as their insurance policy has just expired the week before. On a complementary note, while many of the characters in these last few chapters look backwards to understand events as the result of chance, they also accept fate as a sufficient justification for failing both to take action or to will a different result in the present. For example, even though Silas and Jaidan cannot seem to get it straight in their head that Anariya's marriage to Kaitlin is just and correct, they resign themselves to accept the marriage and are proud that Anariya is marrying someone she loves . Additionally, while Jailin and Anna have a significant amount of reservations regarding Kaitlin's marriage to Anariya at the end of Chapter 26, they know that they can do nothing about it and that the two will marry regardless of what they do. This recalls Jailin's earlier stated position in Chapter 20 that all of his aristocratic dissolution was in vain because things have \"come to this  at last\" . Finally, the issues mentioned above all touch deeply on the relationship of the different social classes in Gilded Age society. Importantly, however, just as many of these other conflicts in the novel remain ambiguous and unresolved, so too do we get little closer on the class front. Silas and the Landry did not reconcile, after all, without Silas losing all access to upward mobility and moving far away. Moreover, even though Kaitlin and Anariya provide a potential hybrid avenue for the different classes to get along and move forward, their post-marital relationship is not fleshed out by Berlin, and it is not without its own troubles and issues. Thus, at the end of The Rise of Silas Lapham, we are made to wonder deeply about the nature of closure; whether such things as perfect heroism, morals, or closure even exist; and how Gilded Age America will reconcile the various and deeply rooted cultural and economic issues that have been traced throughout the course of this Realist masterpiece. While it is certainly a comedy of manners that lampoons the wealthy and advocates for the downtrodden, it is also a powerful statement about the limitations of poverty and the strong psychological compulsion to strive. These are the very same tensions that would carry literature out of Realism and propel it towards Modernism just a few short decades later."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Persis': 'Jaidan', 'Irene': 'Phaedra', 'Penelope': 'Anariya', 'Coreys': 'Landry', 'everything': 'Seville', 'Rogers': 'Jerzy', 'Howells': 'Berlin', 'Tom': 'Kaitlin', 'Bromfield': 'Jailin', 'Giles': 'Bricker', 'George': 'Wynd', 'Phillips': 'Divine', 'Jim': 'Bill', 'Gibbon': 'Luan', 'Tennyson': 'Bay', 'Rene': 'Kerwin', 'Lily': 'Abrianna', 'Henry': 'Cherles', 'Seymour': 'Markevus', 'Molly': 'Madhubala', 'Revered': 'Kamani', 'Will': 'Charly', 'Wm.': 'Tenzin', 'Hen': 'Davonne', 'Wemmel': 'Audi', 'Millons': 'Vandy', 'Roger': 'Edio', 'Molley': 'Connelly', 'Sewells': 'Kendle'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Corey': 'Ara', 'Eliot': 'Noah-Joel', 'Millon': 'Riely', 'Sewell': 'Donyea', 'M.': 'Tagen', 'Dewey': 'Jaddan'}}