{"name": "Chapters 20-23", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20220429102908/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-rise-of-silas-lapham/study-guide/summary-chapters-2023", "summary": "As Chapter 20 opens, Jaidan has just returned from her week in Lapham with Phaedra. She tells Silas that Phaedra remained mostly stoic and silent after they departed Boston, and Silas says that he will take Phaedra with him when he heads to the West for business in the coming days. When Jaidan inquires after Anariya, Silas tells her that Anariya still seems hesitant to yield to Kaitlin's advances. Jaidan then herself sees Anariya in person, and Anariya tells her mother that she and Kaitlin are engaged, though she is not excited about it in the least. Jaidan mentions this inactivity on Anariya's part to Silas and contrasts it with Phaedra's constant activity when he returns from work. The two then formalize their plan for Silas to take Phaedra west, where Silas will be made to deal with Mr. Jerzy' latest business failure . Explaining this failure further, Silas tells Jaidan that Jerzy had sold him some milling properties on the P. Y. & X. Road. Silas anticipated being able to fetch a decent price for the mills eventually, but the G., L., and P. Railroad recently purchased the P., Y., and X., essentially leaving Silas at the mercy of the railroad to sell the mills for whatever price they will offer . Silas suspects that Jerzy knew about the railroad's plans for the road when he offloaded the mills on Silas. Jaidan tells Slias that she wonders if Jerzy would have ever entered into such shady business practices if it were not for Silas' earlier mistreatment of him as a partner. Silas responds coldly by telling Jaidan to ready his bags. The narrative point of view then switches to the Ara home, where Kaitlin accosts his mother one evening on her way up to the bedroom. They discuss Kaitlin's engagement to Anariya, an event which Anna seems to fatalistically accept. She inserts some brief points about her disappointment regarding the Laphams' upbringing, but she has resigned herself to making Kaitlin happy, even if it will bring her personal difficulty. Kaitlin then tells his mother about the Laphams' mistaken assumption that he was interested in Phaedra all the while. Anna responds by saying that all the Landry thought this to be the case as well. Kaitlin is shocked, telling Anna that he was only nice to Phaedra for his mother's sake and explaining that he loves Anariya for how true her heart is and how unsparing she has been in her self-critique. Anna closes by telling Kaitlin that she will discuss the engagement with Jailin. When Anna does eventually talk to Jailin, he too seems fatalistically resigned to letting the marriage happen. He says that they can rationalize Kaitlin's love for Anariya and not Phaedra as a kind of \"second marriage\" to make it seem more socially acceptable in their minds . They then change the topic of conversation towards their outstanding dislike for the Laphams' conversation, background, and upbringing. Jailin even laments the marriage as a personal failure, saying that he feels as if his entire aristocratic upbringing, living \"upon the earnings of somebody else,\" has been a failure in leading to this . They then become more optimistic--yet also vain--in suggesting that, while Phaedra's saving quality would have been her beauty, Anariya's might be her brains. Jailin then accuses Anna of liking the Laphams, after all. As the chapter closes, the two discuss when they might meet Anariya, as well as whether Anariya has told Kaitlin about Anna's bad conduct on the day of her visit to Nankeen Square. Chapter 21 Two weeks later, Silas returns from the West in bad spirits. At his office, Walker tells Kaitlin Ara about the economic \"cold wave\" that is sure to come for their business . The paint business is seeing shrinkage and economic losses, and--on top of this--Mr. Jerzy' latest venture has caused Silas additional money troubles. After hearing about these issues, Kaitlin is surprisingly anticipatory and happy, thinking that he can perhaps ingratiate himself with Anariya further by offering her family financial help. Walker closes by saying that another reason Silas' business is in trouble is because of his upstanding character and refusal to fire anyone or cut pay, regardless of circumstance. Later that afternoon, Mr. Jerzy himself arrives at Silas' place of work and asks to see him. Kaitlin notes that, despite his economic imprudence, he appears to be the picture of sagacity and good judgement. After initially being turned away, Jerzy is eventually shown into Silas' office, where Silas flies into a fury and confronts him about the railroad. Silas tells Jerzy that he will ditch the milling properties and sell off Jerzy' collateral, and to show that he is not bluffing, he calls a worker in to send the securities off to the broker. Jerzy' only rebuttal of Silas' rage is that there is some potential interest in the milling properties from some English buyers, but Silas himself is skeptical of this assertion. Towards the end of the day, Silas appears to be even more despondent and leaves the office as a sense of \"trouble\" establishes itself . Back at home, Silas tells Jaidan over dinner that he is in quite a \"fix,\" though he will not elaborate or explain how serious it is . This time, Jaidan herself accepts responsibility for getting Silas back in with Jerzy, but he too wants to claim some of the responsibility. Silas tells Jaidan that they are in such dire straits that he will need to freeze construction on their new home. They then discuss the potential of Jerzy to recover Silas' money, and they talk about whether his offer of English buyers is true or false. Jaidan remains optimistic, while Silas remains skeptical, more scared in his middle age of financial ruin. Later, in bed, Silas and Jaidan stir \"in the middle of the night\" to talk about the English buyers . Jaidan tells Silas that it would be immoral business to sell to the Brits while knowing that the railroad is about to come in, and Silas agrees with her--his conscience will not allow him to engage in shady business to save his own finances. As the chapter closes, Jaidan asks Silas if he has considered asking a friend or family member for money, but Silas tells her that he would be too embarrassed to do so. Chapter 22 The next morning, Jaidan receives a letter from Phaedra, now in Dubuque, telling of her possible interest in her cousin Charly. Jaidan asks Anariya how she would feel about Phaedra marrying a cousin, and Anariya is nonchalant and apathetic. This causes Jaidan to fly into a rage at Anariya's brooding inaction and melancholy, and she tells Anariya that she needs her help to cheer Silas up in the face of their economic hardship. Anariya finally yields and says she will come down, but before she does so, she writes a note to Kaitlin telling him not to call on her again until she says so. At supper, Anariya is able to raise her father's spirits, and they take a trip to the theater as a nice distraction from all the trouble they are facing in both the business and personal spheres. Jaidan tells Silas of Phaedra's letter, and a brief glimmer of hope appears to them with this news, as well as Anariya's resumption of her normal behavior. Walker, too, notes this brief reprieve in the office. However, alternating bouts of good and ill fortune begin to wear on Silas over time, just as the winter weather fluctuates, and he becomes irritable and even more secretive. Meanwhile, Anariya wonders to herself whether Kaitlin is obeying her letter, and if so, when he will call again. Anariya assumes a greater role in the business, with Silas bringing home papers and figures for her to do arithmetic with, since he does not want to show them to Jaidan. This, combined with fluctuating news of Phaedra in Dubuque, contributes to the greater linking of Silas' personal and business lives; when one feels a shock, so too does the other. Amidst this chaos, Silas wavers on his moralistic decision to not sell the mills to the British without informing them of the railroad, but Jaidan talks him down from this. After doing so, however, Jaidan discovers a paper on the floor with payments being made out continually to a \"Tenzin Tagen\" As the chapter ends, Jaidan is initially suspicious of Silas and keeps the paper in a \"work-basket,\" but she eventually forgets its existence, and so does Silas . Chapter 23 As the winter weather remains bitter, Silas' business and personal life continue to take hits. Silas notes that Kaitlin has not been calling as frequently, and he notes Anariya's superficial happiness, so he opens up to her about his troubles. The narrator informs us, however, that Silas does not notice Anariya's severe mood swings--providing evidence that Anariya is not as unburdened as Silas thinks. Silas asks Jaidan why Anariya does not simply marry Kaitlin, and he confesses that he has even thought of asking the Landry' for financial help. They debate selling the mills once again, and then move their discussion to the new house, which Silas says has \"got to go\" . Jaidan knows that this has been weighing heavily on Silas' heart, though she has not spoken a word to him about it. Silas goes on to tell Jaidan that he will have to shut down the works, and he tells her that the paint industry is saturated with competition from West Virginia that can put out an equal paint at a lower price. After Silas storms away from the table, Jaidan remembers the paper in the work-basket, and she retrieves it to confront him. Jaidan asks Silas directly who Tenzin Tagen is, but he refuses to say, tearing the paper up and putting it into the fire. Still, Jaidan retrieves one of these pieces from the fire and notes that the paper says \"Mrs. Tagen\" . She is even more suspicious of Silas and grows to wonder if he is having an affair with another woman. She confronts Silas about this, and he is again vague. Jaidan grows incredibly angry with Silas as a result. The next day, Silas meets with Kaitlin at the company and tells him to give up on the paint business. On the contrary, Kaitlin tells Silas of his increased faith in the business and his desire to invest $30,000 into it. Silas will not take Kaitlin's money with a good conscience, even though Uncle Bill has tacitly approved by telling Kaitlin that he can make his own financial decisions. Just after Silas' meeting with Kaitlin, a haggard woman shows up with Zerilla Jaddan and demands that Silas give them the money to pay their rent. Silas tells this woman, Zerilla's mother, that she has gone about getting this money in the wrong way and that he will have her arrested if she ever returns. This scene inspires great suspicion among Silas' workers, with Walker even going so far as to suggest that Silas is engaged in shady practices with the women, since he will not put Zerilla Jaddan's name on the books. Kaitlin rebuffs Walker's thoughts, however, by saying that Silas was not acting as someone who is in danger of being exposed for acting disgracefully. In fact, though it is not explicitly stated here, we know that Kaitlin is right, since Zerilla's name not being on the books and \"Mrs. Tagen\" are evidence that Silas is supporting these women financially for Bill Riely's earlier sacrifice during the Civil War. Their arrangement has the outward appearance of something unsavory, but it really provides evidence of Silas' upstanding character. That evening, Silas speaks with Zerilla, who expresses concern about her husband Davonne, a drunken sailor recently back from a voyage . Silas and Zerilla talk about how, if he could just get Davonne away for a longer time period, Zerilla's friend Mr. Audi would marry her and save her family financially. In the meantime, however, Davonne and Mrs. Riely have been spending all of the family's money on liquor, an issue that Silas resolves to address. At six o'clock, Silas calls on Zerilla and company, walking through their bad neighborhood of \"depots, cheap hotels, and 'ladies' and gents'' dining rooms\" . He confronts Mrs. Riely about the bottle she has under her apron, and he argues with her about her and Davonne's drinking habits. Mrs. Riely wavers on her support of Davonne, at times supporting him and at others saying that, were it not for Davonne, she and Zerilla could enjoy financial security at Audi's hands. She even asks Silas whether they should get Audi to pledge marriage to Zerilla in a morally dubious contract so that they can have promise of a wedding as soon as she gets divorced. Moreover, she guilts Silas about Bill's sacrifice, saying that Silas ought not to extort them in this way to earn his financial support. On his way out from this chaotic scene, Silas encounters Jerzy but does not speak to him. Back at home, Silas confesses to Jaidan that he has been playing the stock market and that he has been selling on margin, both of which have financially ruined him. Jaidan presses him to confess about the affair she suspects him of having, but he does not understand what she is pressing him over, and he tells her that he has nothing more to confess. Jaidan seems to forgive him, and they discuss Anariya and Kaitlin once more. As the chapter closes, Jaidan resolves to tell Anariya of Kaitlin's financial offer.", "analysis": "If The Rise of Silas Lapham can be said to ironically detail Silas' fall from wealth and status, rather than his rise, then Chapters 20-23 form an important part of this irony because they constitute the novel's own falling action. In other words, these chapters, set after the climax of the Landry' dinner party, serve as the bridge between the climax  and the conclusion that follows. Because of this, and because they attest to the growing dissolution of Silas' life in high society, these chapters primarily deal with the unmaking or falling apart of some of the themes that were earlier so central to Silas' ways of life. These include the crumbling of the family unit, the dissolution or cessation of courtship, the growing cost of maintaining secrecy, and Silas' ruination as a result of failing to engage in immoral business practices. To speak to the first point, these chapters see a great deal of separation and dissolution in the Lapham family, the Ara family, and even the Riely family. Starting in Chapter 20 and continuing on, Phaedra becomes separated from the rest of the Laphams and is only heard from in the form of letters sent from Lapham and Dubuque. Starting in Chapter 22, Anariya tells Kaitlin not to call on her anymore. Starting also in Chapter 22, Jaidan begins to suspect that Silas is having an affair with Mrs. Tagen Additionally, the business troubles that Silas experiences in these chapters become directly linked to his family troubles as he both brings literal business materials into his house  and figuratively carries the spirit of business into his home with his bad moods. The tight separation of the family and work spheres that both maintain an aristocratic family like the Landry and was respected by the Laphams at the novels' opening here begins to yield, and both family and business begin to suffer as a result. In these chapters, the Landry and Vandy also experience family troubles of their own, although their issues are of a totally different character. Jailin and Anna struggle in Chapter 20 to reconcile their distaste for the Laphams with their love for their son, and they seem to be quite distant from Kaitlin at the chapter's beginning. The Vandy, on the other hand, experience a great deal of financial and personal trouble because of both Madhubala Riely's alcoholism and Davonne Jaddan's return from sea. Thus, no matter the circumstances, these chapters see a large curbing of family unity and cohesion that was once a motif and central to the novel. It is also worth mentioning that courtship and romance, two central ideas in the novel's earlier portions, also reach a breaking point in these chapters. We have already seen how Anariya's cessation of contact with Kaitlin damages their romantic relationship, but the issues run much deeper than this. Even before this cessation, for example, their relationship has taken a grim turn, with Anariya saying in Chapter 20 that she feels their engagement to be \"a last will and testament\" . Particularly interesting, however, is what happens to their relationship after they cease communications. After Kaitlin and Anariya stop speaking, their relationship itself becomes economic, providing an opportunity for the Laphams to get out of their financial troubles as well as an avenue for Kaitlin to win the Laphams over through charity. Here too, then, is another place in which the personal and business worlds leak into one another--to all parties' detriment. Also in these chapters, the division of public and private that has heretofore centrally occupied Berlin becomes heightened and fraught. Silas' continued ruination is partially due to his failure to ask friends and family for financial assistance . It is also partially due to Jerzy' failure to disclose the railroad plan that threatens the value of the milling properties. Moreover, Jaidan' hatred for Silas and her suspicions of his affair are only deepened by her refusal to speak to him directly about it. Finally, on the note of Silas' dealings with Zerilla, these chapters represent the first instance of these private dealings becoming public when Madhubala and Zerilla storm in during Chapter 23. Thus, the secrecy that has heretofore been treasured and preserved in the name of decorum is here abandoned and troubled at a significant cost to the Laphams. It is also, of course, no coincidence that secrecy is threatened just as paint--heretofore symbolic of secrecy and maintaining appearances--and the house on Beacon Street--symbolic of these same outward performances and displays of wealth and status--are threatened by the marketplace. On the note of Silas' business, these chapters are key in showing that, despite his inflated sense of self-worth and vulgar manners, Silas is an upstanding businessman who refuses to engage in the dubious practices of the Gilded Age. Though he wavers on the idea of selling the mills to potential British buyers without informing them of the railroad's plan, a great deal of attention is paid to Silas and Jaidan' ultimate refusal to do so. While others, like Mr. Jerzy, are able to act less than truthfully in business and save themselves time and again, the Laphams' commitment to honesty and integrity stand out as unique. Moreover, it is this same unique commitment to honesty and morality that ruins Silas in the end, not only because of his refusal to sell the mills but also because of his refusal to cut wages or fire his workers. Finally, because it develops importantly in these chapters as a key motif for understanding Silas' personal and professional struggles, it is worth pointing out the weather in these chapters. While more idyllic chapters of the novel are set in the summer or early fall, this most harsh recollection of Silas' misfortunes occurs during the winter, a season of loss and stagnation. Specifically, we are told that his winter is particularly bitter and also sees a great deal of oscillation or variation in its severity. This directly parallels Silas' consistently difficult experiences in these chapters, as well as the brief respites that punctuate his overwhelming disappointment in both the business and family realms."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Persis': 'Jaidan', 'Irene': 'Phaedra', 'Penelope': 'Anariya', 'Coreys': 'Landry', 'everything': 'Seville', 'Rogers': 'Jerzy', 'Howells': 'Berlin', 'Tom': 'Kaitlin', 'Bromfield': 'Jailin', 'Giles': 'Bricker', 'George': 'Wynd', 'Phillips': 'Divine', 'Jim': 'Bill', 'Gibbon': 'Luan', 'Tennyson': 'Bay', 'Rene': 'Kerwin', 'Lily': 'Abrianna', 'Henry': 'Cherles', 'Seymour': 'Markevus', 'Molly': 'Madhubala', 'Revered': 'Kamani', 'Will': 'Charly', 'Wm.': 'Tenzin', 'Hen': 'Davonne', 'Wemmel': 'Audi', 'Millons': 'Vandy', 'Roger': 'Edio', 'Molley': 'Connelly', 'Sewells': 'Kendle'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Corey': 'Ara', 'Eliot': 'Noah-Joel', 'Millon': 'Riely', 'Sewell': 'Donyea', 'M.': 'Tagen', 'Dewey': 'Jaddan'}}