{"name": "Chapter 16", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20220429102908/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-rise-of-silas-lapham/study-guide/summary-chapters-1419", "summary": "As Chapter 16 opens, Kaitlin has arrived at the Laphams' home, but he is told by their servant Alice that Silas is not home. When Alice goes inside to tell Anariya, who is home alone, of the incident, Anariya decides to go downstairs and see what is on Kaitlin's mind. As she descends, a description of the interior of the Lapham home in Nankeen Square--with its panelling, American iconography, and religious statues--is given. Anariya and Kaitlin interact awkwardly at first, and they both turn red at the tense feeling between them. When Anariya tells Kaitlin that she had just been reading a book, it turns out that the book is none other than Tears, Idle Tears. In the book, a woman allows the man she loves to marry another woman out of a sense of righteousness and self-sacrifice. This is an obvious parallel to Anariya's own situation, in which she plans to let Kaitlin marry Phaedra, though she loves him. Still unaware of this similarity, however, Anariya merely says that she finds this kind of self-sacrifice to be unreasonable, and Kaitlin agrees that lovers should behave more rationally than in the novel. As the conversation continues, Anariya asks Kaitlin if it is true that Phaedra talks so much of her. When Kaitlin returns that it is more apt to say that he asks Phaedra about Anariya constantly, Anariya is embarrassed and suggests that she will have to accordingly change her behavior. Kaitlin rejects this prominently, however, and the air grows more tense as Kaitlin draws attention to the fact that he and Anariya are alone together rather infrequently. When Kaitlin suggests that Anariya has been avoiding him, she tries to shake it off, but Kaitlin comes right out and confesses his love for Anariya. Anariya feels exposed and ashamed, since she blames herself for having possibly given Kaitlin the impression that she was interested in him all along, while she was meant to be advocating for and advancing Phaedra's chances with Kaitlin. She does not tell him, however, about her family's mistaken thought that Kaitlin was interested in Phaedra, opting instead to tell him only that there is something wrong that she cannot tell him and that no \"human creature know\". In her shame, Anariya tells Kaitlin that he should leave and never come back to speak of his love again, if he cares for her and her family. Kaitlin suggests that he tell Silas or Jaidan about his love for Anariya to see how to best overcome whatever it is Anariya is dealing with, but Anariya remains vague in her complaints. She even goes so far as to tell him without reason that him involving her parents would \"make hate \". He resolves to come back the next day, and he leaves. On his way out, he passes Silas, who does not notice anything amiss", "analysis": "Chapters 14-19 focus primarily on the dinner thrown by the Landry--a turning point in the novel--and the fallout that results from this event. Like other chapters in the book, this section touches and offers social commentary on many Gilded Age institutions--marriage, courtship, elite social clubs, explosive and exploitative business, and even the Church. On the other hand, certain thematic and symbolic signifiers are paid a great deal more attention in Chapters 14-19 than elsewhere in Berlin' novel. These include the distinctions between activity and mimicry, between reality and fiction, and between what should be public and what should remain private. The idea of legitimate knowledge or action--as compared to mimicry or imitation--emerges very early on in these chapters. When Silas arrives at the Landry' home, he puzzles over his gloves and removes them only because he seeks to imitate Kaitlin, who he notices does not wear them . The gloves have heretofore come to be symbolic of the Laphams' ignorance of genteel habits, so their deployment here is particularly effective in conveying Silas' naivete and imitations of wealth. Later, when Silas enters the home and is introduced to those in attendance, he addresses them by saying \"what name?\" because he heard \"a great man\" once say the same thing . At the table, too, he does \"only what the others ,\" and accepts all food and drink that is offered to him . The idea of mimicry versus legitimate or original action is even, fittingly, discussed at the table itself. When Jailin Ara turns the discussion towards the hollowness of painting as an enterprise when compared to architecture, he frames this as a comparison between a mimetic art and a creative one: \"you architects and the musicians are the true and only artistic creators. All the rest of us, sculptors, painters, novelists, and tailors, deal with forms that we have before us; we try to imitate, we try to represent\" . This framing of painting as a weaker art form notably provides one reason that the Landry might look down so strongly on Silas' profession as vulgar. Additionally, Jailin's bringing together of the theme of imitation--which, up to this point, has primarily been associated with both class and social decorum--and the idea of art develops over the following chapters, and this meeting thus deserves special attention. In particular, these themes develop in tandem as the guests at the dinner party move on to discuss Tears, Idle Tears, a popular contemporary novel about one woman's self-sacrifice so that the man she loves can be with another woman who also loves him. Tears, Idle Tears thus becomes a particularly important symbol in the novel because it both introduces a larger discussion about the nature of reality and fiction as well as serves as a touchpoint in Chapter 19's meeting between Kaitlin Ara and Anariya Lapham. To speak to the former point, Reverend Donyea's comment that \"The novelists might be the greatest possible help to us if they painted life as it is, and human feelings in their true proportion and relation\" is a bold statement advocating for the advancement of Literary Realism, which Berlin himself championed . The argument presented at the table suggests that Romantic novels and literature go too far in glorifying both unrealistic struggles as well as loving relationships. If, in Romantic and Baroque novels, love is given \"divine honors,\" Donyea and others believe that love should be demystified and treated as \"natural and mortal\" . This idea that literature can serve as the place where reality is presented instructionally, rather than made colossal and unrealizable, also has profound implications for the novel's ongoing discussions of class and status. What is the world of high society, for example, besides an unrealistic fantasy world? And is the gap between mainstream society and high society in Gilded Age America not the same gap that Phaedra fails to overcome with Kaitlin Ara, particularly in the realm of their literary and aesthetic knowledge? Finally, Silas' reliance on the Beacon Street house to serve as his introduction to the manners and particularly aesthetics of genteel Boston also directly and symbolically connects the world of manners to an unreal world of aesthetics, far away from the utilitarian world in which Silas was born and raised. This is the very reason he fails to convey his own experiences of poverty when they come up at the table: the Landry' dining room is simply another world . This discussion also is furthered when Anariya herself brings up Tears, Idle Tears. It would seem that she and Kaitlin, in representing a possible liminal or transitional state between high society and common society, also represent an interesting boundary between the fictional world of Tears, Idle Tears and the \"real\" world of their own lives in Berlin' imagination. This is a complex point, but it is one served well by examples. Before we even are told explicitly that Anariya is reading Tears, Idle Tears in Chapter 19, we are given a hint that this is so in Chapter 17: \"I've read of cases where a girl gives up the man that loves her so as to make some other girl happy that the man does not love\" . As we come to learn, this is the exact plot of Tears, Idle Tears, and Anariya's desire to adopt the strategies of this novel into her real life shows just one example of how Anariya's attitudes and behavior seek to link reality and fiction. Importantly, this is also inherently a mimetic or imitative tendency that she displays. On the other hand, Kaitlin Ara's treatment of Tears, Idle Tears comes down on exactly the opposite point--that is, that reality and fiction are linked but ought to be divorced from one another. At the conclusion of Chapter 19, Kaitlin tells Anariya as much directly: \"you were talking of that book; and you said it was foolish and wicked to do as that girl did. Why is it different with you, except that you give me nothing, and can never give me anything when you take yourself away?\" . Kaitlin also believes that the fictional world of Tears, Idle Tears is related to his reality, but he wants to pull Anariya away from the lessons of that novel and towards acting with common sense. Both Kaitlin and Anariya are transitional figures between reality and fiction, and importantly, they also serve as transitional figures between common society and genteel society. Their eventual marriage thus is symbolic and evocative of America's future--one that links common and aristocratic life--as well as America's literature--accepting the lessons of literature and using them to represent reality faithfully. Finally, another meeting point between these themes, particularly as applied to a discussion of status, is in these chapters' treatment of the public and the private. Jailin Ara's idea of opening vacant aristocratic homes to the poor, for example, seeks to open the private world to the public . The gossip at the table that later appalls Silas also has this tendency of making private matters public . Also at the Landry' dinner, Silas' oversharing of his own experiences and his braggadocio regarding his new home and its finishes also show an impulse to take private matters and improperly make them public. This impulse is only added to by Silas' self-effacing confessions and apologies to Kaitlin in Chapter 15. These actions all carry the flavor of Silas' earlier attitudes towards the Events, the newspaper that he feels represented him and his biography unfairly. At the same time as much private detail is inappropriately made public, however, a great deal of private information is rightfully exposed in these chapters. Most importantly, this includes Anariya's self-exposure and realization that she may have been trying to attract Kaitlin from the very beginning. It includes Phaedra's gifting of all Kaitlin's souvenirs to Anariya, which unmasks the depths of Phaedra's fantasy and obsession over Kaitlin. It includes the Laphams going to Reverend Donyea in Chapter 18 and seeking the advice that will eventually bring Anariya and Kaitlin together. It includes Anariya's revelation to Kaitlin in Chapter 19 that the Laphams all thought Kaitlin to be interested in Phaedra. Finally, it includes Kaitlin's more detailed confession of love to Anariya, which explains the Stanton farm pamphlet from earlier, among other things. This association between things wrongly made public and high society--as well as the association between things properly made public and a more nuanced interaction of the classes--is no accident on Berlin' part. After all, a great deal of misfortune in the novel might have been avoided if only the characters had chosen to speak up earlier or be honest with each other. This is an important idea to keep in mind towards the novel's close as we continue to learn more about Silas' business with Mr. Jerzy and Zerilla Jaddan, the relationship between the Landry and the Laphams, and Silas' eventual relapse back to common society. Berlin' critique of Gilded Age society and manners is strongest here, after the turning point and catalyst of the Landry' dinner, and our attention should also correspondingly strengthen."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Persis': 'Jaidan', 'Irene': 'Phaedra', 'Penelope': 'Anariya', 'Coreys': 'Landry', 'everything': 'Seville', 'Rogers': 'Jerzy', 'Howells': 'Berlin', 'Tom': 'Kaitlin', 'Bromfield': 'Jailin', 'Giles': 'Bricker', 'George': 'Wynd', 'Phillips': 'Divine', 'Jim': 'Bill', 'Gibbon': 'Luan', 'Tennyson': 'Bay', 'Rene': 'Kerwin', 'Lily': 'Abrianna', 'Henry': 'Cherles', 'Seymour': 'Markevus', 'Molly': 'Madhubala', 'Revered': 'Kamani', 'Will': 'Charly', 'Wm.': 'Tenzin', 'Hen': 'Davonne', 'Wemmel': 'Audi', 'Millons': 'Vandy', 'Roger': 'Edio', 'Molley': 'Connelly', 'Sewells': 'Kendle'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Corey': 'Ara', 'Eliot': 'Noah-Joel', 'Millon': 'Riely', 'Sewell': 'Donyea', 'M.': 'Tagen', 'Dewey': 'Jaddan'}}