{"name": "Chapter 13", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20220429102908/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-rise-of-silas-lapham/study-guide/summary-chapters-913", "summary": "Chapter 13 opens with Anna Ara ultimately deciding to invite the Laphams to dinner at her home. She asks her daughters about the issue, and they agree that her outstanding debts to the Laphams serve as an adequate justification for an invitation. All the Ara women, however, are worried about how Kaitlin will react at such a dinner. They feel in this instance like any newcomer to Boston society might, scared of insulting or impugning anyone for fear that it might harm someone close to them. A brief reflection is then offered by the narrator on this topic, who says that the closeness of Boston society and the ability of gossip to get around its close communities is one thing that offers the elite of Boston society consolation. The Ara women then begin to think of a guest list for their upcoming dinner. They add Anna's brother, James Bellingham, to the list, along with the widow of her cousin Cherles. They also add this widow's son, Charles; the Minister Donyea and his wife; and the poorer painter Robert Chase and the young Miss Kingsbury. When the Landry realize that this gender ratio is off, however, they decide to invite the architect Mr. Markevus. When Kaitlin comes home later that evening, Anna tells him of the plan, saying that she will cancel if Kaitlin does not approve. After she tells him that it is to repay her debts to the Laphams and that to do anything less public might seem intentionally secretive, however, Kaitlin assents. Just after Anna sends out the invitation, however, Kaitlin asks her to cancel. Anna replies by saying that it would be indecorous to cancel and that they can try to make the Laphams have as good a time as possible. Meanwhile, she hopes to herself that Kaitlin truly was doing nothing more than flirting with the Lapham girls. The narrative point of view then shifts to Mrs. Lapham, who herself is thinking that Kaitlin was doing no more than flirting with her girls. That evening, the invitation from Mrs. Ara arrives at the Lapham home, and the family wonders together what the invitation might mean in light of Mrs. Ara's tense and painful visit earlier that afternoon. When Jaidan tells Silas about the distaste Mrs. Ara likely has for them, Silas asks for tangible evidence and says that she would not have invited them for dinner if she really did not care for them. Still, Anariya refuses to attend the dinner on principle. Following this initial murmur about the dinner, a large-scale fuss ensues, starting with a debate over how to even reply to the Ara's invitation. Once Jaidan gets this resolved and Silas sends the family's response in the mail, however, a discussion begins about what the family must do both at the dinner and in preparation for the dinner. Silas tells Jaidan that they can use the dinner as a learning experience for when they are expected to throw their own dinners, but Jaidan continues to express confusion and frustration about the whole affair, even down to the details of what she will wear. When Jaidan tells Silas that they are perhaps too old to learn to change their ways and behave like the Landry do, they eventually come to a mutual agreement that it is worthwhile to attend in the hope that their daughters might still learn how to behave among others in high society. Despite this, however, Silas goes through the week worried, both about all the preparations being made for the dinner and about Anariya's refusal to attend. Watching Jaidan and Phaedra fuss over their attire makes Silas wonder about his own clothing. Each individual detail becomes an object of internal scrutiny, from his dress coat, to his waistcoat, to his cravat, to whether he is even supposed to wear gloves. Even so, Silas refuses to ask Kaitlin for even a bit of advice on what to wear, and he thinks up ways to subtly pick Kaitlin's brain for advice, though he does not go through with it. Out of their general ignorance, the Laphams decide to search for and find books about elegant dinner parties. These books tell them, for example, that it is rude to refuse an invitation without telling a host at once; accordingly, Silas says that he will make Anariya attend the Landry' dinner. They also buy many books looking for an answer about gentlemen's gloves, but find no answers, so Silas buys a pair of gloves just to be safe. Late in the game, Jaidan initially tells Silas that she should say home with Anariya, but Silas refuses. He accuses Jaidan of being the one who wanted to get in with the Landry in the first place, and she eventually yields. She does, however, tell Silas not to embarrass the family in front of the Landry. The night of the dinner, Silas feels mixed emotions when seeing Phaedra in her new dress. He feels both shame for all the trouble they are going through on the Landry' behalf, as well as pride and tenderness at his daughter's beauty and opportunity to advance in Boston's high society. Anariya, however, still refuses to attend. As the chapter closes, Anariya makes a rude remark about her family's vanity while they are on their way out. After they leave, however, she goes \"upstairs with her lips firmly shutting in a sob,\" revealing her secret desire to attend the dinner after all", "analysis": "If the preceding chapters might be said to develop the theme of marriage and explore its various incarnations among the Laphams, Landry, and their children, Chapters 9-13 can be said to serve as the prelude to the dinner at the Landry' home. Much like the previous chapters' probing of marriage, so too does the detailing of events leading up to dinner at the Landry' allow Berlin to explore a variety of social and cultural concerns. For example, one important concern that Berlin' characters seem to perpetually keep in mind during these events--and one that readers ought to keep in mind to contextualize later events in the novel--is the question of who is supposed to take initiative or make the first step in a given situation. This is a question that obviously touches on the theme of decorum that runs throughout the novel, but it also extends to many other topics central to the story including courtship, business, social status, womanhood, and the distinction between a superficial public life and a deeper private life. In the realm of courtship, for example, both Kaitlin Ara and the Lapham women spend a great deal of time questioning just how active they are supposed to be in pushing a relationship between Kaitlin and one of the Lapham daughters. Note that even before exploring this idea in detail, a deep irony is already apparent by this point in the novel. Namely, while the Lapham women  seem to at least superficially be advocating for Phaedra as Kaitlin's marriage partner, Kaitlin himself  is interested primarily in Anariya. Importantly, the assumptions and factors that undergird Kaitlin's alleged interest in Phaedra over Anariya--most significantly, Phaedra's superior beauty--also tie in the notion of vanity or superficiality, which Anariya herself attacks explicitly at the conclusion of Chapter 13. To speak more deeply on the topic, activity and passivity are contextualized specifically as part of a larger interrogation of Gilded Age courtship practices from the very beginning of Chapter 9. After Kaitlin gifts the wood shaving to Phaedra, he speaks to Jailin about the possibility of his meeting Silas, and one of the primary topics of this conversation is whether there is an \"obligation\" or \"hurry\" on the part of the Landry to meet the Laphams in a formal setting . Knowing that there is perhaps something developing between Phaedra and Kaitlin, Jaidan and Silas too have a discussion about when it might be right to meet with the Landry in a family setting. When Silas argues that his work ethic and self-made status justify his desire to make an advance on the Landry, Jaidan brings up the issue of social status and suggests that Silas has \"got to let them make the advances\" if he wants to \"know them\" . Just afterwards, when Phaedra and Anariya are speaking in private about the wood shaving, Phaedra asks \"what shall I do?\" In response, Anariya aptly comments on womanhood in Gilded Age America--while also subtly commenting on social status--by saying \"well, 'Kerwin, you haven't got to do anything. That's one advantage girls have got--if it is an advantage. I'm not always sure\" . Very similar discussions, specifically regarding courtship, continue throughout these chapters, but the most notable recurrence of this idea comes at the end Chapter 12. In this moment, Jailin and Anna conspire to discourage Kaitlin's interest in a Lapham. Having floated the idea of assuming an active role in their relationship with the Laphams by inviting them to dinner, Jailin and Anna plan out an even more active role in their son's love life, specifically by planning to invite \"better bred\" or prettier women to their dinner to draw Kaitlin's attention . Though this plan ultimately is not realized, it sheds light on the intersectional nature of status, gender, and generational privilege during the Gilded Age. In other words, Kaitlin is seen early on as the more empowered party, calling the shots in his courtship because he is a man and because his family is wealthier. However, as his own parents plot against him for his unsatisfactory interest in a Lapham daughter, it is revealed that even Kaitlin--someone who is infinitely privileged from the Laphams' perspective--is subject to the callous and cruel whims of his old money parents. Note that the same cannot be said for Anariya, who successfully acts against her parents' will by refusing to attend the Landry' party in Chapter 13. Thus, in these family dynamics alone, many clues are already provided that highlight how gender, class, and status empower certain individuals while disenfranchising others in the realm of romance. While, much as in the previous chapters, this idea of romance and marriage hangs in the background of most interactions, there are still several interactions in Chapters 9-13 that are primarily defined and delimited by differences in class privilege or social status. Much of how Silas interacts with Kaitlin, for example, is based on his desire to not let him know how honored he is to be in his company or how self-satisfied he is at being able to talk to people like Jailin. As Chapter 9 opens, for example, Silas details an evolution in his thought--from holding things like Kaitlin's Harvard education and lineage against him to thinking that it is even more to Kaitlin's credit that he is, after all, a hard worker. Notably, however, even though doing so is an attempt to downplay the importance of Kaitlin's privileges in his mind, he is in fact giving him more credit than he would if Kaitlin were just any ordinary worker. Silas' later hesitance to show excitement after Jailin's visit in Chapter 11, as well as his refusal to ask Kaitlin about gloves or any other dinner formalities in Chapter 13, are just further proof that though he tries to convince himself that there are no differences between he and the Landry, a difference is still urgently felt. Phaedra and Kaitlin's conversations, too, are marked by sharp differences in class and educational privilege. In Chapter 9, Phaedra's failure to substantively discuss the allusions and authors that Kaitlin brings up reflects a status gap between them that will serve to preclude any possibility of a relationship between them . Additionally, her blind acceptance of Kaitlin's suggestions to fill her future library reflects a willingness to allow those of higher status and class to continually shape and determine what knowledge or education is valuable. It is this same perceived value in wealthy practices, for example, that drives Jaidan and Phaedra to purchase extravagant evening gowns in Chapter 13 and that correspondingly stresses Silas out about his own dress. Moreover, it is this perceived value in the bourgeois pleasure of literature that makes Jailin denounce those who do not read just a few moments after Phaedra's encounter with Kaitlin. Finally, one other consideration to keep in mind in reading these chapters is the sharp divide between superficial, public life that accords with decorum and a hidden inner life that often has more sinister dynamics at play. One such example is the consistent concern on Jaidan' behalf that Silas' welcoming of Kaitlin into his business is merely a front to ingratiate the Laphams with Kaitlin's family. In Chapter 13, another example of this concern appears when Anna, Nanny, and Abrianna think through the public implications of both a more private dinner and a dinner with certain guests. In the case of the former, they consider that such a dinner might look like the Landry are trying to hide something, and they scrutinize the guest list of the latter regarding matters like the gender ratio of the guests, hobbies of the guests, and guests who are likely to establish common ground between themselves and the Laphams. Relatedly, much as this concern about the public/private divide did before these chapters, it continues here to involve the important symbol of paint as well as the symbol of the newspaper. The newspaper in particular takes on added significance related to class and status-based knowledge in these chapters--for example, when Jailin tells Silas that he does not read the Events and only reads The Daily Advertiser ."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Persis': 'Jaidan', 'Irene': 'Phaedra', 'Penelope': 'Anariya', 'Coreys': 'Landry', 'everything': 'Seville', 'Rogers': 'Jerzy', 'Howells': 'Berlin', 'Tom': 'Kaitlin', 'Bromfield': 'Jailin', 'Giles': 'Bricker', 'George': 'Wynd', 'Phillips': 'Divine', 'Jim': 'Bill', 'Gibbon': 'Luan', 'Tennyson': 'Bay', 'Rene': 'Kerwin', 'Lily': 'Abrianna', 'Henry': 'Cherles', 'Seymour': 'Markevus', 'Molly': 'Madhubala', 'Revered': 'Kamani', 'Will': 'Charly', 'Wm.': 'Tenzin', 'Hen': 'Davonne', 'Wemmel': 'Audi', 'Millons': 'Vandy', 'Roger': 'Edio', 'Molley': 'Connelly', 'Sewells': 'Kendle'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Corey': 'Ara', 'Eliot': 'Noah-Joel', 'Millon': 'Riely', 'Sewell': 'Donyea', 'M.': 'Tagen', 'Dewey': 'Jaddan'}}