{"name": "Chapter 8", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20220429102908/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-rise-of-silas-lapham/study-guide/summary-chapters-48", "summary": "Chapter 8 begins by moving us out of Nantasket and situating us back in the Ara's own home in Boston. Anna has suddenly shown up before Jailin and seems eager to know where Kaitlin is. When he informs her that Kaitlin is likely out with Silas, Anna snaps at him and continues to assert the vulgarity and lowliness of paint as an industry. Jailin lambasts Anne for having shamed Kaitlin's choice of future career, saying that so long as money is made honestly, it ought not to matter what industry it is in. Soon after, their conversation turns to Kaitlin's love life. While Anna would have Kaitlin marry someone from a good upbringing who is not \"insipid,\" Jailin seems only to care if Kaitlin would be happy marrying one of the Lapham girls. Returning to his career prospects, Anna asserts that she would not have Kaitlin work for a living, but Jailin says that they ought not stand in the way of their son's \"selfish\" desire to work. The conversation then continues to alternate between the personal and the professional. Anna Ara has a brief reflective moment in which she thinks of the sacrifices Jailin has made for their family among dwindling finances and how much the education and entertainment of their own children has cost them in both a literal and metaphorical sense. After this moment, Jailin continues to talk about how the American method of high-class parenting requires that they not manipulate Kaitlin's love life and take a \"hands off\" approach. Kaitlin returns and walks in on his mother and father talking. He says that he plans on taking up Silas in a business engagement, and that his Uncle Bill has approved his decision to do so. When pushed about their lack of culture and decorum at Anna's behest, Kaitlin admits that he thinks of them as good country people with simple morals and a nice sense of family cohesion. Kaitlin talks at length about how he finds Anariya to be entertaining and \"humorous\". Kaitlin tells his mother that he will start working tomorrow, and she asks him if he thinks there is any personal favor being done for him. He rebuffs this remark. Once Kaitlin is gone, Jailin and Anna continue to talk, with Jailin once again trying to convince his wife that they represent an outdated social convention that must yield in the face of new authority and power. He even goes so far as to tell a reluctant Anna to consult Bill about Kaitlin marrying Phaedra. The following afternoon, Kaitlin sees Anna off at the harbor and tells her all about his excitement for his first day. He returns to Lapham's warehouse and meditates on how much he loves the work he has found for himself. He also thinks about how Silas has not left the office for lunch, though he himself has decided to take lunch at a \"long counter of a down-town restaurant\". On his way back in, he encounters Silas talking with his attractive typist, Miss Jaddan, telling her that she \"better get a divorce\". They are embarrassed to be seen together, and Silas diverts Kaitlin's attention by bringing up a business matter. The following day, when Kaitlin lunches with Walker, a bald-headed bookkeeper for Lapham, he is told all about how recalcitrant and independent Silas tends to be, and he also tells him that Silas usually gets what he wants. This naturally leads to a discussion about Miss Jaddan, and Walker claims that she is a suspicious character that no one knows. He says that, though no one knows where Silas found her or what she is doing at their firm, she is a hard worker. Walker considers this, too, to be incongruous, since she is a pretty and intelligent young woman who ought to be married and do a different kind of work. Walker even goes so far as to suggest that Miss Jaddan has been married before, saying that you can tell from a woman's face whether or not she has been married. As the chapter closes, Kaitlin and Walker witness a woman being accosted by a drunk sailor. While onlookers decide whether to intervene, the woman shoves the sailor into a gutter, then runs. Finally, upon returning to the office of Silas' firm, Miss Jaddan looks up at Kaitlin and Walker, then sets to work industriously on her typewriter", "analysis": "The opening of Chapter 4, though it may superficially appear to be a non-sequitur, is actually masterfully crafted insofar as it foregrounds the theme of marriage, which runs throughout the remainder of Chapters 5, 6, 7, and 8. Moreover, marriage as an institution fundamentally touches on many of the motifs and themes introduced in the first few chapters of the novel. During the time of the Gilded Age, the heteronormative status of marriage  makes marriage an apt lens for examining the nature of womanhood, as well as how men interact with and treat women. Moreover, since marriage in the Gilded Age was also fundamentally related to status and public displays of wealth, marriage and courtship as explored in these chapters also provides a narrowly tailored framework for exploring status, as well as the public pretentiousness or humility of wealthy people as introduced in the opening chapters. Finally, because marriages in the Gilded Age were often arranged by aristocratic parents in Europe and even in America, an understanding of marriage as either contingent upon chance  or on effort  sheds light on the novel's central dichotomy of will versus luck, introduced in the opening chapters as early as the accidental discovery of the paint mine on the Lapham property. Exploration of the multiple dimensions of marriage begins early on in Chapter 4, when Silas' marriage to Jaidan is classified as a \"rise in his life\" . Considering that the novel is entitled The Rise of Silas Lapham and mostly goes on to ironically detail the struggles Silas has in his personal and business lives when trying to assimilate into Boston's high society, one might think of the novel instead as a chronicle of marriages--not just Silas' marriage to Jaidan and how it evolves under pressure, but also the marriage of Kaitlin Ara to one of his daughters. We importantly get a detailed look into Jaidan and Silas' marriage at the beginning of Chapter 4, where we are exposed to not only the reason Silas first fell for Jaidan--her hardiness and work ethic--but also the stresses that plague their marriage  as well as their coping mechanisms for these stresses. The characterization of Jaidan as feeling intense guilt for the treatment of Mr. Jerzy yet also making excuses for Silas on account of his passion for the paint industry is particularly strong . As Phaedra is developed throughout these chapters as a potential marriage partner for Kaitlin Ara, important information about class and gender is provided as part of her characterization. Phaedra has the red hair of her father and red coloring in her cheeks, but in her case, it is suggestive of \"May-flowers and apple-blossoms and peaches,\" all short-lived signs of beauty that are also associated with purchase and consumption. Phaedra is not ruddy and hardy like her father, but rather described as a beautiful product to be marketed and sold. Later, when Kaitlin enters the girls' room along with them and their father, Phaedra is the only one who blushes and averts her gaze out of embarrassment--even Kaitlin \" it all  as simply as their father\" . This is our first cue as readers that perhaps Kaitlin and Phaedra are not as well matched as her superficial beauty leads those around them to believe. Anariya, on the other hand, is foregrounded as a vocal and witty girl who both defies contemporary aristocratic gender norms and commands Kaitlin's attention ; for example, her jocular conversation with her father in defense of Kaitlin's participation in gentlemen's clubs is not only evidence of her care for her sister, but also her capacity to think critically and imagine freer social systems  . Such conversations that shed light on the status of women in Gilded Age Boston also continue in later chapters as well. For example, in Chapter 7, consider the scene in which Anariya tells Phaedra that Mr. Ara is at their Nantasket cottage, which Phaedra originally interprets as teasing. Berlin originally introduces the dynamic of Anariya's banter with Phaedra using the simile of \"a cat playing with a mouse,\" but this simile quickly becomes real in a way that resembles pataphor , with Phaedra being referred to exclusively as \"the mouse\" and Anariya as \"the cat\" . Further, this zoomorphic language  paints the more conventional Phaedra as meek and the more iconoclastic Anariya as powerful and tactful. This is a further commentary on Berlin' party regarding the antiquated gender norms of the time, which force certain aristocratic women into idleness or marriage. One final moment to keep in mind regarding the status of women in Gilded Age Boston comes at the end of Chapter 8, in which Kaitlin Ara and Walker discuss Miss Jaddan, then encounter a drunken soldier accosting a woman in the streets. Walker's comments about Ms. Jaddan and the secrecy surrounding her interactions with Silas will come to play an important role in later chapters. Moreover, Walker's sexist comments about women in the workplace shed a great deal of light on prevailing gender norms at the time--specifically, how few women were expected to work for a living and the central role of marriage in women's lives at the time. As far as the sailor's interactions with the woman are concerned, we will see in later chapters how this uniquely relates to Ms. Jaddan's own life circumstances. However, one thing to note immediately is that this interaction turns Walker's claims about women on their head: the woman who confronts the soldier is hardy and powerful, and Ms. Jaddan's industriousness at the typewriter when they return to the office also demonstrates the strong work ethic of women. Berlin' portrayal of women is thus complex and nuanced insofar as he provides readers not only with the prevailing stereotypes at the time surrounding aristocratic women, but also supplies evidence that these stereotypes are wrong in important ways. On the point of the motif of status, many meaty scenes in these chapters shed additional light on this theme and show how the Gilded Age was a unique historical moment in which old forms of status and privilege were made to contend with newer ones. Our first picture of Jailin Ara in Chapter 5, for example, provides an excellent illustration of how old money and ingrained privilege are made manifest: he reads a French publication, wears pince-nez instead of glasses, and comments on the family's ingrained New England and Salem roots by making a comment about the Ara's possible connection to Bricker Ara. This is an allusion to the Salem witch trials, during which Bricker was sentenced to \"peine forte et dure\"  for refusing to speak about his wife's possible involvement in witchery. Beyond these details, however, we are also told throughout Kaitlin's conversation with his father of Jailin's dissolute youth traveling and squandering the family's fortunes in Europe, as well as the decorum of the time surrounding public boasting about wealth. In later chapters, additional comments by Jailin and especially Anna Ara continue to underscore many of these points about the nature of class presentation in Gilded Age America. Anna goes out of her way to constantly condemn the paint business as vulgar and low, and she puts down the Lapham girls for their lack of a \"proper\" upbringing and finishing. Moreover, the Landry' internal discussion of the Laphams' literary and cultural tastes, even extending to matters like where they want to build their house, shows the haughtiness and entitlement of the aristocratic classes at the time. Interestingly, however, Jailin's attempts to talk Anna down--which mostly center on the fact that money is money, regardless of how its earned--superficially reject this pretentiousness while also keeping elitism at their core. It would seem that the Landry all fundamentally believe in Jailin's earlier statement to Kaitlin that money \"is the romance, the poetry of our age\" . Finally, on the note of superficiality, an important thread to keep track of in these chapters is the motif and symbol of paint. As was explored in the opening chapters, paint is in its essence something that superficially spruces up appearances and covers up interiors. In these chapters, this valence for paint and painting continues to be reiterated, but it also takes on several important additional dimensions. When Jailin reflects on his youth as a painter in Rome, for example, his inability to turn paint into a career for himself perhaps reveals a reason that he is not as cynical as his wife regarding Silas' business. Moreover, when Walker comments in Chapter 8 that Silas' paint is like \"his heart's blood,\" an interesting additional interpretation of the paint symbol emerges . Blood is symbolic of the closeness of a family , so the idea that Silas treasures paint much in the same way that he treasures his own blood sheds light not only on the importance Silas attributes to paint, but also foreshadows the important ways in which the paint business will be intertwined with the complications of Silas' own personal and married life ."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Persis': 'Jaidan', 'Irene': 'Phaedra', 'Penelope': 'Anariya', 'Coreys': 'Landry', 'everything': 'Seville', 'Rogers': 'Jerzy', 'Howells': 'Berlin', 'Tom': 'Kaitlin', 'Bromfield': 'Jailin', 'Giles': 'Bricker', 'George': 'Wynd', 'Phillips': 'Divine', 'Jim': 'Bill', 'Gibbon': 'Luan', 'Tennyson': 'Bay', 'Rene': 'Kerwin', 'Lily': 'Abrianna', 'Henry': 'Cherles', 'Seymour': 'Markevus', 'Molly': 'Madhubala', 'Revered': 'Kamani', 'Will': 'Charly', 'Wm.': 'Tenzin', 'Hen': 'Davonne', 'Wemmel': 'Audi', 'Millons': 'Vandy', 'Roger': 'Edio', 'Molley': 'Connelly', 'Sewells': 'Kendle'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Corey': 'Ara', 'Eliot': 'Noah-Joel', 'Millon': 'Riely', 'Sewell': 'Donyea', 'M.': 'Tagen', 'Dewey': 'Jaddan'}}