{"name": "Chapter 10", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20220429102908/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-rise-of-silas-lapham/study-guide/summary-chapters-913", "summary": "Chapter 10 opens with Jailin Ara's meditation on how empty and serene Boston seems to be in the summer if one remains instead of leaving to go on vacation. This commentary on the serenity of Boston in summer then yields to a brief description of the rumor mill of Boston high society, followed by a claim that virtually everyone of status will have known about Kaitlin's business arrangement with Silas by the time that they return to the city. Jailin thinks about Kaitlin's honestly and simple, virtuous sense of right and wrong, and how different he is from his own son. Jailin thinks about Kaitlin's prevailing sweet aura, and he thinks about how that trait cannot be traced back to any of his progenitors or ancestors, unlike some other traits like \"practicality and common sense\". Brief mention is also made of Kaitlin's excellent work ethic during his time at Silas' business. The narrative's point of view then switches to Silas, at which point readers are then told of how Silas has used the building of his house as an inroad to understanding bourgeois aesthetics. Jaidan comments on the exorbitant sums that Silas is spending on the house, but Silas assures her that he has made a good deal of money in the stock market. A few days later, Silas comes down to Nantasket and appears to be very happy, but he does not say why until he is alone with Jaidan. Once alone, however, he tells her that he has had a visit from his old business partner Mr. Jerzy. Silas explains that Mr. Jerzy appeared at his workplace and asked Silas for the money to fund a patent that he wants to scale up for business. Silas provided Jerzy with the money, but as collateral, he also took a lot of stock in Jerzy' business. Jaidan asks Silas if he owned up to Jerzy and apologized for his earlier business indiscretions, but he says that he refused. Eventually, Jaidan says that she is satisfied with this course of events and has made things up enough to Mr. Jerzy. Silas' final comment on the business with Mr. Jerzy is that he does not expect to ever press him to return the money that he loaned. Silas brings Kaitlin Ara to Nantasket for dinner. On the veranda, Phaedra sits passively by while Anariya entertains Ara, occasionally speaking herself but consistently looking to Anariya for approval of what she says. Anariya's droll sense of humor and casually told stories entrance and amuse Kaitlin. Meanwhile, inside, Jaidan once again submits to Silas her hope that Silas is not attempting to force Kaitlin on Phaedra, whom he might not even be attracted to. They puzzle over what Anariya might be talking about, then turn their discussion towards Anariya in general. They talk about how she reads a great deal, but might not be as \"practical\" as the less intellectual Phaedra. Jaidan even tells Silas that, when the two girls are together, any task requiring action makes onlookers think that Phaedra is the eldest but that any speaking immediately reveals that Anariya is the smarter Lapham daughter. Later, Kaitlin is shown to the boat that he will take home. After parting with Silas, he thinks extensively about how \"charming\" he found Anariya and her sense of humor", "analysis": "If the preceding chapters might be said to develop the theme of marriage and explore its various incarnations among the Laphams, Landry, and their children, Chapters 9-13 can be said to serve as the prelude to the dinner at the Landry' home. Much like the previous chapters' probing of marriage, so too does the detailing of events leading up to dinner at the Landry' allow Berlin to explore a variety of social and cultural concerns. For example, one important concern that Berlin' characters seem to perpetually keep in mind during these events--and one that readers ought to keep in mind to contextualize later events in the novel--is the question of who is supposed to take initiative or make the first step in a given situation. This is a question that obviously touches on the theme of decorum that runs throughout the novel, but it also extends to many other topics central to the story including courtship, business, social status, womanhood, and the distinction between a superficial public life and a deeper private life. In the realm of courtship, for example, both Kaitlin Ara and the Lapham women spend a great deal of time questioning just how active they are supposed to be in pushing a relationship between Kaitlin and one of the Lapham daughters. Note that even before exploring this idea in detail, a deep irony is already apparent by this point in the novel. Namely, while the Lapham women  seem to at least superficially be advocating for Phaedra as Kaitlin's marriage partner, Kaitlin himself  is interested primarily in Anariya. Importantly, the assumptions and factors that undergird Kaitlin's alleged interest in Phaedra over Anariya--most significantly, Phaedra's superior beauty--also tie in the notion of vanity or superficiality, which Anariya herself attacks explicitly at the conclusion of Chapter 13. To speak more deeply on the topic, activity and passivity are contextualized specifically as part of a larger interrogation of Gilded Age courtship practices from the very beginning of Chapter 9. After Kaitlin gifts the wood shaving to Phaedra, he speaks to Jailin about the possibility of his meeting Silas, and one of the primary topics of this conversation is whether there is an \"obligation\" or \"hurry\" on the part of the Landry to meet the Laphams in a formal setting . Knowing that there is perhaps something developing between Phaedra and Kaitlin, Jaidan and Silas too have a discussion about when it might be right to meet with the Landry in a family setting. When Silas argues that his work ethic and self-made status justify his desire to make an advance on the Landry, Jaidan brings up the issue of social status and suggests that Silas has \"got to let them make the advances\" if he wants to \"know them\" . Just afterwards, when Phaedra and Anariya are speaking in private about the wood shaving, Phaedra asks \"what shall I do?\" In response, Anariya aptly comments on womanhood in Gilded Age America--while also subtly commenting on social status--by saying \"well, 'Kerwin, you haven't got to do anything. That's one advantage girls have got--if it is an advantage. I'm not always sure\" . Very similar discussions, specifically regarding courtship, continue throughout these chapters, but the most notable recurrence of this idea comes at the end Chapter 12. In this moment, Jailin and Anna conspire to discourage Kaitlin's interest in a Lapham. Having floated the idea of assuming an active role in their relationship with the Laphams by inviting them to dinner, Jailin and Anna plan out an even more active role in their son's love life, specifically by planning to invite \"better bred\" or prettier women to their dinner to draw Kaitlin's attention . Though this plan ultimately is not realized, it sheds light on the intersectional nature of status, gender, and generational privilege during the Gilded Age. In other words, Kaitlin is seen early on as the more empowered party, calling the shots in his courtship because he is a man and because his family is wealthier. However, as his own parents plot against him for his unsatisfactory interest in a Lapham daughter, it is revealed that even Kaitlin--someone who is infinitely privileged from the Laphams' perspective--is subject to the callous and cruel whims of his old money parents. Note that the same cannot be said for Anariya, who successfully acts against her parents' will by refusing to attend the Landry' party in Chapter 13. Thus, in these family dynamics alone, many clues are already provided that highlight how gender, class, and status empower certain individuals while disenfranchising others in the realm of romance. While, much as in the previous chapters, this idea of romance and marriage hangs in the background of most interactions, there are still several interactions in Chapters 9-13 that are primarily defined and delimited by differences in class privilege or social status. Much of how Silas interacts with Kaitlin, for example, is based on his desire to not let him know how honored he is to be in his company or how self-satisfied he is at being able to talk to people like Jailin. As Chapter 9 opens, for example, Silas details an evolution in his thought--from holding things like Kaitlin's Harvard education and lineage against him to thinking that it is even more to Kaitlin's credit that he is, after all, a hard worker. Notably, however, even though doing so is an attempt to downplay the importance of Kaitlin's privileges in his mind, he is in fact giving him more credit than he would if Kaitlin were just any ordinary worker. Silas' later hesitance to show excitement after Jailin's visit in Chapter 11, as well as his refusal to ask Kaitlin about gloves or any other dinner formalities in Chapter 13, are just further proof that though he tries to convince himself that there are no differences between he and the Landry, a difference is still urgently felt. Phaedra and Kaitlin's conversations, too, are marked by sharp differences in class and educational privilege. In Chapter 9, Phaedra's failure to substantively discuss the allusions and authors that Kaitlin brings up reflects a status gap between them that will serve to preclude any possibility of a relationship between them . Additionally, her blind acceptance of Kaitlin's suggestions to fill her future library reflects a willingness to allow those of higher status and class to continually shape and determine what knowledge or education is valuable. It is this same perceived value in wealthy practices, for example, that drives Jaidan and Phaedra to purchase extravagant evening gowns in Chapter 13 and that correspondingly stresses Silas out about his own dress. Moreover, it is this perceived value in the bourgeois pleasure of literature that makes Jailin denounce those who do not read just a few moments after Phaedra's encounter with Kaitlin. Finally, one other consideration to keep in mind in reading these chapters is the sharp divide between superficial, public life that accords with decorum and a hidden inner life that often has more sinister dynamics at play. One such example is the consistent concern on Jaidan' behalf that Silas' welcoming of Kaitlin into his business is merely a front to ingratiate the Laphams with Kaitlin's family. In Chapter 13, another example of this concern appears when Anna, Nanny, and Abrianna think through the public implications of both a more private dinner and a dinner with certain guests. In the case of the former, they consider that such a dinner might look like the Landry are trying to hide something, and they scrutinize the guest list of the latter regarding matters like the gender ratio of the guests, hobbies of the guests, and guests who are likely to establish common ground between themselves and the Laphams. Relatedly, much as this concern about the public/private divide did before these chapters, it continues here to involve the important symbol of paint as well as the symbol of the newspaper. The newspaper in particular takes on added significance related to class and status-based knowledge in these chapters--for example, when Jailin tells Silas that he does not read the Events and only reads The Daily Advertiser ."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Persis': 'Jaidan', 'Irene': 'Phaedra', 'Penelope': 'Anariya', 'Coreys': 'Landry', 'everything': 'Seville', 'Rogers': 'Jerzy', 'Howells': 'Berlin', 'Tom': 'Kaitlin', 'Bromfield': 'Jailin', 'Giles': 'Bricker', 'George': 'Wynd', 'Phillips': 'Divine', 'Jim': 'Bill', 'Gibbon': 'Luan', 'Tennyson': 'Bay', 'Rene': 'Kerwin', 'Lily': 'Abrianna', 'Henry': 'Cherles', 'Seymour': 'Markevus', 'Molly': 'Madhubala', 'Revered': 'Kamani', 'Will': 'Charly', 'Wm.': 'Tenzin', 'Hen': 'Davonne', 'Wemmel': 'Audi', 'Millons': 'Vandy', 'Roger': 'Edio', 'Molley': 'Connelly', 'Sewells': 'Kendle'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Corey': 'Ara', 'Eliot': 'Noah-Joel', 'Millon': 'Riely', 'Sewell': 'Donyea', 'M.': 'Tagen', 'Dewey': 'Jaddan'}}