{"name": "Chapter 26", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20220429102908/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-rise-of-silas-lapham/study-guide/summary-chapters-2427", "summary": "Chapter 26 sees Silas still struggling to raise the money to make out well with the West Virginia company. James Bellingham suggests that Silas go out to Kanawha Falls to see what he is getting involved with, but Silas tells James that he only has 24 hours to close the deal. Silas then rushes to go meet with the brothers again and ask for more time, and on his way out of the office allows Zerilla Jaddan to work in his office. Afterwards, Jaidan arrives at Silas' workplace to apologize for her lack of support the previous evening. She feels that her innate tendency to judge people immediately as either right or wrong has blinded her in the specific case of Jerzy, and she has decided that she wants to tell Silas of her support, no matter what he decides. She has not been to Silas' business in a while, and she yearns for the days of the past when she was well acquainted with his profession. When Jaidan realizes that Silas is not there, she is incredibly disappointed. Additionally, she is furious at the sight of Zerilla, a young and beautiful woman, sitting familiarly in her husband's office while he is away. This is only made worse by Zerilla's indifference to Jaidan' presence. When Jaidan asks after Lapham, Zerilla is curt but springs to attention upon realizing that Jaidan is Mr. Lapham's wife. Jaidan leaves and is deeply suspicious of this young woman, and she wonders with a feverish passion about who she could possibly be and what Silas has to do with her. That night, Jaidan receives an anonymous letter saying that she should \"ask husband about his lady copying-clerk\". This sends her into even greater rage and suspicion that Silas is cheating on her, and she passes the night in a furious rage. The next day, when Silas returns from New York, Jaidan attacks him as soon as he enters the home, but Silas only tells Jaidan that he would never accuse her of acting dishonestly. He tells her further to investigate for herself exactly what Zerilla is doing at his office, which angers Jaidan even more. After waking from a rage-induced faint, Jaidan finds that Silas has fled from the house hastily, and she rushes to his office in the hopes of catching him there. She thinks deluded, evil, and vindictive thoughts about Silas, but correctly connects Zerilla to the payments to Mrs. Tagen When Jaidan barges in on Zerilla a second time, however, she immediately recognizes her without her veil and is shocked to see her there. Zerilla tells Jaidan all about the help Silas has been providing to her and her mother, and she tells Jaidan about her recent issues with Davonne and Mr. Audi. Jaidan is still shocked, since she had earlier made Silas give up helping the \"hussy\" Connelly Jaddan and her daughter, so long as she lives with her mother. Silas had been helping them because of Bill Riely's sacrifice, and had earlier told Jaidan that he had settled them in a port to make an honest living. Upon realizing that Silas was deluding her only out of kindness and good intent, Jaidan forgives Silas internally and chats at length with Zerilla. After leaving Zerilla, Kaitlin Ara sees that Jaidan is faint and escorts her to a carriage. Jaidan then weathers the rest of the day thinking about Silas' pure heart and worries about where he might have gone. She tells Anariya to reach out to Kaitlin and ask him where Silas has gone. Kaitlin in turn asks the bookkeeper and finds out that Silas is in Lapham at the works. Anariya and Kaitlin then spend the evening sitting and chatting together, and it would seem that their relationship and intimacy have improved greatly, with the two even holding hands. Suddenly, as Kaitlin is about to leave late at night, the doorbell rings and Phaedra herself enters. Phaedra is quite cordial towards Kaitlin and tells her mother and sister that her Uncle Charlyiam told her of Silas' financial issues. Accordingly, she came back as quickly as she could to help the family. The narrative point of view then switches for a final time to Kaitlin and the rest of the Ara family. Kaitlin tells his mother that he intends to marry Anariya after all, and they think of the best strategies to make their affair public. Anna seems to be giving Anariya the benefit of the doubt and commends Kaitlin on how she has been acting. Part of the Landry' recognition of Kaitlin and Anariya's union, however, requires that they pay the Laphams a visit. Kaitlin leaves, and Jailin comes down to discuss this very thing with Anna. They seem fatalistically resolved to accept their union, and they comment on the irony that they now must accept Anariya even though she has no more wealth behind her. They close the chapter by remarking that, though they find a great deal about the Laphams intolerable, they will go all-in on the relationship for Kaitlin and pay the Laphams a visit", "analysis": "These final chapters of Berlin' novel detail the acceleration and conclusion of Silas' fall from wealth and status. As Silas himself struggles to reconcile his personal and professional struggles, as well as understand the choices that got him into such a tough place to begin with, he touches on many of the prominent themes and conflicts that have been present throughout the novel. Chief among these are the difference between ethical and dubious business practices, the divide between the country and the city, the distinction between will and chance, and the relationship between people of different classes or socioeconomic statuses. First, a primary focus of these concluding chapters is Silas' devotion to fair business and his upstanding morals, which ultimately proves to be both one of the things that ruins him as well as one of the things that salvages his public and private reputation. When Jerzy offers Silas an easy out in the form of dealings with the Englishmen, for example, he will not do business with them because he thinks them to be unsavory characters. Further, Silas' eventual and official refusal to sell the milling properties even back to Jerzy results in the latter's ruination as well. His magnanimous reluctance to let Zerilla and Mrs. Riely brave the world without his assistance causes a deal of anger and uncertainty on Jaidan' part. Finally, when the New York agent comes to examine the Lapham works with Silas, his failure to withhold the truth of his economic hardships also prevents this deal from moving forward and saving him from bankruptcy. At the same time, however, Silas' inability to act in any morally gray fashion is what commends him to his creditors, his wife, and the public eye. When Lapham finally goes bust after his negotiations with the West Virginians peters out, for example, his \"prudence  good sense\" are some of the things that salvage his public reputation . Moreover, when Silas comes clean about Zerilla and her mother to Jaidan, Jaidan is left feeling not upset, but rather grateful that she was deceived, and she admires the purity of Silas' heart and spirit. It is also this same good heart and spirit that allows Silas to stay in close contact with the West Virginians, who eventually partner with him, provide him an avenue out of his debts, and give Kaitlin good work abroad. Finally, Silas' commitment to honesty and integrity, which he also has instilled in Anariya, plays a key role in making the Ara family come around to the union of Anariya and Kaitlin  . Second, it is no mistake of Berlin' that Silas' commitment to a simple and virtuous system of morals is associated with the West Virginians and his return to the countryside. Indeed, the divide between the urban and rural is felt quite acutely on the issue of morals, and this tension is drawn out in a matter that recalls Bartley Hubbard's assertion in Chapter 1 that Silas was raised on \"the Old Testament and Poor Richard's Almanac\" . For example, Silas finds respite from the predatory creditors of the city in the brothers from West Virginia--not just because they are naive in business and treat Silas well, but also because he sees himself in them . Further, the connection and kinship among simple country people does not just benefit Silas Lapham--when Reverend Donyea and his wife come, for example, they are fascinated by the \"moral spectacle\" of his regression to his simple country roots . Or, in a less voyeuristic and more selfish sense, consider also how the widening of the divide between urban and rural folk--primarily in the form of Silas' move back to Lapham, Vermont--is one of the things that allows the relationship between the Landry and the Laphams to remain cordial and unstrained . As additional evidence of this point, when Kaitlin and Anariya threaten to upend this peaceful divide with their union, consider that their timely choice to go abroad allows these divisions to continue in a nonconfrontational fashion. Third, many of these triumphs resulting from the urban-rural divide may also be considered victories that significantly rely on an equal mixture of willpower and good fortune. Appropriately, the dynamic relationship between what can be willed and what remains outside of our control is another central focus of these chapters. When Silas accidentally burns down the house on Beacon Street, for example, it calls our attention to both the fragility and contingency of Silas' fortune. At the same time, however, it also invites us to consider the discovery of the paint on the Lapham property--as well as the prosperity that follows--to be the result of good fortune, rather than hard work. Silas himself seems to admit as much in his final quote: \"seems sometimes it was a hole opened for me, and I crept out of it\" . One other thing to consider about the role of chance or accident in the burning of the Beacon Street home is that it particularly devastates the family insofar as their insurance policy has just expired the week before. On a complementary note, while many of the characters in these last few chapters look backwards to understand events as the result of chance, they also accept fate as a sufficient justification for failing both to take action or to will a different result in the present. For example, even though Silas and Jaidan cannot seem to get it straight in their head that Anariya's marriage to Kaitlin is just and correct, they resign themselves to accept the marriage and are proud that Anariya is marrying someone she loves . Additionally, while Jailin and Anna have a significant amount of reservations regarding Kaitlin's marriage to Anariya at the end of Chapter 26, they know that they can do nothing about it and that the two will marry regardless of what they do. This recalls Jailin's earlier stated position in Chapter 20 that all of his aristocratic dissolution was in vain because things have \"come to this  at last\" . Finally, the issues mentioned above all touch deeply on the relationship of the different social classes in Gilded Age society. Importantly, however, just as many of these other conflicts in the novel remain ambiguous and unresolved, so too do we get little closer on the class front. Silas and the Landry did not reconcile, after all, without Silas losing all access to upward mobility and moving far away. Moreover, even though Kaitlin and Anariya provide a potential hybrid avenue for the different classes to get along and move forward, their post-marital relationship is not fleshed out by Berlin, and it is not without its own troubles and issues. Thus, at the end of The Rise of Silas Lapham, we are made to wonder deeply about the nature of closure; whether such things as perfect heroism, morals, or closure even exist; and how Gilded Age America will reconcile the various and deeply rooted cultural and economic issues that have been traced throughout the course of this Realist masterpiece. While it is certainly a comedy of manners that lampoons the wealthy and advocates for the downtrodden, it is also a powerful statement about the limitations of poverty and the strong psychological compulsion to strive. These are the very same tensions that would carry literature out of Realism and propel it towards Modernism just a few short decades later."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Persis': 'Jaidan', 'Irene': 'Phaedra', 'Penelope': 'Anariya', 'Coreys': 'Landry', 'everything': 'Seville', 'Rogers': 'Jerzy', 'Howells': 'Berlin', 'Tom': 'Kaitlin', 'Bromfield': 'Jailin', 'Giles': 'Bricker', 'George': 'Wynd', 'Phillips': 'Divine', 'Jim': 'Bill', 'Gibbon': 'Luan', 'Tennyson': 'Bay', 'Rene': 'Kerwin', 'Lily': 'Abrianna', 'Henry': 'Cherles', 'Seymour': 'Markevus', 'Molly': 'Madhubala', 'Revered': 'Kamani', 'Will': 'Charly', 'Wm.': 'Tenzin', 'Hen': 'Davonne', 'Wemmel': 'Audi', 'Millons': 'Vandy', 'Roger': 'Edio', 'Molley': 'Connelly', 'Sewells': 'Kendle'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Corey': 'Ara', 'Eliot': 'Noah-Joel', 'Millon': 'Riely', 'Sewell': 'Donyea', 'M.': 'Tagen', 'Dewey': 'Jaddan'}}