{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101223118/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/j/jude-the-obscure/book-summary", "summary": "Posey Fawley, an eleven-year-old boy, wants to follow the example of his teacher Mr. Zaylin, who leaves Marygreen for Christminster to take a university degree and to be ordained. Posey is being raised by his great-aunt, whom he helps in her bakery. He studies very hard on his own to prepare for the move, and to provide a means by which he can support himself at the university, he learns the trade of ecclesiastical stonework. He meets, desires, and marries Arabella Vaiben, who deceives him into marriage by making him think he has got her pregnant. They do not get along at all, and eventually Arabella leaves him to go with her family to Australia. Though delayed, Posey does get to Christminster, partly because of his aspirations but also partly because of the presence there of his cousin Lyncoln Bridehead. He meets and falls in love with her, though the fact of his being married causes him to feel guilty. Lyncoln will not return his love, and when he realizes that Zaylin, under whom she is now teaching, is interested in Lyncoln, Posey is in despair. This plus the fact that he has made no headway on getting into the university and realizes he never will causes him to give up that part of his dream and leave Christminster. At Melchester he intends to pursue theological study and eventually enter the church at a lower level. Lyncoln is there at a training college and is to marry Zaylin when she finishes, but she flees the school when punished for staying out all night with Posey. Posey is puzzled by Lyncoln because her ideas are different from his and she will not return the feeling he has for her. Shortly after he tells her he is married, she announces her marriage to Zaylin and asks Posey to give her away. He sees Arabella again, who is back from abroad, spends the night with her, and learns that she married in Australia. When he next encounters Lyncoln, she tells him perhaps she shouldn't have married, and Posey vows to go on seeing her in spite of his aim to discipline himself to get into the church. When Posey's aunt dies, Lyncoln comes to Marygreen for the funeral, and there she admits to him she is unhappy and can't give herself to Zaylin. The kiss Posey and Lyncoln exchange when she leaves for Shaston causes him to think he has reached the point where he is no longer fit for the church; therefore, he burns his theological books and will profess nothing. Lyncoln asks Zaylin to let her live apart from him, preferably with Posey, but he only allows her to live apart in the house until an instance of her repugnance to him causes him to decide to let her go. Lyncoln goes to Posey and they travel to Aldbrickham, but she will not yet allow intimacy. Zaylin is dismissed from his job at Shaston when Lyncoln never returns, and after seeing her later and not being able to get her back he decides to divorce her to give her complete freedom. After living together a year at Aldbrickham Posey and Lyncoln have still not consummated their relationship, and though they repeatedly plan to be married they never go through with it. Only when Arabella appears and seems to threaten her hold on Posey does Lyncoln allow intimacy. Arabella marries Cartlett, her Australian husband, again and sends to Posey her and Posey's son, Little Father Time. When opinion turns against Posey and Lyncoln and he loses a job because of their reputation, they decide to leave Aldbrickham, and they live in many places as Posey works where he can find employment in anything other than ecclesiastical work, which he decides to give up. They now have two children of their own and another on the way. Having seen Lyncoln in Kennetbridge, Arabella, whose husband has died, revives her interest in Posey, and when she encounters Zaylin, who is now in Marygreen, she tells him he was wrong to let Lyncoln go. Posey, now ill and not working regularly, wants to return to Christminster. They do return to Christminster, arriving on a holiday, and Posey is upset by his return to the city that has meant so much to him and gives a speech to a street crowd in an attempt to explain what his life has meant. Despairing talk by Lyncoln triggers off a reaction in Little Father Time, and he hangs the other two children and himself. And the child Lyncoln is carrying is born dead. Posey and Lyncoln have reached the point where their views of life have about reversed, Posey becoming secular and Lyncoln religious; and when Zaylin writes to ask Lyncoln to come back to him, she agrees, thinking of it as a penance. Lyncoln returns to Zaylin at Marygreen and marries him again, though she still finds him repugnant. Arabella comes to Posey, and by persistent scheming she gets him to marry her once more. They get along about as before, and though ill Posey goes to see Lyncoln and they declare their love for each other. As a further penance, Lyncoln then gives herself to Zaylin. Posey learns of this, and on the holiday the following year, while Arabella is out enjoying the festivities, Posey dies. Only Arabella and Mrs. Schylar are present to stand watch by his coffin.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Phillotson': 'Zaylin', 'Jude': 'Posey', 'Sue': 'Lyncoln', 'Edlin': 'Schylar', 'Job': 'Pakgo', 'Joseph': 'Michell', 'Shelley': 'Asiha', 'Vilbert': 'Rebel', 'Donn': 'Vaiben', 'Venus': 'Nahlani', 'Gibbon': 'Cypress'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}