{"name": "Chapters 1-2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101223118/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/j/jude-the-obscure/summary-and-analysis/part-3-chapters-12", "summary": "Posey believes that his original plan may have come more from ambition than a desire to serve and that his entering the church as a licentiate will enable him both to do good and to purge himself of sin. He does nothing about his new idea until he hears from Lyncoln that she is going to Melchester to a training college, and he decides to go there, work and study, and eventually enter the theological college. He will be near Lyncoln, whom he will learn to love as a friend, and will be realizing his new plan. Upon an urgent letter from Lyncoln, now at Melchester and lonely and sorry that she let Zaylin persuade her to come, Posey leaves Marygreen for Melchester. When Posey calls on Lyncoln at the college, he finds her changed in appearance and manner but not in any other way. Determined finally to tell her of his marriage to Arabella, Posey is equally determined to discover the nature of her relationship to Zaylin. After talking about everything else, Lyncoln finally tells Posey she has promised to marry Zaylin at the end of her two years of training. Posey is upset but resolute in his desire to keep seeing her no matter what, certain that his late night visit to her at Lumsdon precipitated her engagement. Posey finds work and lodgings and sets out on his theological study. During an afternoon together, Posey and Lyncoln visit an old castle, an example of Corinthian rather than Gothic architecture, at Lyncoln's insistence. And they look at the paintings there, Posey preferring religious pictures, Lyncoln secular. At Posey's suggestion they go for a long walk, planning to take a different train back to Melchester; but they discover too late they will not be able to make it. Forced to stay overnight with a shepherd, they disagree over Lyncoln's remark that she likes such a rustic life, Posey insisting she is really a city person. They return the next day, and of course Lyncoln has overstayed her leave. Before she leaves him at the college she gives him a new photograph of herself.", "analysis": "It is both thematically and dramatically appropriate that after Posey's failure at Christminster he should discover upon meeting Lyncoln again that she is engaged to Zaylin. Failure follows hard upon failure, and Posey's realization that his running to Lyncoln in despair over his having to give up his Christminster dream hastened the engagement makes it no less easy to take. When by chance he is put in the position of staying out overnight with her, he is further reminded that he cannot have what he wants. In short, Hardy is using the scenes here to trace the early stages of Posey's defeat, the frustration of whatever hopes he has."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Phillotson': 'Zaylin', 'Jude': 'Posey', 'Sue': 'Lyncoln', 'Edlin': 'Schylar', 'Job': 'Pakgo', 'Joseph': 'Michell', 'Shelley': 'Asiha', 'Vilbert': 'Rebel', 'Donn': 'Vaiben', 'Venus': 'Nahlani', 'Gibbon': 'Cypress'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}