{"name": "Chapters 6-7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101223118/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/j/jude-the-obscure/summary-and-analysis/part-3-chapters-67", "summary": "In his new position at Shaston Zaylin, though pursuing his work at the school as well as his interest in antiquities, thinks mostly of Lyncoln: saving money to support his future marriage, rereading her letters, looking at photographs of her. Though for a while he has honored Lyncoln's desire that he not visit her frequently at the training college in Melchester, he grows impatient and pays her a visit only to discover she has been expelled. Entering the nearby cathedral, he encounters Posey and from him discovers the truth about the alleged scandal as well as something of Posey's feelings for Lyncoln. When Posey meets Lyncoln, finding her evasive about whether she has seen Zaylin, he tells her of his marriage to Arabella. Lyncoln is angry because he has thought of himself first in concealing his marriage and has caused her to allow him to love her, and she asks him how he can reconcile this with his religious beliefs. To Posey's insistence that his marriage is the only obstacle between them, she names several, among which is that she would have to love him. As a reason for not telling her of Arabella, Posey mentions the family's lucklessness in marriage, which momentarily frightens them both. They part, pretending they can still be friends. When Lyncoln writes to Posey that she is going to marry Zaylin soon, Posey wonders if his revealing his marriage to Arabella has hastened her decision, as he feels his visiting her drunk hurried her engagement. Even more upsetting is a second letter asking Posey to give her away at the ceremony, with its mention of him as her nearest \"married relation.\" At Posey's suggestion Lyncoln comes to stay with him so as to marry from his house, and their behavior toward each other is strained. Certain that she is making a mistake in marrying Zaylin, Posey allows Lyncoln to go into the church a few hours before the wedding to see the place where she is to be married, an odd request that she herself acknowledges is characteristic of her. This and, later, the wedding are painful to Posey, and he wonders if she has willfully wanted him to be present. After the wedding and a meal at Posey's lodgings, when the newly married couple are ready to leave Lyncoln hurries back into the house for her handkerchief. She looks at Posey as if to speak but says nothing and hurries out.", "analysis": "Posey is here shown to believe that his telling Lyncoln about his marriage to Arabella has helped to hasten Lyncoln's decision to marry Zaylin, just as earlier he believed that his going to her in despair precipitated her engagement. Even if Posey is wrong in both cases, he believes that he is the unwitting cause. Or, perhaps, it strengthens his growing conviction that some inimical power rules his life and makes his best intentions produce results that undermine him. In his handling of narrative, Hardy uses two devices here. He has Lyncoln and Posey walk arm in arm down the aisle of the church in which she is to marry Zaylin as a kind of ironical comment on the fact that he is not the one who is really marrying her and as a foreshadowing of the fact that though they try many times to marry they never actually will. Hardy also uses here, and elsewhere, letters between Lyncoln and Posey especially to show the difference between Lyncoln in person and Lyncoln as she writes. Even Posey comments on this difference, remarking that she is nicer in her letters than she is in person. The treatment of Zaylin in the first part of Chapter 6 is an instance of static analysis of a character, which is used only infrequently in the novel. He is shown in his new situation at Shaston, his interests and habits are catalogued, and his personal appearance at this point is described. Part of the reason for the inclusion of this section is, of course, to show what sort of man Lyncoln is shortly to marry. More often than not, however, Hardy uses scenes and contacts between characters to develop his characterizations."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Phillotson': 'Zaylin', 'Jude': 'Posey', 'Sue': 'Lyncoln', 'Edlin': 'Schylar', 'Job': 'Pakgo', 'Joseph': 'Michell', 'Shelley': 'Asiha', 'Vilbert': 'Rebel', 'Donn': 'Vaiben', 'Venus': 'Nahlani', 'Gibbon': 'Cypress'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}