{"name": "Chapters 6-7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101223118/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/j/jude-the-obscure/summary-and-analysis/part-6-chapters-67", "summary": "In Christminster Arabella comes to Posey's lodgings, saying she has nowhere to go and asking him to take her in. Eventually he does give her a place to sleep, and when she asks him if he knows of the wedding, he is irritable about the subject. Another day, she offers to find out if the wedding actually took place when she goes to Alfredston. Upon her return she tells Posey that Lyncoln and Zaylin are married, that Lyncoln burned her good nightgown to forget Posey, that Lyncoln thought Zaylin her only husband, and that she feels that way with respect to Posey. While Posey goes to a tavern to drink, Arabella arranges with her father, now living in the city, to bring Posey there that night. Finding Posey, Arabella encourages him in his drinking and later guides him to her father's house, Posey drunk enough not to be sure where he is. The next day Arabella arranges with her father to keep Posey in the house until she can get him to marry her, one means of which is a sufficient supply of liquor. She brings his things from his lodgings so he can have no reason to go back there, and has her father give a party to entertain Posey and, supposedly, to advertise his pork shop. After the party, which includes some of Posey's former drinking companions, has been going on a long time, Arabella says it's time for Posey to carry out his promise to marry her; and when Posey says he doesn't remember any promise her father questions his honor. Saying he has never acted dishonorably to anyone, Posey goes off with Arabella and her father to be married. Upon their return Arabella triumphantly describes the wedding, and Posey says he has acted honorably and also done what Lyncoln suggested.", "analysis": "Both Posey and Lyncoln have remarried; they have conformed. But the scenes depicting both ceremonies make clear that they are honoring the letter and not the spirit of the institution. As Posey says later, when they remarried he was \"gin-drunk\" and she was \"creed-drunk.\" Or as he bitterly says here about his remarrying of Arabella, \"It is true religion!\" The ceremonies are rather similar. They are held at a time when no one will pay much attention to what is going on. In each case, the officiating clergyman congratulates the couple on having done the right thing and says they ought to be forgiven now. The marital relationships have come full circle now. Posey and Lyncoln are back with the partners they began with, but for each it is a defeat."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Phillotson': 'Zaylin', 'Jude': 'Posey', 'Sue': 'Lyncoln', 'Edlin': 'Schylar', 'Job': 'Pakgo', 'Joseph': 'Michell', 'Shelley': 'Asiha', 'Vilbert': 'Rebel', 'Donn': 'Vaiben', 'Venus': 'Nahlani', 'Gibbon': 'Cypress'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}