{"name": "Chapters 3-5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101223118/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/j/jude-the-obscure/summary-and-analysis/part-3-chapters-35", "summary": "At the training college the previous evening there is a good deal of talk about Lyncoln and her young man. The year before a student was seduced by a young man who claimed to be the girl's cousin, so there is some doubt about the fact that Posey is supposed to be Lyncoln's cousin. After Lyncoln does come in the next morning, the girls learn she has been severely punished, and they make a protest, only to learn that inquiries made have revealed Lyncoln has no cousin. That evening they learn that Lyncoln has gone, presumably climbing out of a back window and crossing a river. Lyncoln turns up at Posey's lodgings wet and asking for help. He gives her a suit of his clothes until hers can dry, and after taking some brandy she falls asleep. When Lyncoln awakens, she and Posey talk through much of the night, the conversation beginning with what Lyncoln has read and why. She says her unusual taste in books came from a Christminster undergraduate with whom she had a \"friendly intimacy.\" She looked upon the two of them as intellectual companions and after she had agreed to live with him in London was surprised that he meant as a mistress. They did live together, and the young man accused her of cruelty in not yielding to him. When Posey says he believes her as innocent as she is unconventional, she replies she has never had a lover and is proud of it, though he says that not all women are like her. Lyncoln refuses to pray with Posey, his usual evening custom, and goes on to criticize both the religious and intellectual life of Christminster, pointing out that Posey is the very kind of person for whom the colleges were founded. Posey says he can do without Christminster and prefers something \"higher\"; Lyncoln retorts that she wants something \"broader, truer.\" After Posey says his prayers Lyncoln speaks of the new New Testament she made for herself by rearranging the books into chronological order and decries the attempt to falsify or misrepresent the contents of the Bible. She promises not to disturb his convictions but says she hoped when she met him that he might be the man whom she had always wanted to \"ennoble\" to \"high aims\" but he is too traditional. Posey wishes he could see her as other than a woman because she would make a fascinating companion. In the morning Lyncoln, uncertain as to what she will do and what Zaylin will think, decides to visit a friend near Shaston until her disgrace has been forgotten. Before she leaves, Posey wants to tell her that he has been married and that he loves her, but she guesses the latter and says he mustn't love her. But as soon as she reaches Shaston she writes him, telling him that she has been cruel and that he may love her if he wishes. Not hearing from her for several days, Posey goes to Shaston, to discover she has not written him because of the reason for her not being readmitted to the training college: it is said she has been intimate with Posey. Lyncoln accuses him of mistreating her by not revealing that he loves her, and though he realizes he is even more to blame because he is married he still doesn't tell her about Arabella. He is puzzled by her annoyance at his saying that of course she can't care about him because of Zaylin. And he is both puzzled and pleased the next day when she writes to ask forgiveness for the way she treated him when he called on her as well as to tell him she would like to see him when she comes to Melchester.", "analysis": "Though Hardy's handling of point of view is conventional for his time, it is noteworthy that the first part of Chapter 3 is not told from the point of view of any of the main characters, a practice which he follows in most of the novel. Much of the time, of course, the point of view is appropriately centered in Posey. Bringing Posey and Lyncoln together, after she flees the training college, enables Hardy further to develop the difference in their views of the world, a difference established earlier in the novel. It is true that Posey and Lyncoln are, in a sense, counterparts, as Posey remarks; they are both sensitive and thoughtful. But Posey is still the conventional Christian in belief, though these beliefs have been little consolation to him in his times of crisis, and Lyncoln is an agnostic, complaining of the way the Bible is falsified. Lyncoln will not join Posey in his prayers, refusing to be a hypocrite, as she puts it. And she explains the way in which she has rearranged her New Testament in chronological order. She is also critical of the Christminster Posey so much admires. She says that \"intellect at Christminster is new wine in old bottles\" and that Posey, unable to enter academic life, is the very kind of man for whom the colleges were founded. She professes a freedom of thought which cannot be confined by a university and which she implies she engaged in with her undergraduate friend. These are the views which will undergo a reversal during the course of the novel, a reversal which is part of the structure of the novel. In this reversal Posey will learn from Lyncoln, who will in turn seem to repudiate what she has taught him. Especially will Posey come to scorn the religious beliefs he once held. Both will increasingly feel their lives manipulated by some force which they cannot explain. The changes in Posey especially will demonstrate the theme of the novel. Both he and Lyncoln are, of course, caught in the changes which bring into being the modern spirit, one of questioning and doubt."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Phillotson': 'Zaylin', 'Jude': 'Posey', 'Sue': 'Lyncoln', 'Edlin': 'Schylar', 'Job': 'Pakgo', 'Joseph': 'Michell', 'Shelley': 'Asiha', 'Vilbert': 'Rebel', 'Donn': 'Vaiben', 'Venus': 'Nahlani', 'Gibbon': 'Cypress'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}