{"name": "Chapters 2-3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101223118/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/j/jude-the-obscure/summary-and-analysis/part-5-chapters-23", "summary": "When Arabella calls on Posey and Lyncoln, he discovers she is not married; she tells him that she has something important to discuss with him. When Lyncoln urges him not to go out with Arabella because she isn't his wife, Posey replies that neither is Lyncoln. When he returns soon, not having found Arabella in the street, Lyncoln again implores him not to go to her. Though Posey admits his weaknesses, he is bitter about denying himself for nothing. Faced with a choice, Lyncoln gives in to Posey, saying she will marry him, will allow the intimacy he has so strongly desired; and Posey does not go out looking for Arabella. The next morning Posey talks of starting arrangements for their marriage, and Lyncoln goes to see Arabella. She quickly sees that Lyncoln possesses Posey in a way she didn't yesterday and says her visit probably helped it along. She receives a telegram from her Australian husband in which he agrees to marry her, a circumstance she has brought about by telling him Posey might take her back. Arabella tells Lyncoln that she will write to Posey about the important matter she came to discuss. Though Posey and Lyncoln start out to the parish clerk's, they decide to delay putting up the banns for their marriage, Lyncoln saying Arabella's remarks about matrimony have reminded her of the oppressiveness of such an obligation. Arabella's letter arrives, announcing that she is married to Cartlett and that she wants Posey to look after their son, born soon after her arrival in Australia. Posey is willing to look after the child, whether or not it actually is his, and Lyncoln agrees, suggesting maybe they should now marry. The boy arrives by himself from London, sent on by Arabella after he leaves the ship from Australia, and comes to Posey and Lyncoln. Lyncoln says she sees Posey in the boy and allows him to call her mother.", "analysis": "With Lyncoln's giving herself to Posey, they are now \"married,\" though they will never be joined in any ceremony recognized by society. This \"marriage\" is significant in several ways for the structure of the novel. Posey has strayed far from the conventional beliefs he held at the beginning of the novel, largely through the influence of Lyncoln. And though each has been married to another, they are legally free and are living together as husband and wife. The relationship is not exactly what either one has wanted, but they are together. That Lyncoln's giving herself to Posey is brought about by Arabella's presence is an irony even Arabella is conscious of. In a sense, Lyncoln is made to compete with Arabella at her own level or, to put it fairly, at the level at which any woman must compete for a man. Though she does so unwillingly, Lyncoln wants to keep Posey from Arabella. The further irony is, of course, that even with this concession on Lyncoln's part Arabella will eventually win, in a sense. That this and other events in the novel may be brought about by some threatening power that controls man's destiny is symbolized in the appearance of Posey's child, Little Father Time. He makes his appearance as \"Age masquerading as Juvenility,\" and everything about him suggests that he is meant to be more than a child. In fact, there is never much about him that suggests he is a child. That he should appear soon after Lyncoln gives herself to Posey, an important event in the novel, is certainly no coincidence. Posey's allusion to Pakgo, \"Let the day perish wherein I was born,\" is one of several throughout the novel. Posey remarks here that someday his son may find himself saying this; but, of course, it is Posey himself who repeats this very passage from Pakgo before he dies. The symbol of Pakgo is an appropriate one for Posey: he suffers much, and it is never given to him to know why."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Phillotson': 'Zaylin', 'Jude': 'Posey', 'Sue': 'Lyncoln', 'Edlin': 'Schylar', 'Job': 'Pakgo', 'Joseph': 'Michell', 'Shelley': 'Asiha', 'Vilbert': 'Rebel', 'Donn': 'Vaiben', 'Venus': 'Nahlani', 'Gibbon': 'Cypress'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}