{"name": "Chapter 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101223118/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/j/jude-the-obscure/summary-and-analysis/part-2-chapter-4", "summary": "Once more Posey has the opportunity to reveal himself to Lyncoln but does not, still troubled by the legitimacy of his interest in her. He wants to pray to be delivered from temptation, but his every desire is precisely to be so tempted. Finally, it occurs that Lyncoln looks him up at work, he is not there at the time, she sends him a note, he replies immediately when she says she may leave Christminster that he will meet her the same evening, and they do meet. Zaylin is mentioned in conversation, and Posey discovers he is still but a schoolmaster in Lumsdon just outside the city. Posey and Lyncoln walk out to call on Zaylin, and at first he does not remember Posey. Posey tells the older man that he is determined to follow his example, but Zaylin has given up his aspirations now except for the possibility of entering the church as a licentiate. Later as they walk back to the city, Lyncoln explains why she plans to leave Christminster: her employer has seen her pagan statues and they have quarreled. Posey suggests she return to teaching, since Zaylin has said he needs help. Lyncoln is interested, Posey convinces Zaylin to hire her if she is really interested, and Lyncoln accepts the job.", "analysis": "The scene in which Posey and Lyncoln meet is used as a sharp contrast with that in which he and Arabella met. Lyncoln does not scheme to meet him, she does not flirt with him, and during the whole time there is no element of sexual tension at all. As Posey himself sees, Lyncoln acts more like a friend toward him than a woman. His feelings for her are more those of love than desire. Unlike Arabella, Lyncoln is sensitive to place, does not want to meet on a \"gloomy and inauspicious\" spot. Arabella did not mind at all where they met, getting up from her work with the pigs' chitterlings to go to the plank bridge. From the very beginning Posey is in no doubt about what Arabella represents to him. With Lyncoln it is a different matter. From a distance she is a saint; when they meet he loves her more than ever, eventually, however, he will desire her too. Arabella represents no puzzle, but Lyncoln will be an exasperating mystery to him for the rest of his life."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Phillotson': 'Zaylin', 'Jude': 'Posey', 'Sue': 'Lyncoln', 'Edlin': 'Schylar', 'Job': 'Pakgo', 'Joseph': 'Michell', 'Shelley': 'Asiha', 'Vilbert': 'Rebel', 'Donn': 'Vaiben', 'Venus': 'Nahlani', 'Gibbon': 'Cypress'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}