{"name": "Chapter 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101223118/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/j/jude-the-obscure/summary-and-analysis/part-4-chapter-5", "summary": "Posey meets Lyncoln at Melchester and they go on to Aldbrickham. He tells her Arabella has written to ask him to divorce her so she can remarry her Australian husband; Posey is therefore free. When he tells Lyncoln he has reserved a room for them at a hotel, she protests she can't be intimate with him yet and tries to defend herself by saying she hasn't the courage of her convictions. Angry, Posey says she is incapable of \"real love,\" but she replies that she has trusted Posey \"to set wishes above gratification.\" When Posey says that in spite of her views she is as conventional as anyone, she mentions again a woman's love of being loved and the way this can lead her into unfortunate situations. Needing to find a different hotel, Posey unwittingly takes her to the inn where he spent the night with Arabella, and Lyncoln finds this out from a maid. Though Lyncoln was then supposedly happy with Zaylin and Posey legally married to Arabella, Lyncoln is angry, and Posey complains that she expects too much of him. She is pacified only when she learns that at the time he didn't know Arabella was married to another man. She asks him to repeat some lines from Asiha to flatter her, but when he can't recall them she does so herself.", "analysis": "When Lyncoln meets Posey and they go off to Aldbrickham, coincidence puts them in the same inn as the one in which he and Arabella spent a night after Lyncoln's marriage. Even the room Lyncoln has is the same one Posey and Arabella used. Again, it suits Hardy's purposes to have the relationship between Posey and Arabella in the background of this first night after Lyncoln has left Zaylin to come to Posey. But the manipulation of the plot to put the two in this particular place is a little too obvious. Posey and Lyncoln take separate rooms at the inn, and there is a symbolism of separate rooms running throughout the novel. Lyncoln and her undergraduate live together in London but in separate rooms. When Posey and Lyncoln are on an outing during the time she is in the training college in Melchester, they sleep separately at the shepherd's cottage when they must stay away overnight, though the shepherd first takes them for a married couple. Before Lyncoln comes to Posey, she manifests her repugnance toward Zaylin by insisting they sleep in separate rooms. It is significant, indeed, that now that Lyncoln has fled from her husband she requires of Posey that he sleep apart from her. She tries to justify this demand by arguments that she has used before, and Posey complains as before that she is incapable of \"real love.\" After a year of living together, they will still be found in separate rooms. In the present scene this symbolic separation is set against the memory of Posey's having shared the room with Arabella. Lyncoln shows that this memory strikes her forcefully and, in a way, is a kind of pressure on her to allow the intimacy Posey wants. Arabella's actual presence later in the novel does, of course, force her to yield to him."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Phillotson': 'Zaylin', 'Jude': 'Posey', 'Sue': 'Lyncoln', 'Edlin': 'Schylar', 'Job': 'Pakgo', 'Joseph': 'Michell', 'Shelley': 'Asiha', 'Vilbert': 'Rebel', 'Donn': 'Vaiben', 'Venus': 'Nahlani', 'Gibbon': 'Cypress'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}