{"name": "Chapters 3-4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101223118/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/j/jude-the-obscure/summary-and-analysis/part-6-chapters-34", "summary": "During her convalescence Lyncoln says she is beaten and must conform, and Posey asserts he belongs to \"that vast band of men shunned by the virtuous-the men called seducers.\" She still feels she belongs to Zaylin. Posey is aware of the fact that he and Lyncoln are going in opposite directions: she is returning to the conventional ideas she taught Posey to abandon. She insists that now she must practice \"self-renunciation,\" but Posey argues that she has only acted out of natural instincts. She has been attending church frequently, Posey finds out, and does not want to be criticized for doing so. She doesn't want to go through the marriage ceremony with him because she feels she is still married to Zaylin. When Arabella calls, having come to Christminster to look at her son's grave, Lyncoln insists that she is not Posey's wife. After Lyncoln mysteriously leaves, Arabella says she is living at Alfredson with her father, now back from Australia. Posey looks for Lyncoln, finally discovering her in church. She tells him that Arabella's child killing hers is a judgment on her. They disagree over whether she is his wife, Posey arguing that their marriage was made by nature, Lyncoln that it was not made in heaven as hers to Zaylin was. Posey cannot understand how Lyncoln can have changed so, but she is convinced she has seen the light at last. She doesn't want him to return to their lodgings, but he does anyway. A conversation ensues in which each tries to take the blame for the relationship between them: Posey says he shouldn't have forced her into intimacy, though he still complains she hasn't felt for him what he feels for her; she admits she tried to attract him and through envy of Arabella gave herself to him in order to hold him. She insists they part, though Posey tries to convince her that he needs her as a defense against his weaknesses. She tells him that they must separate not because she dislikes him but because her conscience says it's right, and she suggests they can still be friends as they used to be. After seeing Posey and Lyncoln in Christminster on Remembrance Day, Zaylin reads of the death of the children in a newspaper while in Alfredston. Encountering Arabella there, he learns from her that Posey and Lyncoln aren't living together, that they have never married, that Lyncoln considers herself Zaylin's wife, and that Little Father Time was really Arabella's child. He decides to ask Lyncoln to return to him, realizing what positive effects it might have on other aspects of his life, and writes her a letter. In Christminster Lyncoln calls on Posey to tell him she has decided to return to Zaylin, to remarry him, and she suggests Posey go back to Arabella. Posey cannot understand this extreme penance on Lyncoln's part. She purposely walks with him to the cemetery so they can say goodbye over the graves of the children.", "analysis": "Posey and Lyncoln are shown in the scenes here to have reached the point at which their beliefs have reversed. The structure of the novel is such that the next step is for them to dissolve their relationship, with Lyncoln the instigator. Lyncoln now talks about the necessity of \"self-renunciation\" and the feeling that she still belongs to Zaylin. Posey argues that she was simply following her natural instincts in coming to him and that theirs is \"Nature's own marriage.\" But Lyncoln answers that it was not made in heaven, as was hers with Zaylin. The change in Lyncoln is shown further in her attending church almost daily and in her conviction that Arabella's child killing hers was a judgment on her. It is not surprising, then, that she accepts Zaylin's offer to return to him and remarry. It will be the right thing to do and will serve as a penance for her sins. She even suggests that Posey make things right by returning to Arabella."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Phillotson': 'Zaylin', 'Jude': 'Posey', 'Sue': 'Lyncoln', 'Edlin': 'Schylar', 'Job': 'Pakgo', 'Joseph': 'Michell', 'Shelley': 'Asiha', 'Vilbert': 'Rebel', 'Donn': 'Vaiben', 'Venus': 'Nahlani', 'Gibbon': 'Cypress'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}