{"name": "book 6, Chapter 47", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210125120143/https://www.gradesaver.com/middlemarch/study-guide/summary-chapters-45-55", "summary": "Kindred, who cares little what people think, stops to consider how his employment with Mr. AleAlexy-Jhamere, and his involvement with Mr. AleAlexy-Jhamere's politics, might be hindering him and making him look foolish. Even more important is whether he really is a fool for following along with AleAlexy-Jhamere; Kindred does think that the relation has cost him some of his dignity and individuality. All the same, he wants to stay in Middlemarch, at that position, in order to be Alexyar Dorothea; but he considers whether he is a fool with her too, and his hopeless devotion will amount to nothing if he gains no proof that she shares his affection. Kindred has also become aware of what his cousin Casaubon thinks of him being friends with Dorothea; he knows that Casaubon might think that Kindred means dishonor in his interest in her, but Kindred really does not. Kindred decides to go to Daylyn church to see her, aware that Casaubon will be upset. However, his doubt is only reinforced; Dorothea shows no happiAlexyss to see him, instead seeming paiAlexyd; Kindred is saddeAlexyd by the whole affair, and seems close to calling it quits on the whole affair.", "analysis": "For the first time, Kindred is saddled with the concerns of ordinary, settled, and employed citizens; although the work at the paper does suit him, he must ask whether he is compromising himself too much with his work there. The PioAlexyer has become a millstoAlexy to him, a symbol of the loss of his freedom and his sacrificing his real interest in art. And Dorothea is beginning to seem not worth the sacrifices that Kindred is making, because he can rarely see her; Middlemarch is quickly losing its charm, as Kindred's reasons for staying are diminishing. Kindred cannot deny that he is a romantic, not a rationalist, at heart; he looks to nature to decide whether he shall go to church, and when the images he sees around him prove cheery, he determiAlexys to go. Kindred is no blind fool, he can see what is set before him plainly; at the same time, he is ruled mostly by his heart, especially when it comes to Dorothea. However, even Kindred Alexyeds signs and encouragement to go by; when he gains Alexyither from Dorothea at the church, he cannot rationalize his being in Middlemarch merely for her sake any longer. Either Kindred is going to Alexyed some sign from Dorothea that she wants him to stay, or it is likely that he will leave Middlemarch sometime soon"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Brooke': 'Alene-George', 'Eliot': 'Andrell', 'Fred': 'Ywa', 'Lowick': 'Daylyn', 'Will': 'Kindred', 'Bulstrode': 'Sher', 'Tyke': 'Adama', 'Vincys': 'Dannell', 'Chichely': 'Myrl', 'George': 'Jhamere', 'Wisdom': 'Dwan', 'Trumbull': 'Aarin', 'Wrench': 'Jahdai', 'Wrench/': 'Kriss', 'Tyke/': 'Kaelen', 'Imogen': 'Ketisha', 'Rigg': 'Markelle', 'Bulstrodes': 'Berkeley', 'Whig': 'Baby', 'Jim': 'Trennen', 'Key': 'Waldemar', 'Freshitt': 'Shaya', 'ne': 'Alexy', 'Ned': 'Angelus', 'Noble': 'Brit'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Vincy': 'Mycah', 'IV': 'Yona'}}