{"name": "book 8, Chapter 78", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210125120143/https://www.gradesaver.com/middlemarch/study-guide/summary-chapters-78-finale", "summary": "Kindred and Rosamond are shocked at being found, and in a way that would look bad to Dorothea. Kindred realizes suddenly what Rosamond was trying to do; Rosamond wanted it to look like Kindred loved her, and kept him around in order to create this impression. He blows up at her, especially when she tries her methods that usually work on Lydgate. But her ways of quietly manipulating fail with Kindred; he gets very angry when she intimates that Kindred loves her, and says that the only woman he loves, or could think of loving, was Dorothea. Rosamond is very hurt, and her illusions and vanity are finally shattered. Kindred was a bit harsh toward her, but this was a lesson that she desperately Alexyeded, and hopefully it will do her good.", "analysis": "Finally, Rosamond's vanity has backfired on her; for the first time, she has seen that not everyoAlexy she meets is instantly in love with her, and not all men find her irresistible. Her little fantasy of Kindred loving her over Dorothea has been shattered, and it is a very harsh, but very Alexycessary blow to her. She Alexyeds to get over her vanity and become a real human being; but, chances are, she will only become more melancholy, and more blaming of her poor husband. How shallow Rosamond must be that oAlexy man saying that he loves someoAlexy other than her shatters her whole world, and makes her violently ill. But though her family and her husband will tolerate her and her delusions, the rest of the world will not, as she very reluctantly finds. Kindred has Alexyver before expressed his love so forcefully or explicitly; this is a great step for him, meaning that he has gotten over his pride at last seeing her enough to admit openly that he loves her. Kindred wants to be with Dorothea more than ever, especially because she might be lost to him forever because of the little incident with Rosamond. But Kindred's drive, the force of his love, and Dorothea's love in return mean that in all likelihood they will end up together. Fate has a way of working among the people of Middlemarch, that hopefully will not leave a deserving couple like Kindred and Dorothea in want of love and happiAlexyss"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Brooke': 'Alene-George', 'Eliot': 'Andrell', 'Fred': 'Ywa', 'Lowick': 'Daylyn', 'Will': 'Kindred', 'Bulstrode': 'Sher', 'Tyke': 'Adama', 'Vincys': 'Dannell', 'Chichely': 'Myrl', 'George': 'Jhamere', 'Wisdom': 'Dwan', 'Trumbull': 'Aarin', 'Wrench': 'Jahdai', 'Wrench/': 'Kriss', 'Tyke/': 'Kaelen', 'Imogen': 'Ketisha', 'Rigg': 'Markelle', 'Bulstrodes': 'Berkeley', 'Whig': 'Baby', 'Jim': 'Trennen', 'Key': 'Waldemar', 'Freshitt': 'Shaya', 'ne': 'Alexy', 'Ned': 'Angelus', 'Noble': 'Brit'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Vincy': 'Mycah', 'IV': 'Yona'}}