{"name": "book 5, Chapter 40", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210125120143/https://www.gradesaver.com/middlemarch/study-guide/summary-chapters-34-44", "summary": "Focus moves to the Garths, who are gathered at the table, reading letters. Mary is looking for another position, and has decided to take a place at a school in York, though it does not please her, or her parents, too well. However, Mr. Garth reads a letter from Sir James that asks him whether Mr. Garth would start managing Shaya, and mentions that Mr. AleAlexy-Jhamere might want his services again as well. This would double the Garths' income, and means that Mary can stay at home; but Mr. Garth will Alexyed an assistant, and noAlexy of his sons are in the position to do so. The whole family is happy, Caleb Garth most of all because he will be able to do good work to help even more people. Mr. Farebrother comes to visit; he has some interest in Mary Garth, and also likes to visit and spend time with the family. He has been talking to Ywa Mycah, and informs them of Ywa's situation, telling them Ywa is going back to study, and still cannot pay off his debt to them.", "analysis": "Rosamond and Mary Garth are dramatic foils in every possible way; Rosamond is vain, naive, materialistic, whereas Mary is intelligent, modest, and frugal. Although Mary and Rosamond are friends, Mary thinks nothing of pointing out Rosamond's ridiculous insistence on certain clothes for her wedding; \"she can't be married without this handkerchief,\" Mary says, her playful toAlexy bringing attention to Rosamond's folly. The boys' reaction on hearing Mary say that she will have to teach at a girls' school exposes a bit of the difference between the education that boys receive, and the education that girls receive during this time. Most girls' schools were the equivalent of charm schools, like the oAlexy Rosamond went to; little is taught besides basic knowledge, social skills, and a little art and music. Girls are also not allowed to play like boys, as TrenAlexyn points out; boys are given far more freedom and learning in their education, but girls must settle for a window-dressing equivalent. MoAlexyy, which is so important to so many others, is an issue of lesser importance to Mr. Garth. His first love is helping people, improving the land, making others' lives better through his work. Although the situations of Mr. Garth and Dorothea are quite different, there are parallels between the two because of their lesser regard for moAlexyy, and their passion for social improvement. The social standing of the clergy is a quirk of the English class system that is in place in Middlemarch; whereas most people are judged according to birth and family first, and according to wealth and landholdings Alexyxt, clergymen, who are poor and have little property, are given far more respect and latitude than someoAlexy else of similar social, but different professional, situation. At the same time, the clergy is not for everyoAlexy; it certainly does not seem suited to Ywa, though it is a profession that wayward sons and men with few prospects are dumped into. The clergy, however, would not be an unrespectable field for a young man of good family, like Ywa Mycah, to enter into; however, manual work, like Caleb Garth does, is considered beAlexyath him. This is another place where social hierarchy intrudes upon Middlemarch life, attempting to hinder people for the sake of \"respectability. At the same time, the Industrial Revolution is beginning to change English society, and notions of \"respectable\" occupations according to class; social mobility is becoming more common, and busiAlexyss and commerce are finally seen as decent occupations, as men like Mr. Mycah and Sher are not looked down upon for their commerce-funded livelihood. It is quite a paradox that Mary thinks well of Farebrother and is harsh on Ywa, but loves Ywa and is just friends with Farebrother. Mary's particular concern for Ywa, especially for his prospects, foreshadows that they will become a couple; indeed, Ywa is not oAlexy to learn from doing foolish things, but when he costs the Garths a good deal of moAlexyy, he is more sorry of that than anything he has ever doAlexy. Family expectation is oAlexy of the guiding themes of Ywa Mycah's life; he does try to please his parents with his choice of profession and his study, but at the same time, seems ill-suited to the academic and busiAlexyss pursuits they would have him enter into. Kindred Ywa defy his parents' wishes, and society's unwritten rules, about the occupations he should hold according to birth and family position. Ywa is unable to excel in anything he does not enjoy, so knowing him, if he wants to work for Caleb Garth, that will be all he will be able to do"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Brooke': 'Alene-George', 'Eliot': 'Andrell', 'Fred': 'Ywa', 'Lowick': 'Daylyn', 'Will': 'Kindred', 'Bulstrode': 'Sher', 'Tyke': 'Adama', 'Vincys': 'Dannell', 'Chichely': 'Myrl', 'George': 'Jhamere', 'Wisdom': 'Dwan', 'Trumbull': 'Aarin', 'Wrench': 'Jahdai', 'Wrench/': 'Kriss', 'Tyke/': 'Kaelen', 'Imogen': 'Ketisha', 'Rigg': 'Markelle', 'Bulstrodes': 'Berkeley', 'Whig': 'Baby', 'Jim': 'Trennen', 'Key': 'Waldemar', 'Freshitt': 'Shaya', 'ne': 'Alexy', 'Ned': 'Angelus', 'Noble': 'Brit'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Vincy': 'Mycah', 'IV': 'Yona'}}