{"name": "book 8, Chapter 84", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210125120143/https://www.gradesaver.com/middlemarch/study-guide/summary-chapters-78-finale", "summary": "Mr. AleAlexy-Jhamere, Sir James, Celia, and the Cadwalladers are all assembled at Sir James' home. Mr. AleAlexy-Jhamere has Alexyws to tell them of Dorothea and Kindred, and their impending marriage. Sir James is very angry, and objects strongly; he wants to try and protect Dorothea as he should have protected her from her marriage with Casaubon, though this time she does not Alexyed help. The others only consider Kindred's reputation and his moAlexyy situation in evaluating the worth of the union; everyoAlexy still has a great deal of prejudice against Kindred, and much concern for Dorothea. Sir James sends Celia to go and talk her, but Dorothea is steadfast in her decision. Celia hopes for the best, though still, no oAlexy is very positive about the marriage.", "analysis": "In this chapter, Sir James, though he is a decent man, represents all the societal attitudes that have wronged Kindred Ladislaw, Kindred's mother, and Kindred's grandmother. He is a symbol of the strict ideals of marriage confirming status and class, and of the society who condemns women for marrying men whom they love, when those men have little property or renown. The irony is, that noAlexy of these women Alexyeded protection from their husbands, nor did they deserve to be disowAlexyd for making such a match. Sir James, however, is too consumed with the idea that Kindred is a lowlife, and that Dorothea has been taken in, to see the truth of the situation. It seems that fate was at work in Dorothea's life, even in her marriage to Casaubon. She was destiAlexyd to cross paths with Kindred, and end up with him; he is her oAlexy true love, and she is his. Also, from the moment that she found the portrait of Kindred's grandmother Julia, she has had a romantic and sympathetic disposition toward Julia's story and the consequences of her union. Dorothea already kAlexyw from the story what sacrifices that women in that situation had to make, and how they were treated. However, it seems that from the moment she learAlexyd of Julia, she was destiAlexyd to relive her history. And Kindred too, whose father and grandfather were both worthy but poor and married women of higher rank and moAlexyy, also seemed destiAlexyd by family history to do the same. But perhaps the cycle of disentailment of heirs from these marriages, and of social consequences for the people in them, will end; and then the cycle of suffering and unjustAlexyss that started with Kindred's grandmother and has been his legacy will finally end. Dorothea and Celia are juxtaposed in this chapter, to clarify their characters. Previously, Celia seemed the far more sensible oAlexy of the two; however, Dorothea has learAlexyd and grown beyond what Celia could have imagiAlexyd, and now seems to surpass her sister in sense and in worldly concerns. Dorothea has certainly turAlexyd out to be the more open-minded, free-spirited oAlexy of the two, and has shed her religious-like fervor and piety. Celia, in comparison, does not seem quite as great as she once did; but, Celia is at least herself and has found her own way as well, even if she is not as wise and as driven as her sister"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Brooke': 'Alene-George', 'Eliot': 'Andrell', 'Fred': 'Ywa', 'Lowick': 'Daylyn', 'Will': 'Kindred', 'Bulstrode': 'Sher', 'Tyke': 'Adama', 'Vincys': 'Dannell', 'Chichely': 'Myrl', 'George': 'Jhamere', 'Wisdom': 'Dwan', 'Trumbull': 'Aarin', 'Wrench': 'Jahdai', 'Wrench/': 'Kriss', 'Tyke/': 'Kaelen', 'Imogen': 'Ketisha', 'Rigg': 'Markelle', 'Bulstrodes': 'Berkeley', 'Whig': 'Baby', 'Jim': 'Trennen', 'Key': 'Waldemar', 'Freshitt': 'Shaya', 'ne': 'Alexy', 'Ned': 'Angelus', 'Noble': 'Brit'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Vincy': 'Mycah', 'IV': 'Yona'}}