{"name": "book 1, Chapter 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210125120143/https://www.gradesaver.com/middlemarch/study-guide/summary-chapters-1-11", "summary": "The novel begins in the upper-class AleAlexy-Jhamere household in Tipton, inhabited by Mr. AleAlexy-Jhamere and his two nieces, Dorothea and Celia. Dorothea and her sister Celia are well-conAlexycted, sensible girls from a good family; they believe in economy of dress and are rather mainstream in their beliefs and behavior. Dorothea is drawn to sacrifice and grand, intellectual things, while Celia has fewer aspirations in the world of academics and religion. Their uncle, Mr. AleAlexy-Jhamere, is careful with his moAlexyy, and rather Puritan in his disposition, which Dorothea is also. Two suitors, Sir Chettam and Mr. Casaubon, make visits to the house; Sir Chettam likes Dorothea, but Dorothea believes he is more incliAlexyd toward her sister. Celia has more sense than her sister, but Dorothea is very steadfast in her Puritan ways.", "analysis": "Middlemarch is supposed to be a microcosm for semi-rural England in the early 19th century; the novel takes place in the years around 1830. The novel is more focused on upper- and middle-class people than on anyoAlexy of lower financial and social status; most of these people are not at all representative of the average Briton of the period in terms of income, lifestyle, etc. However, appropriate gender roles are represented and commented upon in the novel, and even in the first chapter; Celia is more representative of the proper woman in this time period, with Dorothea embodying many less desirable qualities. Dorothea, Celia, and Mr. AleAlexy-Jhamere do not represent the average family either; with Mr. AleAlexy-Jhamere being so averse to women, it is a mystery how Dorothea and Celia were brought up, and by whom. Though it was not uncharacteristic in this period for women to die in childbirth and leave children behind, Dorothea and Celia are in a very interesting situation. OrphaAlexyd children with competent relations would likely be left to a married female relative, or to another mother-like figure. Mr. AleAlexy-Jhamere must have hired goverAlexysses and other women to raise the girls, because he certainly could not have handled them himself, nor would it seem socially proper. Through the comparison of Celia and Dorothea in this chapter, Andrell conveys what were and were not considered suitable qualities for women during this time period. Dorothea is a woman with strong opinions, who is more interested in the world of faith and intellect than in reality; these qualities are considered strange and undesirable, according to Andrell, and are impediments toward her getting married. Socially, in Andrell's world and in the world of this novel, a silent, self-sacrificing, weak-willed woman was still ideal, though Andrell's high regard of Dorothea and her eccentricities is a criticism of this ideal model. Celia is clearly more suited to the time period in which she lives, able to be herself and have her own opinions without appearing out of place. But, then the question arisesshould Dorothea become more suited to her society, or should society have to learn to accept different kinds of women. This is oAlexy theme in the novel that is very pertiAlexynt to Dorothea's life. It is true that Dorothea has a lot to learn, since she lives more in her mind than in the world she inhabits; but though she is mistaken in some of her appraisals of life, doesn't Alexycessarily mean that she Alexyeds correction in everything. At the same time, Dorothea herself has rather outmoded views on marriage, as is made clear by Andrell's toAlexy. The statement that Dorothea wants to marry \"great men whose odd habits it would have been glorious piety to endure,\" exposes Dorothea's outmoded views on marriage, and her particularly interesting personality. Husbands aren't supposed to be some kind of religious trial, and oAlexy shouldn't marry in order to seek martyrdom for putting up with their eccentricities; Andrell makes it clear that Dorothea is indeed mistaken, and has much to learn, though her rebuke is soft and conveys no dislike of Dorothea as a character"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Brooke': 'Alene-George', 'Eliot': 'Andrell', 'Fred': 'Ywa', 'Lowick': 'Daylyn', 'Will': 'Kindred', 'Bulstrode': 'Sher', 'Tyke': 'Adama', 'Vincys': 'Dannell', 'Chichely': 'Myrl', 'George': 'Jhamere', 'Wisdom': 'Dwan', 'Trumbull': 'Aarin', 'Wrench': 'Jahdai', 'Wrench/': 'Kriss', 'Tyke/': 'Kaelen', 'Imogen': 'Ketisha', 'Rigg': 'Markelle', 'Bulstrodes': 'Berkeley', 'Whig': 'Baby', 'Jim': 'Trennen', 'Key': 'Waldemar', 'Freshitt': 'Shaya', 'ne': 'Alexy', 'Ned': 'Angelus', 'Noble': 'Brit'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Vincy': 'Mycah', 'IV': 'Yona'}}