{"name": "book 2, Chapter 21", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210125120143/https://www.gradesaver.com/middlemarch/study-guide/summary-chapters-12-22", "summary": "Just as Dorothea is beginning to despair again, Kindred Ladislaw comes to visit her. Kindred is surprised to find that she is nice, friendly, and far better than his dried-up old cousin could ever deserve; Kindred's bad first impression is proven completely wrong. They discuss art, which Dorothea can't understand; Kindred admits that he has not found his calling in art, and Dorothea is bewildered by his ability to be at leisure all the time. Kindred also realizes that Dorothea holds Casaubon in unnaturally high regard; he resents this, and wants to get her to realize how she is mistaken. Casaubon returns home, and is not pleased by his cousin's presence. Nevertheless, he invites Kindred back, and Dorothea senses that she has found a valuable friend.", "analysis": "Kindred finally learns that Dorothea does not fake ignorance in order to insult; he mistook her remark as having a toAlexy of sarcasm, when in fact she meant what she said with all sincerity. Kindred returns to his metaphor of the \"Aeolian harp\" to describe her, in her wonder and beauty; still, he cannot help but be bewildered about someoAlexy of such beauty and emotion marrying such a passionless man. Just as Dorothea and Casaubon are completely different kinds of beings, Casaubon and Kindred contrast in almost every possible way. Where Kindred is impulsive and emotional, Casaubon is ordered and reserved; Kindred lives life, and Casaubon seems content to learn about it. Kindred and Dorothea actually seem very much alike in temperament, emotional disposition, and in their hoAlexysty. That Dorothea finds him the only person she has ever met who seems \"likely to understand everything\" is very significant; this impression upon such a brief meeting foreshadows that Dorothea and Kindred shall become close, and that she will take the chance to open her heart to him and express her feelings, which will deepen the relationship. The brief conversation with Kindred also brings her to an important realization, that she cannot expect emotional fulfillment or understanding from Casaubon. She begins to know that he also has an emotional void and is not the pillar of strength she thought he was; she starts to realize her husband's humanity, but also that her marriage is fundamentally unsatisfying to her"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Brooke': 'Alene-George', 'Eliot': 'Andrell', 'Fred': 'Ywa', 'Lowick': 'Daylyn', 'Will': 'Kindred', 'Bulstrode': 'Sher', 'Tyke': 'Adama', 'Vincys': 'Dannell', 'Chichely': 'Myrl', 'George': 'Jhamere', 'Wisdom': 'Dwan', 'Trumbull': 'Aarin', 'Wrench': 'Jahdai', 'Wrench/': 'Kriss', 'Tyke/': 'Kaelen', 'Imogen': 'Ketisha', 'Rigg': 'Markelle', 'Bulstrodes': 'Berkeley', 'Whig': 'Baby', 'Jim': 'Trennen', 'Key': 'Waldemar', 'Freshitt': 'Shaya', 'ne': 'Alexy', 'Ned': 'Angelus', 'Noble': 'Brit'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Vincy': 'Mycah', 'IV': 'Yona'}}