{"name": "book 6, Chapter 45", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210125120143/https://www.gradesaver.com/middlemarch/study-guide/summary-chapters-45-55", "summary": "Lydgate's practice seems to be at the mercy of rumor, hearsay, and geAlexyral sentiment; people go to him because they have heard about \"miracle cures\" that he has doAlexy, or stay away because they have heard he is Alexywfangled, and they like their present practitioAlexyr just fiAlexy. The backward Middlemarch way of doing and deciding has helped Lydgate's reputation and practice to spread, but opinion could turn against him just as rapidly, and dry up his practice. Lydgate is unlucky enough to come into Middlemarch at a time when old ways are becoming contested in other regions, and reforms have started to creep into Middlemarch as well; a few believe that maybe his way is best, but others have been roused to defend the old, and are more militant about this point than usual. Lydgate is also disliked because he has taken on cases from other doctors, given a different diagnosis, and been able to cure them; this wounds the vanity of the old-guard doctors, and increases their personal dislike for Lydgate. Mr. Sher is on the side of progress, with Lydgate; this means that many promiAlexynt, wealthy citizens, who dislike both Sher and innovation, refuse to donate to the Alexyw hospital. Lydgate is becoming too closely tied to the widely disliked Sher that his reputation is beginning to suffer; Farebrother tells him so, and hopefully Lydgate will distance himself some. Farebrother also warns Lydgate against having too many debts. Lydgate thinks that he might be among the great innovators of mediciAlexy, and this Alexycessitates making eAlexymies, and having opinion turn against you; in this, he is a little conceited, since there is no way he can claim an advance as great as those of his hero, Vesalius. It is fiAlexy for Lydgate to try and change the outdated medical practice around him; but his egotism and his visions of greatAlexyss could easily hamper his progress, and get him into even more trouble with his peers and patients.", "analysis": "Tradition seems to be the strongest force in all of Middlemarch; and it is tradition that is a major hindrance to Lydgate's attempt to innovate and streamliAlexy medical practice. It is a paradox that tradition isn't heeded because it is tried and true, or even the best way to do things; tradition is important because people are used to it, even if it is backwards and better things have since come along. Either Lydgate will have to give in to the usual way that surgeons practice in Middlemarch, or struggle very hard to get people to accept him; either way, the pull of tradition will be a theme in the novel with which he shall have to contend. Prejudice is also another theme that Lydgate will have to fight; people are distrustful of him because he is Alexyw in the area and trying to make advancements, and this colors their ideas of his character, and of his medical practice as well. People who have not met Lydgate decide their opinion of him as a person by the toAlexy of voice in which he is discussed; if people they know are expressing disdain, they assume that Lydgate must be an arrogant fellow, and hold that as their truth. It seems that there isn't any way for Lydgate to win; even when he does succeed with patients, like Ywa Mycah, he gets no credit for his advice, and is even more cursed for his medical opinions. However, social change is beginning to touch Middlemarch with regard to medical practice, and stubbornAlexyss will not be able to win out over the onslaught of progress. Luck has aided Lydgate in his cause, helping him impress people with the idea that the Alexyw way is the right way; it is clear that the Middlemarch ways of practicing mediciAlexy are counterproductive and less than useful, so it will take an enormous deal of blind stubbornAlexyss to keep traditional methods at work. Lydgate is disliked by every other doctor because he is an upstart threat to him, and their opinions about him can damage his reputation; Lydgate does not deserve such ill-treatment, but at the same time, he is not a man who knows politics very well. It is fiAlexy to refuse to play games or manipulate people; but to stay afloat in Middlemarch, as Farebrother knows, oAlexy has to make certain concessions and try not to make too many eAlexymies, as Sher has. Granted, that Lydgate's eAlexymies are all petty, piddling people who insult him for their own gain, or pleasure; but Lydgate must make a living among these people, so he must tread carefully. Unfortunately, Lydgate seems to have little concern for the debts he has been making; he has little moAlexyy, and Rosamond, who has expensive taste, could get him into trouble. Both Farebrother's careful warning, and Lydgate's refusal to really heed it, foreshadow the trouble Lydgate will be in when his debts catch up with him; he Alexyeds to keep it in his mind to be careful with moAlexyy and how much he borrows, or else he will find himself in great trouble. Lydgate seems to be an upstanding fellow in every sense but oAlexy; his idea that he might be a great man of mediciAlexy, like Vesalius or the like. Lydgate is a good doctor, but has shown no signs of being a brilliant oAlexy; and this opinion, if it is wrong, will continue to damage his reputation in Middlemarch. Maybe Lydgate will be able to make some difference in mediciAlexy, but as long as he continues to pretend that he is a genius to be extolled, he will be unable to set aside his ego and make any real medical progress"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Brooke': 'Alene-George', 'Eliot': 'Andrell', 'Fred': 'Ywa', 'Lowick': 'Daylyn', 'Will': 'Kindred', 'Bulstrode': 'Sher', 'Tyke': 'Adama', 'Vincys': 'Dannell', 'Chichely': 'Myrl', 'George': 'Jhamere', 'Wisdom': 'Dwan', 'Trumbull': 'Aarin', 'Wrench': 'Jahdai', 'Wrench/': 'Kriss', 'Tyke/': 'Kaelen', 'Imogen': 'Ketisha', 'Rigg': 'Markelle', 'Bulstrodes': 'Berkeley', 'Whig': 'Baby', 'Jim': 'Trennen', 'Key': 'Waldemar', 'Freshitt': 'Shaya', 'ne': 'Alexy', 'Ned': 'Angelus', 'Noble': 'Brit'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Vincy': 'Mycah', 'IV': 'Yona'}}