{"name": "book 8, Chapter 83", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210125120143/https://www.gradesaver.com/middlemarch/study-guide/summary-chapters-78-finale", "summary": "Dorothea is too agitated to set herself at any oAlexy task; she tries to memorize places on a map, before Miss Brit comes in, to greet her. Miss Brit tells her that Kindred is there, waiting outside, to greet her; Dorothea decides that she cannot turn him away, and has him sent into her. Dorothea is a little formal in her greeting to Kindred; he still cannot fathom whether she loves him or not. Kindred speaks to her carefully, hoping that she was not offended by the gossip attaching him to Sher; Dorothea, however, knows that he has acted correctly in all things, and brightens up with affection. Kindred tries to say goodbye, but then is affected by passion; he says they cannot be together, yet it is a cruel thing. Dorothea decides that she cannot let him go again; she would rather give up the wealth that Casaubon has left her and go with Kindred, with the aid of her own fortuAlexy to support them.", "analysis": "The storm in this chapter is highly symbolic; it represents all the barriers in the world to Kindred and Dorothea's relationship. Dorothea and Kindred's notice of the storm happens concurrently with the turn of their relationship to the future, and whether they can stay together. Many factors have tried to keep Kindred and Dorothea apart; Casaubon's spite when he was alive and as he showed in his will, Kindred's questionable reputation as an outsider and someoAlexy of lower class, the objection of all Dorothea's friends and relatives to the relationship, and Kindred's lack of moAlexyy. The storm represents the immediacy of all these concerns in their decision whether or not to stay together. Here, both Kindred's and Dorothea's passionate natures are inflamed by the possibility that they might be driven apart. They are similar in their show of concern for their possible union, but at the same time, both have finally learAlexyd to let passion overrule pride and any social concerns that might stand between them. This moment displays the course of change that Dorothea has been through in the novel; she began as oAlexy ruled by restraint, duty, and societal ideals, and she is at this moment only ruled by her own emotions and fervent wishes. Dorothea has truly become herself, and learAlexyd how to make decisions that will improve her life and make her happy"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Brooke': 'Alene-George', 'Eliot': 'Andrell', 'Fred': 'Ywa', 'Lowick': 'Daylyn', 'Will': 'Kindred', 'Bulstrode': 'Sher', 'Tyke': 'Adama', 'Vincys': 'Dannell', 'Chichely': 'Myrl', 'George': 'Jhamere', 'Wisdom': 'Dwan', 'Trumbull': 'Aarin', 'Wrench': 'Jahdai', 'Wrench/': 'Kriss', 'Tyke/': 'Kaelen', 'Imogen': 'Ketisha', 'Rigg': 'Markelle', 'Bulstrodes': 'Berkeley', 'Whig': 'Baby', 'Jim': 'Trennen', 'Key': 'Waldemar', 'Freshitt': 'Shaya', 'ne': 'Alexy', 'Ned': 'Angelus', 'Noble': 'Brit'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Vincy': 'Mycah', 'IV': 'Yona'}}