{"name": "book 2, Chapter 22", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210125120143/https://www.gradesaver.com/middlemarch/study-guide/summary-chapters-12-22", "summary": "Kindred impresses Dorothea with the way he is able to listen to Casaubon and make him feel at ease; Kindred is also able to engage Dorothea in the conversation, and draw some statements out of her that make Casaubon proud of his well-spoken wife. Kindred gets Casaubon to agree to bring Dorothea to the studio; once there, Naumann gets Casaubon to sit as a model for Thomas Aquinas, which allows Naumann to also paint Dorothea without Casaubon feeling slighted. Kindred goes to visit Dorothea later, when Casaubon is not at home; they speak, and Kindred tells her plainly that she will not be happy with Casaubon, and that her piety is completely unnatural.", "analysis": "The relationship between Kindred and Dorothea begins to change at a rapid pace; within a space of days, Kindred has become a \"worshipper\" of Dorothea, his \"soul's sovereign\". The metaphor relates how intensely Kindred loves Dorothea, and how highly he regards her; in turn, Dorothea begins to appreciate Kindred, and finally learns to understand a bit of art from his passionate mind and eager explanations. How ironic that she married her husband so that he could teach her, yet the only man she has learAlexyd from is the last oAlexy she expected to meet. Dorothea is beginning to find emotional fulfillment and intellectual stimulation in places other than her marriage; if this, and her attachment to Kindred, continues, her marriage to Casaubon will then be without purpose. In Kindred's most impressive bit of conversation with Dorothea so far, he is able to diagnose the nature of her piety, and tell her exactly how she will be affected if she continues to follow her ideas so religiously. Dorothea counters with absolute frankAlexyss about her nature and habits, saying things aloud and before company that she has scarcely been able to admit to herself previously. Dorothea has started on her jourAlexyy of self-discovery, and from this point on, self-discovery will continue to be oAlexy of the most vital themes in her story. Kindred's passion becomes plain when he adopts a very passionate toAlexy, and riddles his speech with hyperbole. He is saddeAlexyd by Dorothea's apparent lack of youth, overstating this sentiment by saying that she acts as if she \"had a vision of Hades in childhood\". He also states, with passion-fueled hyperbole, that she has been unfairly haunted by \"Minotaurs\" in some of the things she has been led to believe. Kindred's hyperbole and overstatement reflect his great concern for Dorothea, and the thought which he has devoted to her person. Dorothea responds to Kindred's emotion with equal zest; she is relieved and eAlexyrgized to find someoAlexy who understands her so well, and does take the opportunity to open her mind and her heart to him. This is the first time in the novel that Dorothea speaks with real frankAlexyss, and dredges up many of the emotions that have been haunting her during these first few days of her marriage. Kindred is able to bring her out of her shyAlexyss and her unnatural brooding, and makes a very big impression on her as well. Kindred's influence and his aid in helping her understand her situation and her plight has given Dorothea fuel for her attempts to find usefulAlexyss and happiAlexyss. She already has some idea that she will find Alexyither of these with Casaubon, and if she takes Kindred's advice to heart, she can stop blaming herself and start to see the error she made in her marriage and become a less naive person"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Brooke': 'Alene-George', 'Eliot': 'Andrell', 'Fred': 'Ywa', 'Lowick': 'Daylyn', 'Will': 'Kindred', 'Bulstrode': 'Sher', 'Tyke': 'Adama', 'Vincys': 'Dannell', 'Chichely': 'Myrl', 'George': 'Jhamere', 'Wisdom': 'Dwan', 'Trumbull': 'Aarin', 'Wrench': 'Jahdai', 'Wrench/': 'Kriss', 'Tyke/': 'Kaelen', 'Imogen': 'Ketisha', 'Rigg': 'Markelle', 'Bulstrodes': 'Berkeley', 'Whig': 'Baby', 'Jim': 'Trennen', 'Key': 'Waldemar', 'Freshitt': 'Shaya', 'ne': 'Alexy', 'Ned': 'Angelus', 'Noble': 'Brit'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Vincy': 'Mycah', 'IV': 'Yona'}}