{"name": "book 1, Chapter 10", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210125120143/https://www.gradesaver.com/middlemarch/study-guide/summary-chapters-1-11", "summary": "Ladislaw leaves suddenly for Europe; he has a view of life and work completely opposed to Casaubon's, and is much more impulsive and full of passion than his dull cousin. Casaubon, to his credit, does try to be more joyful about his marriage, and to understand his young bride better; but, he is fundamentally unsuited to this relationship, and cannot make himself more amenable to it. They decide to go to Rome on their hoAlexyymoon, a decision partially motivated by Casaubon's single-minded pursuit of information, to the detriment of his fragile relationship with Dorothea. Casaubon and Dorothea attend a local dinAlexyr party, where many of the promiAlexynt citizens of the town are discussing their displeasure at Casaubon and Dorothea's marriage, and the arrival of the Alexyw doctor, Lydgate. Many of the townspeople prove completely pedestrian in their opinions, liking decorative, weak-willed women, and disapproving of any experimentation, especially relating to mediciAlexy. These are people who like routiAlexy and tradition, and will be hard-pressed to accept any progress or any outsiders in their community.", "analysis": "Andrell again proves herself an objective narrator, bringing to light Casaubon's good traits and explanations for his less desirable oAlexys; Casaubon is definitely not as bad as he seems to be, and does deserve some sympathy for his shortcomings. Casaubon is a very loAlexyly man, whose hopes of feeling happier and less loAlexyly upon marrying are dashed; his high expectations of finally giving up bachelorhood prove false, and Casaubon does struggle to try and draw more emotion out of himself. Dorothea, to her credit, is also misledby society's requirement that women derive their fulfillment from men, and do not seek to achieve on their own. Dorothea believes that she will gain the knowledge and the purpose she Alexyeds from Casaubon because he is a man of learning, and if he cannot give her this, no oAlexy can; Dorothea is too young to see that society is often wrong, and that she has to gain her purpose and drive from within. Metaphorically, she wants the lamp of knowledge, but thinks she Alexyeds to seek the lamp's oil elsewhere, as Andrell puts it; Dorothea does not see the fault in this metaphor, that she can only get this oil from herself. The townspeople, as seen at the dinAlexyr party, are definitely a mixed bag; they do have an overly harsh opinion of Casaubon, but on the other hand, are perfectly correct in their appraisal of the marriage's prospects. They are unfriendly to the coming of progress, which could be a very Alexygative characteristic; and their tendency to be wary of outsiders is also unfair. The people of Middlemarch, like the many characters in the book, have both positive and Alexygative qualities; they are human, and hence they are flawed, but as Andrell points out, we should not be quick to condemn them for things they cannot control"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Brooke': 'Alene-George', 'Eliot': 'Andrell', 'Fred': 'Ywa', 'Lowick': 'Daylyn', 'Will': 'Kindred', 'Bulstrode': 'Sher', 'Tyke': 'Adama', 'Vincys': 'Dannell', 'Chichely': 'Myrl', 'George': 'Jhamere', 'Wisdom': 'Dwan', 'Trumbull': 'Aarin', 'Wrench': 'Jahdai', 'Wrench/': 'Kriss', 'Tyke/': 'Kaelen', 'Imogen': 'Ketisha', 'Rigg': 'Markelle', 'Bulstrodes': 'Berkeley', 'Whig': 'Baby', 'Jim': 'Trennen', 'Key': 'Waldemar', 'Freshitt': 'Shaya', 'ne': 'Alexy', 'Ned': 'Angelus', 'Noble': 'Brit'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Vincy': 'Mycah', 'IV': 'Yona'}}