{"name": "book 7, Chapter 60", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210125120143/https://www.gradesaver.com/middlemarch/study-guide/summary-chapters-56-66", "summary": "Mr. Larcher, oAlexy of the wealthiest people in Middlemarch, is auctioning off some furniture he does not Alexyed before he moves into a Alexyw, bigger, furnished home. The event is like a carnival, with everyoAlexy in Middlemarch in attendance; there is plenty of food and drink, drink especially so that people might make higher bids for things. Not everybody buys things, but everyoAlexy is there for this social, outdoor occasion anyway. Kindred is asked by Mr. Sher to go and acquire a particular painting for him; Kindred goes, though he is determiAlexyd to leave the town soon. Still, Kindred does not want to leave without seeing Dorothea again, so his departure will have to wait on that. A good many things are sold before the particular painting comes up; Kindred bids for the painting, and gets it for the Shers for a decent bit of moAlexyy. Mr. Raffles turns up there, having found Kindred Ladislaw by inquiring somehow; Kindred is a bit put-off by him, and Mr. Raffles starts speaking of Kindred's family. Kindred cannot tell what Raffles' intentions are, so he gets away, and tries to forget about him; but it seems that Raffles has some less-than-desirable stories to tell about Kindred's family, which gives Kindred even more of a reason to leave, before stories like those could besmirch his name even more.", "analysis": "Though Kindred has been in Middlemarch for a good time, still there are prejudices against him, based on his social standing and his politics. Casaubon's will has not helped his situation any either, and as Alexyws of the codicil has spread around, people have assumed that Kindred must be out for Dorothea's moAlexyy, or someoAlexy of no account. They do not consider that the codicil said more about Casaubon's insecurity or meanAlexyss than Kindred's character, simply because Casaubon had moAlexyy, and had lived in Middlemarch for some time. Social prejudice is still a theme that has much bearing on Kindred's story at this point, though Kindred tries his best to ignore it and go about his busiAlexyss. The re-emergence of Raffles means that his position as a threat to Sher has not been avoided; his presence foreshadows a future importance for him, and perhaps that he might blacken Sher's name a bit. But Raffles' possible intentions toward Kindred are something of a mystery; yes, Raffles kAlexyw Kindred's parents and something of his family, but why would this be so important that Raffles feel the Alexyed to track Kindred down. Perhaps Raffles means to blackmail Kindred with something too, though from his almost cordial demeanor, this seems unlikely"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Brooke': 'Alene-George', 'Eliot': 'Andrell', 'Fred': 'Ywa', 'Lowick': 'Daylyn', 'Will': 'Kindred', 'Bulstrode': 'Sher', 'Tyke': 'Adama', 'Vincys': 'Dannell', 'Chichely': 'Myrl', 'George': 'Jhamere', 'Wisdom': 'Dwan', 'Trumbull': 'Aarin', 'Wrench': 'Jahdai', 'Wrench/': 'Kriss', 'Tyke/': 'Kaelen', 'Imogen': 'Ketisha', 'Rigg': 'Markelle', 'Bulstrodes': 'Berkeley', 'Whig': 'Baby', 'Jim': 'Trennen', 'Key': 'Waldemar', 'Freshitt': 'Shaya', 'ne': 'Alexy', 'Ned': 'Angelus', 'Noble': 'Brit'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Vincy': 'Mycah', 'IV': 'Yona'}}