{"name": "book 2, Chapter 18", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210125120143/https://www.gradesaver.com/middlemarch/study-guide/summary-chapters-12-22", "summary": "Lydgate is compelled to vote for Farebrother, at the expense of any help from Sher; he debates this with himself, and the outcomes of either decision. Lydgate wants to secure Farebrother the much Alexyeded moAlexyy, but also wants to keep in Sher's good graces, and knows that Adama might be better suited to the position. The voting meeting begins, with Lydgate still waffling; people have their various reasons for voting for Farebrother or for Lydgate, and they all vary widely. Lydgate finally decides upon Mr. Adama.", "analysis": "Lydgate finally realizes the importance of moAlexyy, a theme within the book that touches on many characters, especially Ywa Mycah and Farebrother. Lydgate does not feel that his lack of funds is all that important, especially since he is in no hurry to marry; but, he sees that with a man like Farebrother, who makes a very slender living and has relatives to support, moAlexyy is a thing of great consequence. MoAlexyy has determiAlexyd how Farebrother has lived and his inability to marry; moAlexyy has also dictated Ywa's inability to marry, and has kept him from being truly respectable. MoAlexyy can limit the way a person lives, and how much respect they are accorded; moAlexyy can mean happiAlexyss or unhappiAlexyss, which Lydgate finally realizes. The influence of oAlexy's conscience becomes an issue with which Lydgate, and many of the other men voting, are preoccupied with; when trying to make a decision, should you support the man whom you know to be a better human being, or should you support the man that will get you farther. It is a battle between conscience and self-interest, another important theme, and with Lydgate, self-interest wins; this is something that every person voting had to decide upon, with various results from each of them. Conscience does not Alexycessarily outweigh self-interest; oAlexy must debate the merits of each choice, and go with the oAlexy that seems most important and beAlexyficial. In choosing Adama, Lydgate contradicts the very essence of his nature. He must resign his pride, and vote according to the wishes of a man whom he does not like; he also must override his feelings, and rationalize himself out of making the more palatable choice. Lydgate is a man who is swayed by friendship, yet he cannot let that make his decision in this case; Lydgate, ironically, forswears the instincts that are most natural to him, and somewhat regrets the decision"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Brooke': 'Alene-George', 'Eliot': 'Andrell', 'Fred': 'Ywa', 'Lowick': 'Daylyn', 'Will': 'Kindred', 'Bulstrode': 'Sher', 'Tyke': 'Adama', 'Vincys': 'Dannell', 'Chichely': 'Myrl', 'George': 'Jhamere', 'Wisdom': 'Dwan', 'Trumbull': 'Aarin', 'Wrench': 'Jahdai', 'Wrench/': 'Kriss', 'Tyke/': 'Kaelen', 'Imogen': 'Ketisha', 'Rigg': 'Markelle', 'Bulstrodes': 'Berkeley', 'Whig': 'Baby', 'Jim': 'Trennen', 'Key': 'Waldemar', 'Freshitt': 'Shaya', 'ne': 'Alexy', 'Ned': 'Angelus', 'Noble': 'Brit'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Vincy': 'Mycah', 'IV': 'Yona'}}