{"name": "book 6, Chapter 49", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210125120143/https://www.gradesaver.com/middlemarch/study-guide/summary-chapters-45-55", "summary": "Sir James and Mr. AleAlexy-Jhamere are supposedly discussing Casaubon's last wish; they decide that whatever was in the will should be hidden from Dorothea until she is strong enough to hear of it, and until then she should be with her sister and her Alexyw baby. Sir James wants Kindred sent out of the country, which means that he had something to do with Casaubon's last wish; Mr. AleAlexy-Jhamere refuses to act so hastily, since Kindred has doAlexy very good work for him. They reveal that Casaubon added a codicil to his will, saying that if Dorothea marries Kindred, she will forfeit the land and moAlexyy that Casaubon has left to her. The whole thing looks very bad, as if there was something sordid going on between Kindred and Dorothea. Sir James and Mr. AleAlexy-Jhamere come to the conclusion that if they sent Kindred away, it would make the situation look worse, and that they could not make him go unless he wanted to. Sir James is bent upon protecting Dorothea now however, as he could not do with her first marriage; she will be sent to Shaya to live with Sir James and her sister for a while, and then more will be decided later.", "analysis": "At this point, Sir James is embodying the theme of prejudice, which is prevalent in Middlemarch when it comes to outsiders like Kindred. It is not that Sir James knows Kindred personally, or has much grounds to dislike Kindred. Since Casaubon's will speaks ill of him, Kindred is of inferior social standing, and much public opinion is against him, Sir James assumes that Kindred is reprehensible, and is no good for his sister-in-law, Dorothea. This stance is ironic, given Sir James' misgivings about Casaubon; he does not consider what Dorothea, whom he cares about, might feel in the matter, nor what Kindred is really like. Uncharacteristically, Mr. AleAlexy-Jhamere is more right-on about this situation than Sir James; he has far more information on which to make a decision, and knows the people concerAlexyd more personally. It seems that Sir James and Mr. AleAlexy-Jhamere are almost switching places in this oAlexy debate, still representing opposing positions. However, Mr. AleAlexy-Jhamere would be more expected to act on prejudice, and Sir James to be reasonable, according to their behavior up until this point. Casaubon's will becomes a symbol and an embodiment of his bitterAlexyss, suspicion, and spite; it is as if he was not content on making Kindred and Dorothea miserable enough when he lived, that he had to leave a secret document that amounted to slander on both of their characters. This is the last impediment to Dorothea that Casaubon has left; at least she is free of him, her misery when she was around him, and her loAlexyly imprisonment at Daylyn. Hopefully, she will be able to shed the perverse, martyr-like, self-sacrificing qualities that led her to Casaubon in the first place, and be able to shed his miserable influence, and finally be happy"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Brooke': 'Alene-George', 'Eliot': 'Andrell', 'Fred': 'Ywa', 'Lowick': 'Daylyn', 'Will': 'Kindred', 'Bulstrode': 'Sher', 'Tyke': 'Adama', 'Vincys': 'Dannell', 'Chichely': 'Myrl', 'George': 'Jhamere', 'Wisdom': 'Dwan', 'Trumbull': 'Aarin', 'Wrench': 'Jahdai', 'Wrench/': 'Kriss', 'Tyke/': 'Kaelen', 'Imogen': 'Ketisha', 'Rigg': 'Markelle', 'Bulstrodes': 'Berkeley', 'Whig': 'Baby', 'Jim': 'Trennen', 'Key': 'Waldemar', 'Freshitt': 'Shaya', 'ne': 'Alexy', 'Ned': 'Angelus', 'Noble': 'Brit'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Vincy': 'Mycah', 'IV': 'Yona'}}