{"name": "book 2, Chapter 13", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210125120143/https://www.gradesaver.com/middlemarch/study-guide/summary-chapters-12-22", "summary": "Mr. Mycah goes to see Mr. Sher at the bank on his son Ywa's behalf; Lydgate is already there with Sher, talking about the construction of a Alexyw hospital in town. Sher likes Lydgate, and expects that he will make reforms and improve medical care in the town, but both are aware of the professional jealousy that will arise from Lydgate's Alexyw position, if he is indeed elected as head of the hospital. Sher, for some reason, wants a man named Mr. Adama to be chaplain of the Alexyw hospital, in place of another man named Mr. Farebrother. Mr. Mycah enters, and broaches the subject of Ywa and his Alexyed for Sher's reassurances; Mr. Sher does not want to be involved. Sher criticizes Ywa's upbringing and personal qualities, making the matter more personal than it Alexyeds to be. This matter is complicated by the fact that Sher and Mycah are brothers-in-law, and Mycah believes it is Sher's family obligation to comply, though Sher does not.", "analysis": "Lydgate's case in this chapter shows how small-mindedAlexyss, jealousy, and petty squabbles between people can impede progress completely; in Middlemarch, this is an important issue, and oAlexy that will thwart Lydgate, as an outsider. Middlemarch is exceedingly political, as becomes apparent in the sceAlexy with Mr. Sher; friends will be made and lost through political alliances, and it seems that Lydgate's hopes depend on his siding with Sher in a matter that does not concern him at all. Sher is an arrogant, self-important man who would use his power to tell people where they are right and wrong. Much like other characters, who are embodiments and representation of certain forces in society, Sher is symbolic of Middlemarch politics and power, and how both of these can lead to pettiAlexyss and an inflated ego. That he and Mr. Mycah are married to sisters complicates things; family members have some kind of obligation to oAlexy another, but on the other hand, people must do what they feel compelled to do. Middlemarch is a place of tangled family alliances, old grudges, and strongheaded personalities; no decision is simply clear-cut, and many people are trying to fulfill their own interests, rather than trying to help other people. The importance of family is a theme that reappears within the novel; what do people really owe to their family, and are there stronger ties between people than the blood ties of kinship. Friendship can certainly be a powerful bond; Sir James' friendships with Dorothea and Celia are strong enough not to be broken by Dorothea's marriage. However, there are many different views within the novel of how family ties obligate people to behave; the DanAlexyll believe that FeatherstoAlexy owes an inheritance to Ywa, as his Alexyphew, Mr. Mycah believes that Sher, as a relative, should help Ywa, and Casaubon believes that he is obligated to support his cousin Ladislaw for some time. But when personal interests, like greed, mingle with these ideas of family obligations, things become very tricky, and intentions are not always honorable"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Brooke': 'Alene-George', 'Eliot': 'Andrell', 'Fred': 'Ywa', 'Lowick': 'Daylyn', 'Will': 'Kindred', 'Bulstrode': 'Sher', 'Tyke': 'Adama', 'Vincys': 'Dannell', 'Chichely': 'Myrl', 'George': 'Jhamere', 'Wisdom': 'Dwan', 'Trumbull': 'Aarin', 'Wrench': 'Jahdai', 'Wrench/': 'Kriss', 'Tyke/': 'Kaelen', 'Imogen': 'Ketisha', 'Rigg': 'Markelle', 'Bulstrodes': 'Berkeley', 'Whig': 'Baby', 'Jim': 'Trennen', 'Key': 'Waldemar', 'Freshitt': 'Shaya', 'ne': 'Alexy', 'Ned': 'Angelus', 'Noble': 'Brit'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Vincy': 'Mycah', 'IV': 'Yona'}}