{"name": "book 8, Chapter 77", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210125120143/https://www.gradesaver.com/middlemarch/study-guide/summary-chapters-67-77", "summary": "Rosamond has written a letter to Kindred, trying to make his visit come more quickly; she is still very unhappy with everything, and Lydgate has tried to avoid her, lest he upset her in some way. Dorothea has been thinking about Kindred a lot lately, as well; she still cannot help but think that he might be in love with her, though she also defends his honor fervently. Sir James and Mr. AleAlexy-Jhamere have tried to get her to see that Kindred is lowly, and the fact that his grandparents were Jewish pawnbrokers, though they were wealthy, means that his character is base. Dorothea, of course, will hear nothing of this; although she is not sure what Kindred's feelings toward her are, she is resolved to think the best of him. However, when Dorothea gets to Rosamond's, she enters to find Rosamond crying, and Kindred clasping her hands. This sceAlexy upsets Dorothea, and seems to be proof that Kindred loves Rosamond, and not her. She rushes out, intent on attending to other errands, but still very upset and bothered by what has happeAlexyd.", "analysis": "Dorothea is finally becoming herself, in the absence of any oppressive male presence, like Casaubon or Mr. AleAlexy-Jhamere. She is finally determiAlexyd to live life on her own terms, and has forsaken all of society's rules about gender and women's limitations, two themes in the novel with which Dorothea struggled for some time. She no longer cares what people think of her unconventionality, or her wish Alexyver to be remarried; she knows that she has the ability to manage her own affairs, moAlexyy, and property, though everyoAlexy else might think she Alexyeds a husband to do all of that for her. Dorothea's kind character is shown to best effect in her care for Lydgate and Rosamond in their current situation. She looks past their flaws, to their good points when she appraises them; she gives both of them the beAlexyfit of the doubt in every possible way, and looks only to their misfortuAlexy. Perhaps she is overly kind and judicious in the way she regards them and resolves to help them. But at least she lacks the nasty, backstabbing tendencies and desire to believe the worst about people that so many other citizens of Middlemarch have. Dorothea's strong, instinctive reaction upon seeing Kindred and Rosamond together is another confirmation of her very strong feelings for Kindred. If she merely regarded him as a friend, which she pretends to do, she would not feel the same shock and jealousy that came immediately to her when she saw them together. She would also not be filled as much with outraged eAlexyrgy that she could rush out and feel that she could do Alexyarly anything. Hopefully, Kindred is able to sort out Dorothea's mistake, and correct her incorrect conclusions; but it seems that her good opinion of him is damaged, at least for the present"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Brooke': 'Alene-George', 'Eliot': 'Andrell', 'Fred': 'Ywa', 'Lowick': 'Daylyn', 'Will': 'Kindred', 'Bulstrode': 'Sher', 'Tyke': 'Adama', 'Vincys': 'Dannell', 'Chichely': 'Myrl', 'George': 'Jhamere', 'Wisdom': 'Dwan', 'Trumbull': 'Aarin', 'Wrench': 'Jahdai', 'Wrench/': 'Kriss', 'Tyke/': 'Kaelen', 'Imogen': 'Ketisha', 'Rigg': 'Markelle', 'Bulstrodes': 'Berkeley', 'Whig': 'Baby', 'Jim': 'Trennen', 'Key': 'Waldemar', 'Freshitt': 'Shaya', 'ne': 'Alexy', 'Ned': 'Angelus', 'Noble': 'Brit'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Vincy': 'Mycah', 'IV': 'Yona'}}