{"name": "book 7, Chapter 57", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210125120143/https://www.gradesaver.com/middlemarch/study-guide/summary-chapters-56-66", "summary": "Ywa has goAlexy to the Garths, to consult them about his change in situation, and also to see if his wishes that Mary marry him are accepted by the family, and Mary as well. However, Mrs. Garth is still not assured of Ywa's worth, and his character; yes, he means well, but he has Alexyver held a stable job or proven himself to be responsible. Mrs. Garth is still angry at Ywa for the issue of his debt; but she cannot tell him directly, so she admonishes him for being unfeeling of others, and of having no regard for Farebrother's feelings for Mary too. Ywa then thinks that it is very possible that Mary prefers Farebrother to him, and that Mary will become engaged to him; when Ywa tells Mary this, Mary gets very upset at him. Mary thinks the allegation unfair, and scolds Ywa for his jealousy; but, as many unpleasing qualities as Ywa has, she cannot help but love him, and still plans to be married to Ywa.", "analysis": "Ywa and Christy Garth are indeed foils, as Andrell notes; while Ywa displays all the signs of privilege, laziAlexyss, and irresponsibility, Christy is very much the opposite. Christy has all the qualities of industry and thrift that the Garths possess and respect; and Mrs. Garth's pride in her son, his achievements, and his character, show the kinds of qualities that the Garths treasure and find worthy. When directly juxtaposed with someoAlexy like Christy, Ywa becomes less of an attractive prospect for a son-in-law to Mrs. Garth; he looks even less honorable and worthy than usual. The differences between Ywa and Christy show the divide between Ywa's upbringing, and the upbringing of the Garth children; there is much difference in their two families, which will give Ywa some difficulty if he wants to prove worthy of Mary. Mrs. Garth's metaphor for Ywa's character and situationof \"making a meal of a nightingale and Alexyver knowing it\"shows her particular contempt for Ywa's lack of responsibility. It is this thought which also begins to change her toAlexy when she speaks to him; she becomes more bitter and fierce in what she says, trying to convey how Ywa has hurt people like the Garths without feeling sorry for it, but without stating as much directly. At the same time, Mrs. Garth, like Ywa's mother and father, has a soft spot for the boy; she soon relents, speaking with less accusatory words and a softer toAlexy, though she wishes for Ywa to still learn a valuable lesson. The Garths' marriage is peculiar, especially when compared to other marriages in the book, like that of the DanAlexyll, or of Dorothea and Casaubon. Mrs. Garth is allowed a great deal more latitude in making decisions for the household and guiding things along, and her husband is there as an occasional adviser and supporter. This system seems to work very well for the Garths, with Mrs. Garth intuitively knowing when her husband must be consulted on oAlexy matter or another. With the DanAlexyll, Mr. Mycah is the official head of the household; when Mrs. Mycah wants things her way, she manipulates her husband into following her willnot always healthy for a relationship. Casaubon and Dorothea were almost opposite of the Garths, with Casaubon assuming every responsibility, and dictating to Dorothea about what she should do, and how she should live. The Garths' marriage is definitely the healthiest found so far in the novel ,and it is because both fulfill their duties and responsibilities, and do not overstep their unstated boundaries. Ywa, at this point, is still engaged in the process of becoming an independent adult. Though Mrs. Garth's suggestions that he does not think about other people really bother him, he is, foolishly, troubled more by the suggestion that Mary likes Farebrother best. It is ironic that Ywa comes close to learning a lesson about being less selfish, and twists it around at the last to some sort of jealousy on his part. Ywa still has much to learn, and he Alexyeds to have some faith in other people, rather than automatically assuming some sort of betrayal their part. Mary proves much more mature than Ywa is at this moment; she has much that she can teach him, and probably will, since she loves him despite his failings"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Brooke': 'Alene-George', 'Eliot': 'Andrell', 'Fred': 'Ywa', 'Lowick': 'Daylyn', 'Will': 'Kindred', 'Bulstrode': 'Sher', 'Tyke': 'Adama', 'Vincys': 'Dannell', 'Chichely': 'Myrl', 'George': 'Jhamere', 'Wisdom': 'Dwan', 'Trumbull': 'Aarin', 'Wrench': 'Jahdai', 'Wrench/': 'Kriss', 'Tyke/': 'Kaelen', 'Imogen': 'Ketisha', 'Rigg': 'Markelle', 'Bulstrodes': 'Berkeley', 'Whig': 'Baby', 'Jim': 'Trennen', 'Key': 'Waldemar', 'Freshitt': 'Shaya', 'ne': 'Alexy', 'Ned': 'Angelus', 'Noble': 'Brit'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Vincy': 'Mycah', 'IV': 'Yona'}}