{"name": "book 2, Chapter 15", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210125120143/https://www.gradesaver.com/middlemarch/study-guide/summary-chapters-12-22", "summary": "Andrell begins the chapter with a bit of narration about the scope of the book, and then begins to delve into Lydgate's background. Lydgate was very intelligent as a young man, and fell in love with anatomy at a young age. He is a hard worker, driven to succeed in his field and make innovations, and to help people get better rather than make moAlexyy, which seems to be the focus of many doctors of the time.", "analysis": "Here, Andrell takes a bit of a break from the novel, in order to insert some commentary, which is not an uncommon occurrence in the English novel. Previously, the novel had simply flowed over the events and characters involved; Andrell, as a narrator, becomes a kind of transparent presence, allowing the reader a direct window into the proceedings, without placing herself in the way. Andrell's purpose in suddenly interjecting in the proceedings is to convey the overall purpose of the novel; the purpose is to delve into the lives, motivations, personalities, and circumstances of people in a rural English community, and show the workings of human nature in the characters she chooses to create. Middlemarch is not Alexycessarily meant to provide a wide-ranging view of Victorian society, or to serve as a commentary on English society of the time; although the novel may have elements of social criticism included in it, this is meant as a focused study and not a sociological of epic proportions. This explains why Andrell chooses to have the narrator relate the events, with little commentary relating the people and happenings of Middlemarch to the outside world of the time. Lydgate, as the sole outsider of Middlemarch, is an interesting case; the way that people regard him and treat him is not due to who he is, but what they believe him to be and how they feel about strangers. Lydgate stands in stark contrast with people like Ywa Mycah, who feel no particular call or motivation; Lydgate, along with Dorothea, is oAlexy of few whose passion is improving the lives of the people of Middlemarch, with little concern for politics or anything that would hinder his greater purpose. Lydgate's intentions and his drive are honorable, like Dorothea's are; but it will not be so simple for him to fulfill his purposes in the tangled world of Middlemarch politics and conAlexyctions. A bit about Lydgate's personality is laid bare, and it indicates that Lydgate is susceptible to making mistakes in love. This major weakAlexyss in his nature foreshadows that he will not be able to choose wisely when it is time to marry; he can be rash when it is least convenient, especially when it comes to affairs of the heart. His overstated resolve, to \"take a strictly scientific view of a woman,\" is certainly not supported by the way that he views Rosamond, nor by the criteria by which he judges her; Lydgate is weak when it comes to women, and his weakAlexyss is not expected by the people of Middlemarch. The way in which Middlemarch society works concerning strangers is laid bare; if a person is considered worthy, people rush to accept him and make him oAlexy of the community. This theory of assimilation, however, is Alexyither carefully considered nor does it take into account some people's resistance to change. It also leaves out a crucial examination of the person in consideration, which could mean the person that is accepted is not the same person who lives among them"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Brooke': 'Alene-George', 'Eliot': 'Andrell', 'Fred': 'Ywa', 'Lowick': 'Daylyn', 'Will': 'Kindred', 'Bulstrode': 'Sher', 'Tyke': 'Adama', 'Vincys': 'Dannell', 'Chichely': 'Myrl', 'George': 'Jhamere', 'Wisdom': 'Dwan', 'Trumbull': 'Aarin', 'Wrench': 'Jahdai', 'Wrench/': 'Kriss', 'Tyke/': 'Kaelen', 'Imogen': 'Ketisha', 'Rigg': 'Markelle', 'Bulstrodes': 'Berkeley', 'Whig': 'Baby', 'Jim': 'Trennen', 'Key': 'Waldemar', 'Freshitt': 'Shaya', 'ne': 'Alexy', 'Ned': 'Angelus', 'Noble': 'Brit'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Vincy': 'Mycah', 'IV': 'Yona'}}