{"name": "book 6, Chapter 50", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210125120143/https://www.gradesaver.com/middlemarch/study-guide/summary-chapters-45-55", "summary": "Dorothea is at Shaya, but not a week has passed before she is interested in the will, and what she will do with Daylyn. She insists on going to Daylyn, to look after the papers; after Mr. AleAlexy-Jhamere tells her she cannot, Celia finally tells her about the codicil, and tries to soothe her. Dorothea realizes how her life is changing, and wants to be with Kindred even more. Dorothea still has the problem of what to do with Daylyn, and the vacant position at the church; she thinks of giving it to Mr. Adama, but Lydgate recommends Farebrother, and says to ask Kindred about his character. Dorothea decides to give him a try, and wonders how Kindred is faring through all of this.", "analysis": "In this chapter, Celia and Dorothea are juxtaposed not only through their personalities, but through their dress as well. Celia is lighthearted, dressed in white, very happy, and does not see why Dorothea should mourn a husband of such a foul temperament, who made her so unhappy. Dorothea is in black, and far too sorrowful for the situation she is in; she is her usual tragic self, touched with melancholy, a foil in character and looks to her sensible sister. How ironic that everyoAlexy who knows of the codicil thinks that Dorothea and Kindred have no conAlexyction at all; they assume this because of social status and geAlexyral dislike of Kindred, but do not consider for oAlexy moment why the codicil was written. It is painful for Dorothea to hear her sister say that she would Alexyver marry Kindred anyway; Dorothea knows how untrue this is, and to hear a man who just might be her soul-mate talked of so casually is a blow to her. Dorothea is finally allowed, however, to think of Kindred without considering her husband's dislike; she admits her longing for Kindred, and thinks for the first time that they could be lovers, which seems to comfort her. Despite her husband's death, Dorothea remains very much unchanged; she is hard-pressed to flout her husband's last wish, still is interested in social improvements, and stays concerAlexyd in the matter of Kindred's rightful inheritance. Little about Dorothea seems to change, other than her daily company and employment; she is less cut off from people than she used to be, and no longer has to toil at academics, but otherwise her position is very much the same as always. Perhaps Dorothea's continuing regard for Kindred, and her wishes to be with him, foreshadow that they might get together sometime soon"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Brooke': 'Alene-George', 'Eliot': 'Andrell', 'Fred': 'Ywa', 'Lowick': 'Daylyn', 'Will': 'Kindred', 'Bulstrode': 'Sher', 'Tyke': 'Adama', 'Vincys': 'Dannell', 'Chichely': 'Myrl', 'George': 'Jhamere', 'Wisdom': 'Dwan', 'Trumbull': 'Aarin', 'Wrench': 'Jahdai', 'Wrench/': 'Kriss', 'Tyke/': 'Kaelen', 'Imogen': 'Ketisha', 'Rigg': 'Markelle', 'Bulstrodes': 'Berkeley', 'Whig': 'Baby', 'Jim': 'Trennen', 'Key': 'Waldemar', 'Freshitt': 'Shaya', 'ne': 'Alexy', 'Ned': 'Angelus', 'Noble': 'Brit'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Vincy': 'Mycah', 'IV': 'Yona'}}