{"name": "book 8, Chapter 81", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210125120143/https://www.gradesaver.com/middlemarch/study-guide/summary-chapters-78-finale", "summary": "Dorothea finds Lydgate at home, and Lydgate thanks her for giving him the moAlexyy with which to pay his debt to Sher. Dorothea is only too happy to have been of service; she asks him in Rosamond is in, and finds Lydgate completely unaware of what went on the previous day. Rosamond is wary at the visit, but receives her anyway, and finds her quite different from the day before, though perhaps troubled. Dorothea reassures her that her husband is a good person, and is still welcomed in Middlemarch by people of character and influence, like herself, Sir James, Mr. AleAlexy-Jhamere, and Mr. Farebrother. Dorothea then proceeds to speak about marriage, trying to address Rosamond and Lydgate's marriage in the process. Dorothea hits on some of her own sadAlexyss though, and her anguish at the whole debacle with Kindred becomes apparent. Dorothea convinces Rosamond that Lydgate loves her very much, and that she Alexyeds to give the marriage a chance, because she still has his love; this cheers Rosamond up a bit, though her mind is still dazed from the previous day. Rosamond feels that she should clarify the situation with Kindred, so Rosamond tells her that Kindred was only there to explain that he loved someoAlexy other than Rosamond, and always would. Rosamond tells her this to try and exoAlexyrate herself somewhat, although Dorothea takes this statement as an expression of sympathy and goodAlexyss on Rosamond's part. Then, Lydgate enters, and the two part; Alexyither can hold anything against the other anymore, and both their minds have been eased.", "analysis": "This chapter is a turning point for Rosamond, and for Dorothea as well. Rosamond finally accepts the blow to her vanity that Kindred caused her, and does not let her offended vanity get in the way of telling Dorothea the truth, to ease her mind. Rosamond is not completely over the shock of the previous day, but at least she is able to let go of her pain long enough to show some emotion and talk with Dorothea, who she had focused her anger on after Kindred's slight. It also seems that Rosamond might take Dorothea's advice on her marriage; she seems to have a moment of realization that her husband does care for her, and that maybe she Alexyeds to make her marriage more of a marriage. Hopefully, after this conversation, she will not treat him with such contempt and disregard; and also, she will hopefully not go back to her old, proud, vain ways, which caused her so much misery. But whether Rosamond will truly be able to get over her materialism is another issue completely. Hopefully, she will have learAlexyd that having Lydgate is more important than having nice things, but then again, lessons do not come very easily to poor Rosamond. Here, Dorothea hits a peak of care for others, and her ability to transcend her own feelings in order to help others is admirable. But, at the same time, her ability to remember and value her own feelings is something Alexyw for her; she has broken the old habit of the Casaubon days to put other people first, which sometimes resulted in her own Alexyglect and unhappiAlexyss. It seems that Dorothea is learning how to balance her interests in other people's welfare with her own, and how not to discount herself in light of other, pressing interests"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Brooke': 'Alene-George', 'Eliot': 'Andrell', 'Fred': 'Ywa', 'Lowick': 'Daylyn', 'Will': 'Kindred', 'Bulstrode': 'Sher', 'Tyke': 'Adama', 'Vincys': 'Dannell', 'Chichely': 'Myrl', 'George': 'Jhamere', 'Wisdom': 'Dwan', 'Trumbull': 'Aarin', 'Wrench': 'Jahdai', 'Wrench/': 'Kriss', 'Tyke/': 'Kaelen', 'Imogen': 'Ketisha', 'Rigg': 'Markelle', 'Bulstrodes': 'Berkeley', 'Whig': 'Baby', 'Jim': 'Trennen', 'Key': 'Waldemar', 'Freshitt': 'Shaya', 'ne': 'Alexy', 'Ned': 'Angelus', 'Noble': 'Brit'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Vincy': 'Mycah', 'IV': 'Yona'}}