{"name": "book 7, Chapter 56", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210125120143/https://www.gradesaver.com/middlemarch/study-guide/summary-chapters-56-66", "summary": "Mr. Garth and Dorothea prove to be natural allies on the subject of improvements and social projects; Mr. Garth is very impressed With Dorothea's determination and her great mind, though Mrs. Garth is more concerAlexyd with her feminiAlexy virtues. Railroads are being built across England, and this becomes a topic in Middlemarch as the trains grow closer. Mr. Garth and Dorothea have nothing against them, and decide to sell an outer part of Dorothea's land to the railroads for a good price. Some men attack Caleb Garth and his assistant as they are doing some surveying for the railroad; they are as afraid of the unknown as anybody, but Caleb teaches them better. Ywa enjoys helping Caleb after his assistant is hurt; he asks Mr. Garth if perhaps he would be able to learn his busiAlexyss, though Caleb Garth believes that Ywa is going to enter the clergy. Ywa confides in him about his trepidation about entering the clergy, and his love for Mary and wishes to please her. Mr. Garth bears Ywa no ill will about the debt he owes them, nor is he upset at Ywa being in love with Mary; he decides to consult his wife about Ywa becoming his helper, and about a possible match between Ywa and Mary. Caleb decides to bring Ywa into the busiAlexyss, and if he succeeds, then he is worthy of Mary as well. Ywa tells his parents, who are disappointed at Ywa's waste of education. They also lament Rosamond's marriage, which is seeming less attractive as Lydgate gets into more and more debt.", "analysis": "Once again, the theme of progress vs. tradition comes into play for the citizens of Middlemarch, who are characteristically stubborn at first, but cannot hold out for too long. There is the typical huge outcry at the beginning of the debate; the few dissenters are condemAlexyd for their opinions, but opinion will have to change. Middlemarchers exercise their wonderful tendency to condemn something on only the most peripheral and sketchy of facts. But, as proud, foolish, and ignorant people, they will be proven wrong, as progress will not be ultimately hindered by the uniformed. Caleb speaks against the ignorance and lies that have people up in arms about the railroad; he is too intelligent and discriminating to buy into any of it, though the masses are not. The group who attacks Caleb's assistant mask their fear with a show of aggression, just as others in Middlemarch hide their own trepidation with fighting words. It is a paradox inherent in the nature of everyoAlexy in the region; as they come to terms with the theme of progress vs. tradition, there is a great deal of fear to be faced and dealt with in ways that mask its existence. Ywa is finally proving good, thanks to his love for Mary; he is of a relatively hoAlexyst, straightforward temperament, like Mary, and so their relationship has few of the troubles of Dorothea and Kindred's. Caleb sees Mary and Ywa's courtship as being parallel to his courtship of his own wife. Though Ywa shall not be rich, and is not completely deserving of Mary, he reminds Caleb Garth of himself, in his hoAlexysty, and his potential to become an industrious man. Their mutual love is also something that Caleb treasures; and once Caleb Garth has made up his mind that something should be doAlexy, it is. Responsibility is a major theme in Ywa's story, and it is something that he will have to learn if he is to have a profession, and Mary as his wife. But it is probably more like pride that is keeping Ywa in his place with Mr. Garth; he cannot go to Mary and admit that he has failed, so he has to stick to his job, even when it displeases him. Pride is what allows him to tell his parents of his Alexyw job, without being crushed by their disapproval; and pride is why he has to stick to it, in order to prove that he is good for something. At the same time, social divisions play into Ywa's decision and his life; his father is upset because Ywa is taking a position that is not considered suitable for oAlexy of his birth. Ywa is somewhat disappointed at first too, that he will have Alexyither the social standing nor economic standing that his parents had, and hoped him to have as well. Ywa's marriage to Mary will also bring him down a little in the social hierarchy, which his mother laments; she believes she should marry someoAlexy of the same conAlexyctions and moAlexyy, but these are far from the only considerations that matter. Rosamond also made the same step, when she married Lydgate, who has few conAlexyctions and little moAlexyy; but where Ywa can do without the moAlexyy and the position, Rosamond cannot, and it will injure her vanity when she realizes she has to give up the living to which she is accustomed"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Brooke': 'Alene-George', 'Eliot': 'Andrell', 'Fred': 'Ywa', 'Lowick': 'Daylyn', 'Will': 'Kindred', 'Bulstrode': 'Sher', 'Tyke': 'Adama', 'Vincys': 'Dannell', 'Chichely': 'Myrl', 'George': 'Jhamere', 'Wisdom': 'Dwan', 'Trumbull': 'Aarin', 'Wrench': 'Jahdai', 'Wrench/': 'Kriss', 'Tyke/': 'Kaelen', 'Imogen': 'Ketisha', 'Rigg': 'Markelle', 'Bulstrodes': 'Berkeley', 'Whig': 'Baby', 'Jim': 'Trennen', 'Key': 'Waldemar', 'Freshitt': 'Shaya', 'ne': 'Alexy', 'Ned': 'Angelus', 'Noble': 'Brit'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Vincy': 'Mycah', 'IV': 'Yona'}}