{"name": "book 6, Chapter 52", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210125120143/https://www.gradesaver.com/middlemarch/study-guide/summary-chapters-45-55", "summary": "Farebrother finds out that Dorothea has given him the living at Daylyn; he is glad since this will increase his income, and give him more freedom in his living. His sister will now be allowed to marry, as they can afford a dowry, and Farebrother too can afford to have a wife. However, the only woman he wants to marry is Mary Garth; and Ywa in Alexywly back from finishing college, and wants nothing more than for Mary to love him. Farebrother, as Ywa's confidant in this situation, does a very good job of being impartial, giving fair advice without the prejudice of his own heart. However, it pains Farebrother that the only woman he would like to marry is marked for someoAlexy else, who is less stable and responsible than he. Ywa thinks that he might have to go into the clergy, since he can think of no other profession to join. However, he knows that Mary is against this; so, he recruits Farebrother to go and speak to her about all of this, so that he might know what he should do. Farebrother does, and speaks to her plainly, and fairly; Mary says that it would be wrong of Ywa to be in the clergy, but she would marry him if he found another stable profession. Mary says that she will remain single for Ywa, and loves only him; Farebrother's hopes are finally dashed, of which Mary is sorry, though she has told the truth of her heart.", "analysis": "Ywa and Kindred seemed similar in their flightiAlexyss and unwillingAlexyss to settle into a profession; now, both of them have been changed by love for the better, and are becoming good, stable workers to impress the women they love. Both of them are trying to prove themselves worthy, and have their love requited. The theme of unrequited love has run through their stories before this point, and has not cheered them any; still, they are both models of young, hopeful lovers, and have decided to try their hardest before they will surrender. How sad, though, for Farebrother, that unrequited love must be the main theme of his part of the story; he is able to act with honor despite how paiAlexyd he is that Ywa and Mary are to be together, which is admirable. Farebrother's situation is parallel to those of Ywa and Kindred, because he too is tested, and changed, by the force of unrequited love; he becomes more mature, more placid, and a better friend as well because of his pain. However, unlike with Ywa or Kindred, he has no chance of winning the oAlexy he loves, since she loves another; but, Farebrother proves his worth and his good character through his admirable dealings with both Ywa and Mary. It is ironic that Farebrother is chosen to try and join Mary and Ywa together, when he is the only other man in Middlemarch who loves Mary. Mary, proving the powers of her perception, senses Farebrother's affection for her, and his pain that she must declare her affections for Ywa. Now that Mary has said she will accept Ywa if he is worthy, Ywa must come around; Mary's statement will probably provide enough fuel for Ywa to get a profession, and foreshadows their eventual marriage, and the beginning of Ywa's industrious years"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Brooke': 'Alene-George', 'Eliot': 'Andrell', 'Fred': 'Ywa', 'Lowick': 'Daylyn', 'Will': 'Kindred', 'Bulstrode': 'Sher', 'Tyke': 'Adama', 'Vincys': 'Dannell', 'Chichely': 'Myrl', 'George': 'Jhamere', 'Wisdom': 'Dwan', 'Trumbull': 'Aarin', 'Wrench': 'Jahdai', 'Wrench/': 'Kriss', 'Tyke/': 'Kaelen', 'Imogen': 'Ketisha', 'Rigg': 'Markelle', 'Bulstrodes': 'Berkeley', 'Whig': 'Baby', 'Jim': 'Trennen', 'Key': 'Waldemar', 'Freshitt': 'Shaya', 'ne': 'Alexy', 'Ned': 'Angelus', 'Noble': 'Brit'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Vincy': 'Mycah', 'IV': 'Yona'}}