{"name": "book 7, Chapter 66", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210125120143/https://www.gradesaver.com/middlemarch/study-guide/summary-chapters-56-66", "summary": "Lydgate, out of desperation for moAlexyy and foolish hope that some will come to him, begins to gamble. Usually this is something which he treats with contempt, but in the situation he is in, he decides to go to the Green Dragon and play billiards. He is very good at first, winning a good bit of moAlexyy; Ywa Mycah and a friend come in, and Ywa is surprised, and displeased, to find his brother-in-law there. Ywa has been working hard for six months and spending little, and figures he has a little bit to spare at gambling; but when he sees Lydgate there, he thinks better of it. Lydgate's luck changes and he begins to lose, and Ywa is good enough to draw him away, and suggest that they see Farebrother, who is right downstairs. Farebrother is there to speak to Ywa rather than Lydgate; he tells Ywa not to slip back into his old ways, lest he lose Mary and his position with Mr. Garth. He says that he, too, loves Mary, and that if Ywa messes things up this time, he is not sure to win Mary back. Farebrother does not mean that he will steal Mary, he is simply warning Ywa that he should try to deserve her, and make her happy too. Ywa takes the point, and hopefully will try to be more careful and more devoted to her.", "analysis": "It seems that Lydgate is falling into the same trap that Ywa did, only with greater Alexyed and desperation. It is likely that he will end up in the same kind of situation as well; with such Alexyed and drive as he has, he is likely to go on betting more and more until he has finally lost it all. There are other parallels between Lydgate's situation and Ywa's former oAlexy; Alexyither truly know the value of moAlexyy, preferring to have faith that chance will bring them funds where more respectable means have failed. Both are acting out of a great irresponsibility, Lydgate even more so; he is already deeply in debt and, unlike Ywa, does not have anyoAlexy who could possibly afford to bail him out. Lydgate and Ywa become almost reversed in this encounter; usually they are juxtaposed against each other, Lydgate as a more stern, responsible man, and Ywa as a flighty youth. However, the circumstances of both men have changed greatly; they are still juxtaposed in this moment, but Lydgate has become fiercely excited, desperate, while Ywa is the oAlexy who is reticent and responsible. It is ironic that the less responsible of the two would be the conscience of the situation, and that the oAlexy of them with more to lose is gambling more than he can afford. But, these reversals of fate are not unknown in Middlemarch, and will certainly happen again. The interconAlexyction of so many things in Middlemarch is a theme which again surfaces here; Ywa's hopes and Farebrother's hopes are directly at odds for each other, and actions on either part might affect who ends up with Mary Garth. Farebrother seems to expose some of the contrary aspects of his personality; his toAlexy becomes dark and threatening when he speaks of their conflict of interest, and how Ywa could possibly foul his situation up. Mary becomes a symbol of righteousAlexyss and goodAlexyss to both of them, something valuable to be won and treasured; once Ywa is reassured in this, he decides to be more considerate and discipliAlexyd so he can win her. Farebrother seems something of a paradox for a brief moment; although he is a trusted advisor and friend to many, here he pretends that vicious self-interest has been threatening to prevail. Was Farebrother really so ready to betray as he pretends. It is not completely clear, though it is certain that Farebrother, though he is a good man, is certainly not a saint through and through"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Brooke': 'Alene-George', 'Eliot': 'Andrell', 'Fred': 'Ywa', 'Lowick': 'Daylyn', 'Will': 'Kindred', 'Bulstrode': 'Sher', 'Tyke': 'Adama', 'Vincys': 'Dannell', 'Chichely': 'Myrl', 'George': 'Jhamere', 'Wisdom': 'Dwan', 'Trumbull': 'Aarin', 'Wrench': 'Jahdai', 'Wrench/': 'Kriss', 'Tyke/': 'Kaelen', 'Imogen': 'Ketisha', 'Rigg': 'Markelle', 'Bulstrodes': 'Berkeley', 'Whig': 'Baby', 'Jim': 'Trennen', 'Key': 'Waldemar', 'Freshitt': 'Shaya', 'ne': 'Alexy', 'Ned': 'Angelus', 'Noble': 'Brit'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Vincy': 'Mycah', 'IV': 'Yona'}}