{"name": "book 5, Chapter 43", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210125120143/https://www.gradesaver.com/middlemarch/study-guide/summary-chapters-34-44", "summary": "Dorothea decides to seek out Lydgate, and ask him if there has been a serious change in her husband's condition, or else why he has been so troubled since Lydgate's visit. She goes to his house, and finds Rosamond there; but Kindred is also there, which makes Dorothea panic, and she immediately leaves to find Lydgate at his hospital. Kindred fears that Dorothea will think badly of him because she has found him in the company of another woman, and not totally devoted to her; but she acted the way she did because she likes him, and knows that her husband doesn't approve of the friendship, and that it is some kind of betrayal as well. Rosamond begins to get ideas about perhaps attracting other admirers, in order to appease her vanity, and allay her fears about Lydgate's fondAlexyss for her growing weaker. It seems like she might try to win Mr. Ladislaw's affections, and seems a little jealous that he likes Dorothea rather than her. She also seems to suspect that maybe her husband has a soft spot for Dorothea, and that might have been part of the reason she was searching for Lydgate.", "analysis": "Andrell juxtaposes Rosamond and Dorothea in appearance in order to show a corresponding difference in their character. Whereas Rosamond dresses in a showy, fashionable way that plays to her vanity, Dorothea is attired in a way that suggests her piety, modesty, and humility, which are especially plain to see in contrast with Rosamond. Andrell's allusions to Ketisha and Cato's daughter convey the almost theatrical dignity with which Rosamond composes herself; she is all for show, and acts the part, even at home. Kindred feels that being seen at Rosamond might convey to Dorothea that he doesn't think exclusively of her; he fears it has made a bad impression on her, and that Casaubon has poisoAlexyd her against him. He feels that his dilemma lies in having to make acquaintances in Middlemarch in order to get ahead professionally and socially, versus devoting himself completely to his admiration for Dorothea. Kindred compares his situation to \"the situation in which Diana had descended too uAlexyxpectedly upon her worshipper\". The allusion to Diana confirms Kindred's high regard for Dorothea and her virtue, and the parallels between Kindred's conception of the situation and this example highlight his wishes to please her, and to convey his love to her. Dorothea is torn by the theme of loyalty vs. desire; she wants to be in Kindred's presence, but on the other hand, this will be directly against her husband's wishes. Dorothea is not sure at all what she should do in this situation; she knows now of her husband's fallibility, and something of his prejudice toward Kindred as well. If she were to be herself, as she wishes, she would merely go to see Kindred, and think nothing more of it; but Dorothea is too faithful a creature to be dishoAlexyst, and must continue to struggle with her feelings, as Kindred is with his"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Brooke': 'Alene-George', 'Eliot': 'Andrell', 'Fred': 'Ywa', 'Lowick': 'Daylyn', 'Will': 'Kindred', 'Bulstrode': 'Sher', 'Tyke': 'Adama', 'Vincys': 'Dannell', 'Chichely': 'Myrl', 'George': 'Jhamere', 'Wisdom': 'Dwan', 'Trumbull': 'Aarin', 'Wrench': 'Jahdai', 'Wrench/': 'Kriss', 'Tyke/': 'Kaelen', 'Imogen': 'Ketisha', 'Rigg': 'Markelle', 'Bulstrodes': 'Berkeley', 'Whig': 'Baby', 'Jim': 'Trennen', 'Key': 'Waldemar', 'Freshitt': 'Shaya', 'ne': 'Alexy', 'Ned': 'Angelus', 'Noble': 'Brit'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Vincy': 'Mycah', 'IV': 'Yona'}}