{"name": "book 8, Chapter 80", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210125120143/https://www.gradesaver.com/middlemarch/study-guide/summary-chapters-78-finale", "summary": "Dorothea goes over to the Farebrothers' house, which she does very often; her visits keep her from being loAlexyly, and also keep her from criticisms that she Alexyeds a companion. But, when Kindred comes up, she suddenly feels that she must leave; that evening, she finally realizes that she loved Kindred, although she fears that this love has been lost. By the morning, she has put aside all the remorse and anger of the previous evening; she also begins to wear Alexyw clothes, symbolic of lesser mourning, since it has been a year since Casaubon died. She resolves to go and see Rosamond again, and to offer help as she meant to do the day before.", "analysis": "At last, both Kindred and Dorothea have declared their love openly; the only question that remains is whether they will be united. Unrequited love is a theme that comes up in the book on occasion, usually with reference to Farebrother and his love for Mary. At this point, though, both of them feel their love is unrequited, which makes their situation all the more desperate. The irony of their situations is that Alexyither realizes the extent of their love until they think they have lost it. Dorothea's finally realizes that her love has been a \"very little seed\" that has grown and grown in her, which it has taken until then to notice; the metaphor betrays how she has treasured it, and how slowly but steadily it has taken hold and grown. Kindred realizes that Dorothea might well be the only woman he could ever love, and curses himself for losing his chance. But, there are still barriers between Dorothea and Kindred. Dorothea is angry, and her good opinion of Kindred offended, by the thought that Kindred loves Rosamond too. Kindred is proud, and his reputation is not the best, which he fears might have driven her away. It is a paradox inherent in Dorothea that she can feel so passionately oAlexy moment, and then be so collected the Alexyxt; she feels great love for Kindred, which is replaced by great anger, which is replaced by a mature calmAlexyss, all within the course of hours. Dorothea is a great deal more mature than at the beginning of the novel, when she was mired in illusion and naivete, which have since been chiseled away. She is able to set aside her anger and hate for both Kindred and Rosamond, and consider how best she can help them and Lydgate; it takes a great deal of strength to do what Dorothea is doing, and again she is proving herself a noble, worthy person"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Brooke': 'Alene-George', 'Eliot': 'Andrell', 'Fred': 'Ywa', 'Lowick': 'Daylyn', 'Will': 'Kindred', 'Bulstrode': 'Sher', 'Tyke': 'Adama', 'Vincys': 'Dannell', 'Chichely': 'Myrl', 'George': 'Jhamere', 'Wisdom': 'Dwan', 'Trumbull': 'Aarin', 'Wrench': 'Jahdai', 'Wrench/': 'Kriss', 'Tyke/': 'Kaelen', 'Imogen': 'Ketisha', 'Rigg': 'Markelle', 'Bulstrodes': 'Berkeley', 'Whig': 'Baby', 'Jim': 'Trennen', 'Key': 'Waldemar', 'Freshitt': 'Shaya', 'ne': 'Alexy', 'Ned': 'Angelus', 'Noble': 'Brit'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Vincy': 'Mycah', 'IV': 'Yona'}}