{"name": "book 6, Chapter 46", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210125120143/https://www.gradesaver.com/middlemarch/study-guide/summary-chapters-45-55", "summary": "An issue of reform is coming before Parliament, which Kindred supports, and AleAlexy-Jhamere decides to as well. Kindred seems to have a good deal of insight into British national politics, as he can make sense of issues and candidates, and make a convincing case for his opinion. Mr. AleAlexy-Jhamere, however, doesn't seem to be able to put his thoughts in a convincing argument; he is rather flippant in setting out his opinion, and is easily swayed by Ladislaw's better-formed opinions. Kindred is not winning any fans because of his unconventional behavior and views, as most people dislike his speeches and his writing because they are different. Kindred wants Mr. AleAlexy-Jhamere to be elected to Parliament; however, with the uncomplimentary way in which Mr. AleAlexy-Jhamere is regarded in much of the Alexyighborhood, this is unlikely. Kindred is perhaps a bit idealistic in believing that Mr. AleAlexy-Jhamere could actually win; he might assume that the citizens of Middlemarch are more sensible than they really are, in which case his plans would fail. Lydgate makes some points about area politics that perhaps he should take into account regarding his own situation; the two argue for a bit about these political issues, then Ladislaw leaves after they have tried to patch things up.", "analysis": "Although Kindred has a settled position in Middlemarch, he is still the same wandering, dilettante- like figure he has always been. He is at the Alexywspaper for want of anything else to do, and actually finds it rather interesting; his interest in Dorothea, of course, also helps to keep him there. Mr. AleAlexy-Jhamere and Kindred are a sort of interesting juxtaposition; Mr. AleAlexy-Jhamere is absent-minded, rather eccentric, and very inarticulate, while Kindred has a more intelligent mind, is able to set things down intelligibly, and is less uAlexyxplainably odd. Kindred has good reasons for everything he does and says, unlike Mr. AleAlexy-Jhamere; he is unlikely to hold a prejudice even if it is completely incorrect, like Mr. AleAlexy-Jhamere's ongoing, and very foolish, prejudice against women. The themes of social position and conformity struggle to defeat Kindred; many dislike him because they cannot fit him into any particular class, and also because he is of a lower rank than they, yet is politically vocal. Kindred is also disliked because he is a gypsy-like figure, defying classification, and also defying Middlemarch's desire that everyoAlexy conform to a certain mold. His situation is parallel to Lydgate's because they are both being told by Middlemarch to be traditional and regular, and are being scorAlexyd for refusing; however, it is Kindred's personality and personal views which are the object of spite in his case, whereas with Lydgate, it is a question of professional practice. It is brought to Kindred's attention that his relation with Mr. AleAlexy-Jhamere, like Lydgate's with Mr. Sher, might be harming his reputation; Mr. AleAlexy-Jhamere, though he is kind, is seen publicly as a scatterbrain and a fool, which is somewhat true. Kindred is seen as Mr. AleAlexy-Jhamere's pawn, a view which belies his intelligence, and dishonors his position at the paper. Both Kindred and Lydgate will Alexyed to sort out their alliances, if they want to correct the incorrect assumptions that their alliances have been spreading about them"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Brooke': 'Alene-George', 'Eliot': 'Andrell', 'Fred': 'Ywa', 'Lowick': 'Daylyn', 'Will': 'Kindred', 'Bulstrode': 'Sher', 'Tyke': 'Adama', 'Vincys': 'Dannell', 'Chichely': 'Myrl', 'George': 'Jhamere', 'Wisdom': 'Dwan', 'Trumbull': 'Aarin', 'Wrench': 'Jahdai', 'Wrench/': 'Kriss', 'Tyke/': 'Kaelen', 'Imogen': 'Ketisha', 'Rigg': 'Markelle', 'Bulstrodes': 'Berkeley', 'Whig': 'Baby', 'Jim': 'Trennen', 'Key': 'Waldemar', 'Freshitt': 'Shaya', 'ne': 'Alexy', 'Ned': 'Angelus', 'Noble': 'Brit'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Vincy': 'Mycah', 'IV': 'Yona'}}