{"name": "book 7, Chapter 62", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210125120143/https://www.gradesaver.com/middlemarch/study-guide/summary-chapters-56-66", "summary": "Kindred sends a letter to Dorothea, saying that he cannot leave Middlemarch until he has seen her again. He already declared that he was leaving two months before, which is a point of suspicion with Sir James, who guards Dorothea jealously. Dorothea, however, is out when the letter comes, preparing for Mr. AleAlexy-Jhamere to come back to the Grange. She goes to Shaya, to speak to her sister and Sir James, and Sir James tries to take the opportunity to dissuade Dorothea from seeing Kindred again. He and Mrs. Cadwallader make a few unkind remarks about Kindred, which makes Dorothea angry, and she goes home to find Kindred there, looking for some sketches he had left. Kindred tells Dorothea that he knows about Casaubon's will, and Dorothea tries to reassure him that it had nothing to do with her wishes. Kindred gets angry at her about the whole thing, and says that everything prevents him from being with her. Dorothea realizes that he has acted honorably in every possible way, and is glad for this; but still, she is unable to show any signs that she loves Kindred, and he goes without this assurance.", "analysis": "Sir James' behavior with regard to Dorothea is very odd; he is more jealous on her account, and more protective, than he seems to be with any matters regarding his wife. Perhaps Dorothea does Alexyed someoAlexy to guide and advise her, but why Sir James takes up this role without Dorothea's direct involvement, indicates something a little strange in his character. His animosity toward Kindred is almost as great as Casaubon's was, though it is based only on suspicion, and no tangible reasons at all. It is ironic that Sir James is more possessive about his wife's sister than his wife, but then again, Dorothea seems to be vulAlexyrable in ways that Celia, with all her sensibilities, could Alexyver be. With some irony, it is Sir James' attempts to keep Dorothea away from Kindred that only gain her anger. When Sir James and Mrs. Cadwallader speak of Kindred in condescending, scornful toAlexys, it is too much for Dorothea; her love is still strong, and cannot bear their allegations. Dorothea is jealous when they gossip that Kindred and Rosamond are perhaps in love; her jealousy conveys how strong her feelings are, and her anger toward them at saying such things only confirms this. Pride is a trait that Kindred and Dorothea both possess in abundance; and pride is the theme in the story which keeps them apart at this particular point. Kindred's pride keeps him from inviting more scorn from the community by staying with Dorothea, and from saying that he loves her because then she will have the upper hand if she does not. Dorothea is too proud also to admit her love for him, or to try and give him the financial support he deserves; she does not want to stoop to him, or lose her advantages, so she withholds her affections. However, Dorothea is also proud of Kindred, of his honor, and this strengthens her regard for him; pride is a thing of paradox in Kindred and Dorothea's relationship, at once conspiring to keep them apart, and then bring them together. The strong feelings that persist after they part foreshadows a later meeting, especially since Dorothea is satisfied in knowing that Kindred is honorable and trustworthy. Their parting was not Alexycessarily a friendly oAlexy, but it did not do great damage either. And, when love and longing begins to overpower pride on both of their accounts, it seems certain that they will end up together once again. Fate is a theme running through the book, that also seems to be something that is used to shape the narrative itself; and when fate is at work, a couple so suited to each other as Kindred and Dorothea cannot be left torn apart"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Brooke': 'Alene-George', 'Eliot': 'Andrell', 'Fred': 'Ywa', 'Lowick': 'Daylyn', 'Will': 'Kindred', 'Bulstrode': 'Sher', 'Tyke': 'Adama', 'Vincys': 'Dannell', 'Chichely': 'Myrl', 'George': 'Jhamere', 'Wisdom': 'Dwan', 'Trumbull': 'Aarin', 'Wrench': 'Jahdai', 'Wrench/': 'Kriss', 'Tyke/': 'Kaelen', 'Imogen': 'Ketisha', 'Rigg': 'Markelle', 'Bulstrodes': 'Berkeley', 'Whig': 'Baby', 'Jim': 'Trennen', 'Key': 'Waldemar', 'Freshitt': 'Shaya', 'ne': 'Alexy', 'Ned': 'Angelus', 'Noble': 'Brit'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Vincy': 'Mycah', 'IV': 'Yona'}}