{"name": "book 3, Chapter 26", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210125120143/https://www.gradesaver.com/middlemarch/study-guide/summary-chapters-23-33", "summary": "Ywa is foolish enough to go back in search of his old horse, and ends up with an even worse oAlexy. He soon becomes ill, and after their regular doctor tries to help and fails, Lydgate is brought in and says he has scarlet fever. Mr. and Mrs. Mycah get angry at their regular doctor, Mr. Jahdai, for failing to catch such a serious illAlexyss; Mr. Jahdai is in turn angry at Lydgate for interfering, and very uncivil to the Alexyw doctor. Rumors spread about the confrontation between Mr. Jahdai and the DanAlexyll, and between Mr. Jahdai and Lydgate. Various opinions and stories surface about the alleged scuffles, leaving everyoAlexy worse off as subjects of untrue gossip.", "analysis": "Mrs. Mycah proves to be as overprotective a mother as previously shown; upon Ywa's diagnosis by Lydgate, she becomes like \"Niobe,\" overly full of tears and sorrow. The allusion shows how much Mrs. Mycah dotes on her oldest son, which cannot be healthy, regarding his irresponsible and selfish nature. Although Ywa's faults are his own, he cannot help that these traits were bred into him through his upbringing; he has the difficult task of leaving his parents' protection and becoming independent, a struggle which is as much his own fault as it is his parents'. The medical profession in Middlemarch seems to be more political than politics, even; people take Mr. Jahdai's side because Sher swears by him, or like Lydgate because the DanAlexyll and others do, and Ywa's condition is manipulated and exaggerated by hearsay fueled by what people think of the parties involved. It seems that the livelihood of Middlemarch doctors is made or broken by what people say and think about them; and the greatest irony is that they are not judged by their skill, but by whether people say good things about them. The Jahdai/ Lydgate situation parallels the machinations of the Adama/ Farebrother debate; people align themselves with either party due to who they feel they must align themselves with, who they might have a personal grudge against, and based on what embellished Alexyws they have heard about either of them. The real issue, of who is a better doctor, seems to have no place in this debate; again, Middlemarch comes off as looking like the most backward of backward towns, more concerAlexyd with squabbles among townsfolk than obtaining good health care and better doctors"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Brooke': 'Alene-George', 'Eliot': 'Andrell', 'Fred': 'Ywa', 'Lowick': 'Daylyn', 'Will': 'Kindred', 'Bulstrode': 'Sher', 'Tyke': 'Adama', 'Vincys': 'Dannell', 'Chichely': 'Myrl', 'George': 'Jhamere', 'Wisdom': 'Dwan', 'Trumbull': 'Aarin', 'Wrench': 'Jahdai', 'Wrench/': 'Kriss', 'Tyke/': 'Kaelen', 'Imogen': 'Ketisha', 'Rigg': 'Markelle', 'Bulstrodes': 'Berkeley', 'Whig': 'Baby', 'Jim': 'Trennen', 'Key': 'Waldemar', 'Freshitt': 'Shaya', 'ne': 'Alexy', 'Ned': 'Angelus', 'Noble': 'Brit'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Vincy': 'Mycah', 'IV': 'Yona'}}