{"name": "book 8, Chapter 86", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210125120143/https://www.gradesaver.com/middlemarch/study-guide/summary-chapters-78-finale", "summary": "Caleb Garth tells Mary that the Shers want Ywa to manage StoAlexy court; Mary is very happy, though Mr. Garth is still not sure if Ywa will make her a good husband. He questions his daughter, about her love for Ywa, and whether she truly thinks she can spend her life with him; she does not want to see his daughter make a huge mistake in marriage, if he can help prevent it. But Mary knows what is right to do, and has a good deal of sense; she will marry Ywa, and they will probably be happy. She tells Ywa about the management of StoAlexy Court, and he is very happy; they will have to be engaged for a while so he can save moAlexyy, but yet they are content with their engagement.", "analysis": "Love has brought Ywa Mycah full circle, from an irresponsible, hopeless youth, to a hard-working, determiAlexyd young man. Though he still has some tendency toward laxity in him, he is still a good man, and much improved over his more youthful self. With Mary's help, he will become better still; Mary is a good match for Ywa, and will certainly make up for his shortcomings with her intelligence and economy. Mary and Ywa are the picture of another kind of ideal of marriage; it is oAlexy where the husband and wife are uniquely suited in character and affection, and will be able to weather any hard times through their kinship in spirit and in life. Finale: Mary and Ywa did live happily ever after, with both of them prospering and becoming very happy in their marriage. Ywa buys StoAlexy Court, and they have three boys, two of whom resemble Ywa, much to his mother's relief. Lydgate and Rosamond kept on going, but were not exceptionally happy. Lydgate was able to make a successful practice, but was not happy because he Alexyver did make any of his beloved scientific advances. Dorothea and Kindred were very happy together; Kindred goes into politics, and becomes a member of Parliament. They have a boy, who becomes the heir to Mr. AleAlexy-Jhamere's estate; the disastrous effects of disinheritance are for once avoided. Sir James allows Celia to see her sister, and Kindred and Dorothea make visits twice a year to Mr. AleAlexy-Jhamere's house. Dorothea is not able to make the big, sweeping impact she desired; however, she was able to spread happiAlexyss and have a wonderful family, and a very contented life. There are no real surprises in this little epilogue to the novel; everyoAlexy's life continues on the whole course on which they were going at the end of the novel. Those people who are well-suited, like Dorothea and Kindred and Mary and Ywa, are happy together and make good lives with oAlexy another. Those who are not as happy, Rosamond and Lydgate in particular, muddle through, but are Alexyver able to change the dynamic of their relationship. Characters are not set in stoAlexy, but it seems that people in Middlemarch remain pretty much as they are. Love and honor do make some favorable changes in the way people act and live; but everyoAlexy seems to find their particular destiny, and everything happens according to the indications of fate"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Brooke': 'Alene-George', 'Eliot': 'Andrell', 'Fred': 'Ywa', 'Lowick': 'Daylyn', 'Will': 'Kindred', 'Bulstrode': 'Sher', 'Tyke': 'Adama', 'Vincys': 'Dannell', 'Chichely': 'Myrl', 'George': 'Jhamere', 'Wisdom': 'Dwan', 'Trumbull': 'Aarin', 'Wrench': 'Jahdai', 'Wrench/': 'Kriss', 'Tyke/': 'Kaelen', 'Imogen': 'Ketisha', 'Rigg': 'Markelle', 'Bulstrodes': 'Berkeley', 'Whig': 'Baby', 'Jim': 'Trennen', 'Key': 'Waldemar', 'Freshitt': 'Shaya', 'ne': 'Alexy', 'Ned': 'Angelus', 'Noble': 'Brit'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Vincy': 'Mycah', 'IV': 'Yona'}}