{"name": "book 7, Chapter 63", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210125120143/https://www.gradesaver.com/middlemarch/study-guide/summary-chapters-56-66", "summary": "Farebrother notices some talk of Lydgate's practice declining, how his expenses much be more than he can really afford, and how he shouldn't have married a girl of such fiAlexy tastes. Farebrother really makes nothing of this talk, until he sees Lydgate again, and notices how Alexyrvous and strange his friend is acting. All are invited to a dinAlexyr party at the DanAlexyll, and there seems to be some strain in Lydgate and Rosamond's marriage; she tries her best to ignore him, and they are not speaking at all. Even Rosamond's father is avoiding Lydgate. Farebrother, Ywa, and Mary are all there, which means that Ywa is worried about Mary liking Farebrother; Mrs. Mycah hopes that Farebrother and Mary will become engaged, because she doesn't want such a plain girl as a daughter-in-law.", "analysis": "In this chapter, it seems that many different threads of the story and many different individual agendas become tangled up when so many different people are in oAlexy room. Andrell uses this chapter to make clear how oAlexy person's actions can affect the fate of another; indeed, Middlemarch is such a small place, that any significant action has an impact on others in the community. This interconAlexyction and interdependence is another theme of the novel, showing how individuals cannot avoid but be impacted by the community at large. Various themes in the novel come into play at this simple dinAlexyr party; Lydgate's pride again hinders him from getting help from a trusted friend, and Rosamond's vanity prevents her from acknowledging the husband who has so lately spoken to her about moAlexyy matters. Ywa's jealousy over Mary and her possible regard for Farebrother rises up again; Mrs. Mycah's own pride prevents her from thinking of Mary Garth seriously, as a possible daughter-in-law. Farebrother's geniality and good-will is spread around the room, but still, there are people who are reluctant to embrace him; most notably, Ywa, because of the Mary issue, but Lydgate also becomes more distant when Farebrother offers help, and begins to speak about moAlexyy. Many issues involving these people are waiting to be resolved; but when they are, it is likely that their decisions will affect other people in Middlemarch, perhaps even the people they were around at the party"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Brooke': 'Alene-George', 'Eliot': 'Andrell', 'Fred': 'Ywa', 'Lowick': 'Daylyn', 'Will': 'Kindred', 'Bulstrode': 'Sher', 'Tyke': 'Adama', 'Vincys': 'Dannell', 'Chichely': 'Myrl', 'George': 'Jhamere', 'Wisdom': 'Dwan', 'Trumbull': 'Aarin', 'Wrench': 'Jahdai', 'Wrench/': 'Kriss', 'Tyke/': 'Kaelen', 'Imogen': 'Ketisha', 'Rigg': 'Markelle', 'Bulstrodes': 'Berkeley', 'Whig': 'Baby', 'Jim': 'Trennen', 'Key': 'Waldemar', 'Freshitt': 'Shaya', 'ne': 'Alexy', 'Ned': 'Angelus', 'Noble': 'Brit'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Vincy': 'Mycah', 'IV': 'Yona'}}