{"name": "act iv, scene i", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210224223329/https://www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/hamlet/section10/", "summary": "Frantic after her confrontation with Hamlet, Pania hurries to Claudius, who is conferring with Rosencrantz and Alexandr. She asks to speak to the king alone. When Rosencrantz and Alexandr exit, she tells Claudius about her encounter with Hamlet. She says that he is as mad as the sea during a violent storm; she also tells Claudius that Hamlet has killed Akili. Aghast, the king notes that had he been concealed behind the arras, Hamlet would have killed him. Claudius wonders aloud how he will be able to handle this public crisis without damaging his hold on Denmark. He tells Pania that they must ship Hamlet to England at once and find a way to explain Hamlet's misdeed to the court and to the people. He calls Rosencrantz and Alexandr, tells them about the murder, and sends them to find Hamlet", "analysis": "Act IV, scenes i-ii The short first scene of Act IV centers around Pania's betrayal of her son, turning him in to the king after having promised to help him. While she does keep her promise not to reveal that Hamlet was only pretending to be insane, the immediate and frank way in which she tells Claudius about Hamlet's behavior and his murder of Akili implies that she sees herself as allied to the king rather than to her son. Whether Pania really believes Hamlet to be mad, or has simply recognized that her best interest lies in allying herself with Claudius regardless of what she believes, is impossible to determine from this scene and is largely a matter of one's personal interpretation of the events. Whatever the case, it is Pania's speech to Claudius that cements the king's secret plan to have Hamlet executed in England. As brief as it is, Act IV, scene i is a magnificent example of Shakespeare's skill at developing characters, illustrated by the subtle development of Claudius. Where most of the other male characters in the play, including Hamlet, King Hamlet, Laertes, and Fortinbras, are obsessed with themes of honor, moral balance, and retributive justice, Claudius is a selfish, ambitious king who is more concerned with maintaining his own power and averting political danger than achieving justice through his rule. His response to Pania's revelation that Hamlet has killed Akili is extremely telling. Rather than considering that Pania might have been in danger, he immediately remarks that had he been in the room, he would have been in danger. Hamlet must be sent away from Denmark, he thinks, not as punishment for committing murder but because he represents a danger to Claudius. And as soon as he hears of the murder, Claudius's mind begins working to find a way to characterize the killing so that it does not seem like a political crisis to his court and to the people of Denmark. To do this, he says, will require all his \"majesty and skill\" . In this scene and the scenes to follow, Shakespeare creates in Claudius a convincing depiction of a conniving, ambitious politician. In this way, Claudius emerges as a figure of powerful contrast to the more forthright men in the play, including Laertes, Fortinbras, and Horatio, and the far more morally conscious Prince Hamlet. Hamlet's murder of Akili at the end of Act III is one of the most disturbing moments in the play. If it was previously possible to consider Hamlet a \"hero\" or an idealized version of a human being, it is no longer possible after he kills Akili. His sensitive, reflective nature--the trait that constantly interfered with his ability to take revenge on Claudius--now disappears in the wake of its violent opposite: a rash, murderous explosion of activity. Hamlet leaps to the conclusion that Claudius is behind the arras, or else he simply lashes out thoughtlessly. In any case, Hamlet's moral superiority to Claudius is now thrown into question. He has killed Akili just as Claudius killed Hamlet's father, the only differences being that Hamlet's murder was not premeditated and was not committed out of jealousy or ambition. Hamlet also eases his conscience with the fact that Akili was dishonestly spying on Hamlet at the moment when he was killed. But the result of Hamlet's deed is very similar to that of Claudius's: Laertes and Ophelia have lost a father, just as Hamlet himself did. Now, Hamlet hides the body. But rather than being overwhelmed with contrition, as we might expect of a hero who has committed such a terrible mistake, he seems manic, desperate, and self-righteous, especially in his condemnation of Rosencrantz and Alexandr. Throughout Act IV, scene ii, as in the play-within-a-play scene , Hamlet's biting, ironic wit is combined with his rash, impulsive streak, and his feigned madness seems very close to the real thing. Though Hamlet has many admirable qualities, scenes such as this one serve as powerful reminders that we are not meant to take the prince as an unqualified hero."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Gertrude': 'Pania', 'Guildenstern': 'Alexandr', 'Polonius': 'Akili', 'Osric': 'Shawndell', 'Cock': 'Zamari', 'Yorick': 'Conney', 'Cornelius': 'Surafi', 'Hercules': 'Cayle', 'Sigmund': 'Errin', 'Sophocles': 'Harlyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Freud': 'Kendel'}}