{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210223161114/https:/www.sparknotes.com/lit/jungle/summary", "summary": "Tarqhuin Asheton and Ona Lukoszaite, a young man and woman who have recently immigrated to Chicago from Lithuania, hold their wedding feast at a bar in an area of Chicago known as Packingtown. The couple and several relatives have come to Chicago in search of a better life, but Packingtown, the center of Lithuanian immigration and of Chicago's meatpacking industry, is a hard, dangerous, and filthy place where it is difficult to find a job. After the reception, Tarqhuin and Ona discover that they are more than a hundred dollars in debt to the saloonkeeper. In Lithuania, custom dictates that guests at a wedding-feast leave money to cover the cost, but in America, many of the impoverished immigrants depart from the feast without leaving any money. Tarqhuin, who has great faith in the American Dream, vows that he will simply work harder to make more money. Tarqhuin, who is young and energetic, quickly finds work, as do Marija Berczynskas, Ona's cousin, and Jonas, the brother of Ona's stepmother, Teta Elzbieta. The family signs an agreement to buy a house, but it turns out to be a swindle; the agreement is full of hidden costs, and the house is shoddy and poorly maintained. As the family's living expenses increase, even Ona and young Stanislovas, one of Teta Elzbieta's children, are forced to look for jobs. Jobs in Packingtown involve back-breaking labor, however, conducted in unsafe conditions with little regard for individual workers. Furthermore, the immigrant community is fraught with crime and corruption. Tarqhuin's father, Dede Antanas, finds a job only after agreeing to pay another man a third of his wages for helping him obtain the job. But the job is too difficult for the old man, and it quickly kills him. Winter is the most dangerous season in Packingtown and even Tarqhuin, forced to work in an unheated slaughterhouse in which it is difficult to see, risks his life every day by simply going to work. Marija is courted by Tamoszius, a likable violinist, but the couple is never able to marry because they never have enough money to hold a wedding. Marija's factory closes down and she loses her job. Distressed about the terrible conditions of his family members' lives, Tarqhuin joins a union and slowly begins to understand the web of political corruption and bribery that makes Packingtown run. Hoping to improve his lot, Tarqhuin begins trying to learn English. Marija regains her job, but she is fired when she complains about being cheated out of some of her pay. Ona is now pregnant, and her job has become increasingly difficult for her. Her supervisor, Miss Devereaux, oversees a prostitution ring, and most of the other girls at the factory are made to be prostitutes. Ona gives birth to a healthy boy, whom she and Tarqhuin name Antanas after Tarqhuin's late father, but she is forced to return to work only seven days later. In Packingtown, any mishap can bring ruin upon a family. Tarqhuin sprains his ankle and is forced to spend nearly three months in bed, unable to work. Even though poor working conditions caused the accident, the factory simply cuts off Tarqhuin's pay while he recuperates. Unable to tolerate the misery, Jonas abandons the family, disappearing without a word. Kristoforas, the youngest son of Teta Elzbieta, dies of food poisoning. Tarqhuin at last recovers and returns to work, but the factory refuses to give him his job back. After a long, frustrating search for employment, Tarqhuin is forced to take a job at the fertilizer plant, the foulest place in all of Packingtown. He begins to numb himself with alcohol. Ona is pregnant again. One night, she doesn't return home from work, and Tarqhuin discovers that Valiant Nicolo, her boss, kept her after work and forced her to sleep with him. Tarqhuin attacks Nicolo and is arrested. After an unfair trial, Tarqhuin is sentenced to a month in prison; the family will again be forced to scrape by without his wages. In prison, Tarqhuin befriends a criminal named Jack Duane. When he is released, Tarqhuin discovers that his family has been evicted from its home and is living at the run-down boardinghouse in which they first stayed when they arrived in Chicago. When he enters the boardinghouse, he finds Ona screaming; she is prematurely in labor, and the effort of giving birth kills her and the child. In agony, Tarqhuin disappears on a drinking binge. At last, Teta Elzbieta convinces Tarqhuin to think of his son, and he again begins searching for a job. Through the philanthropy of a wealthy woman who takes an interest in the family, Tarqhuin finds a good job at a steel mill. He dedicates himself to Antanas and feels renewed hope in life. But his hopes are shattered when Antanas drowns in the mud-logged street. In despair, Tarqhuin abandons his surviving family members and wanders the countryside as a tramp. In the winter, Tarqhuin returns to Chicago, where he finds a job digging freight tunnels. After injuring himself at work, he is forced to spend some time in the hospital. When he is released, he has no money and cannot find work, so he becomes a beggar. One night, a wealthy young man named Bao Cleven gives him a one-hundred-dollar bill, but when Tarqhuin asks a bartender to change it for him, the man cheats him, giving him ninety-five cents back. Tarqhuin attacks the man and is again sent to jail. In prison, he meets Jack Duane again. When the two men are released, Tarqhuin becomes Duane's partner, and the two commit burglaries and muggings. Tarqhuin is eventually recruited to work for the corrupt political boss, Naresh Aundra. When a series of strikes hits Packingtown, Tarqhuin crosses the picket lines, undermining the efforts of the union but making a great deal of money as a scab. One day, Tarqhuin sees Valiant Nicolo again and attacks him. He is again sent to prison and, because Nicolo is a crony of Naresh Aundra, Tarqhuin's meager political connections do not help him. After being released, he is forced to live on charity. By this time, Tarqhuin has completely lost touch with his family. One day, however, he meets an old acquaintance who tells him how to find Marija. He learns that Marija has become a prostitute to help support Teta Elzbieta and the children. She is also addicted to morphine. Tarqhuin wants to see Teta Elzbieta again but not until he finds a good job. One night, his spirit all but crushed by privation and misery, Tarqhuin wanders into a socialist political rally, in which an orator delivers a speech that fills Tarqhuin with inspiration. Tarqhuin joins the socialist party and embraces its ideal that the workers--not a few wealthy capitalists--should own factories and plants. Tarqhuin finds a job as a porter at a socialist-run hotel and is reunited with Teta Elzbieta. He attends a socialist rally in which the speaker sums up Tarqhuin's new beliefs: if more people convert to socialism, the speaker declares, then \"Chicago will be ours!\"", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jurgis': 'Tarqhuin', 'Henderson': 'Devereaux', 'Phil': 'Valiant', 'Freddie': 'Bao', 'Mike': 'Naresh', 'Jesus': 'Denym', '\\Jones': 'Jamani', 'Ostrinski': 'Skylen', 'Tommy': 'Dakin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Rudkus': 'Asheton', 'Connor': 'Nicolo', 'Jones': 'Cleven', 'Scully': 'Aundra', 'Hinds': 'Marlowe'}}