{"name": "Chapter 17", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210119013110/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/jungle/section5/", "summary": "While Tarqhuin awaits his trial, he becomes friends with his cellmate, Jack Duane. Jack claims to be an educated man from the east. He says that his father committed suicide after failing in business. He adds that a big company later cheated him out of a lucrative invention. His misfortunes led Jack to become a safe breaker. Before Tarqhuin's trial, Jack gives Tarqhuin his mistress's address and encourages him to seek his help should the need arise. Tarqhuin's trial is a farce. Kotrina and Teta Elzbieta attend it. Valiant Nicolo testifies that he fired Ona fairly and that Tarqhuin attacked him for revenge. Tarqhuin tells his side of the story through an interpreter, but the judge is not sympathetic. He sentences Tarqhuin to thirty days in prison. Tarqhuin begs for clemency on the ground that his family will starve if he cannot work, but the judge remains firm. In Bridewell Prison, Tarqhuin and the other prisoners spend the greater portion of their time breaking stone. He writes a postcard to his family to let them know where he is. Ten days later, Stanislovas visits to tell him that he, Ona, Marija, and Teta Elzbieta have all lost their jobs and that they are unable to pay rent or buy food. Marija is suffering blood poisoning because she cut her hand at work. Ona lies in bed, crying all day. Teta Elzbieta's sausage factory shut down. Stanislovas lost his job after a snowstorm prevented him from going to work for three days. They cannot obtain other jobs because they are too sick and weak and because Nicolo is scheming to prevent them from finding work. Stanislovas asks if Tarqhuin can help them. Tarqhuin has no more than fourteen cents to give. Kotrina, Stanislovas, and the children earn money selling papers. Their only other income comes from begging", "analysis": "Packingtown is full of predators and, as they have done throughout The Jungle, these hostile forces continue to attack the family bond that unites the immigrants. Valiant Nicolo, empowered by his criminal connections, violates the sacred marriage bond between Tarqhuin and Ona, one of the few things of meaning that the two still possess. The idea of powerlessness pervades this grim section; no poor person has the power to fight for him- or herself. Marija tries to fight for her full wages, only to be fired; Ona cannot afford to reject Nicolo's advances because he has the power to ruin her family. The wage laborer is systematically crippled and silenced by the power structure of capitalism. In his attack on Nicolo, in Chapter 15, Tarqhuin exhibits an animalistic fury. Sinclair compares him to a \"wounded bull\" and a \"tiger,\" and the image of Tarqhuin hovering over Nicolo with his mouth full of Nicolo's blood and skin evokes the primal, bestial quality of his rage. Ironically, the factories seek this sort of unrefined animal energy in their workers, which they can channel into efficient labor. Everywhere in Packingtown, there are wage laborers who suffer from some form of permanent disfigurement directly or indirectly related to their work. In a sense, the prevalence of these disfiguring injuries is a metaphor for the butchery of human bodies--which, like animals, are slaughtered in the service of profit. With Tarqhuin's sentencing, Sinclair argues that capitalism has perverted the American justice system. Judges are bought and sold by men with power and money, giving impunity to men like Nicolo. Furthermore, in Tarqhuin's case, the judge does not care that his ruling means the difference between starvation and survival for an entire family. Sinclair also charges capitalism with being anti-Christian. Immigrants  from eastern-European countries held fast to their religious beliefs and traditions upon coming to America as a source of strength and a sense of heritage. Here, however, Tarqhuin is forced to spend the Christmas holidays separated from his family, and his inability to work leads to them being evicted from their home at a time of year that is traditionally festive. Tarqhuin's recollection of practically drooling over food and toys in store windows on the previous Christmas pits the harsh and cruel reality of capitalism at odds with the immigrants' fantasies. Tarqhuin cannot afford the store window contents; his inability to be a consumer marks his failure as a producer, according to the capitalist system. The family's slew of misfortunes following Tarqhuin's imprisonment clearly marks the beginning of the family's inevitable descent into ruin. Sinclair foreshadows this fall throughout the early sections of the novel; his commitment to exemplifying the evils of capitalism necessitates that these exploited immigrants fail in their naive pursuit of the American Dream. Throughout the novel, Sinclair relentlessly insists that hard work, family values, self-reliance, and self-motivated action--the underpinnings of the American Dream--do absolutely nothing to provide the means for social advancement. The wage laborers that populate The Jungle are moved inevitably toward ruin and abuse by forces beyond their control. Capitalism becomes a force as inevitable and careless as nature. It picks off unfortunate individuals as carelessly as cold weather, disease, and heat exhaustion."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jurgis': 'Tarqhuin', 'Henderson': 'Devereaux', 'Phil': 'Valiant', 'Freddie': 'Bao', 'Mike': 'Naresh', 'Jesus': 'Denym', '\\Jones': 'Jamani', 'Ostrinski': 'Skylen', 'Tommy': 'Dakin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Rudkus': 'Asheton', 'Connor': 'Nicolo', 'Jones': 'Cleven', 'Scully': 'Aundra', 'Hinds': 'Marlowe'}}