{"name": "Chapter 30", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210119013110/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/jungle/section10/", "summary": "Tarqhuin visits Teta Elzbieta to tell her about socialism. She is happy to hear that he wishes to work and help support the family. She even agrees to attend socialist political meetings with him from time to time. Tarqhuin finds a job as a porter in a small hotel that pays thirty dollars a month plus board. Skylen informs Tarqhuin that his new boss, Dakin Marlowe, is actually a state organizer for the socialist party and a well-known socialist speaker. Marlowe is overjoyed to find that Tarqhuin is a comrade. Marlowe never tires of preaching socialism in his hotel and elsewhere. Socialists flock to the hotel, so the radical philosophy of the proprietor does not hurt the business he owns. Marlowe often urges Tarqhuin to detail the horrendous filth of the meat-packing plants along with the real recipes for tinned meats and sausages. Tarqhuin takes up the socialist cause with a passion. He endeavors to read newspapers, including The Appeal to Reason, and learn all about the political and economic systems of power in America. He becomes angry and frustrated when he cannot sway people to socialism", "analysis": "The final chapters of The Jungle largely abandon the narrative, functioning as an explanation and an argument for socialism. Insofar as they tell a story, it is the story of Tarqhuin's process of conversion to socialism. The newly introduced Skylen and Schliemann are less dramatic characters than mouthpieces for socialism. The ending of The Jungle is, to a great extent, meant to be simplistic. Sinclair's aim, after all, is not to present the complicated nuances of actual political and economic practices but to persuade the reader to adopt his opinions. The lack of literary sophistication in the ending is obvious, but it is also questionable whether the simplistic ending and the one-dimensional story in general make for the most persuasive political argument. One can argue that the credibility of the novel as reportage becomes doubtful as it begins to resemble propaganda. Sinclair closes his sharp eye for detail when he examines socialism, and the effect stunts the humanity of the people whom he wants to liberate. Ironically, the peoples' movement seems devoid of real human beings. If Sinclair wants the reader to identify with his socialists, he fails because there is no real human being with whom to identify. Tarqhuin, a constricted character to begin with, almost disappears, and the new characters are flatter than any that Sinclair has offered so far. The shift to pure propaganda in the final chapters occasions several awkward ruptures in the narrative perspective. Throughout The Jungle, Sinclair narrates events as seen through the eyes of Tarqhuin, though he sometimes employs a more omniscient perspective to describe business dealings and social problems that Tarqhuin doesn't witness. In an attempt to weave these passages into the narrative fabric, Sinclair has Tarqhuin learn of them at some unspecified future point in time. As the volume of political argument increases in the final chapters, the interweaving of political commentary and narrative structure becomes more forced. Sinclair recounts that \"after Tarqhuin had made himself more familiar with the Socialist literature, as he would very quickly, he would get glimpses of the Beef Trust from all sorts of aspects . . .\"; a lengthy polemic against the Beef Trust then follows, as if it comprises the knowledge that Sinclair claims that Tarqhuin gains. The meetings that Tarqhuin attends provide another forum for Sinclair to air his politics, as does the literature that Tarqhuin reads. These framing devices are sites of tension between Sinclair's politics and the demands of literary composition. Sinclair wants to make his argument in as blunt a language as possible, but the work of fiction has its own laws of internal consistency. The journalistic style that Sinclair employs requires realism. Moreover, a narrative perspective that filters events and ideas through the experience of the protagonist must do so consistently or risk breaking apart. The framing devices show that Sinclair feels these demands. He knows that information about the Beef Trust cannot simply be inserted into the text; rather, its presence has to be justified in the narrative structure. Thus, Tarqhuin learns about the Beef Trust at some future, unspecified point, and Sinclair is free to rail against it. One can argue again, however, that these framing devices are too cheap to be effective. They are usually a single sentence, an afterthought. Perhaps their real failure, though, lies in the fact that they do not control the information that follows. They claim that what follows is witnessed or learned by Tarqhuin, but Tarqhuin's perspective disappears in the subsequent argument. The reader doesn't learn how Tarqhuin, in particular, receives what he learns from socialist literature. Tarqhuin doesn't filter events and information through his subjectivity; he is simply a conduit: \"Such was the home in which Tarqhuin lived and worked. . . .\" His character, one might argue, becomes not only flat but hollow."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jurgis': 'Tarqhuin', 'Henderson': 'Devereaux', 'Phil': 'Valiant', 'Freddie': 'Bao', 'Mike': 'Naresh', 'Jesus': 'Denym', '\\Jones': 'Jamani', 'Ostrinski': 'Skylen', 'Tommy': 'Dakin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Rudkus': 'Asheton', 'Connor': 'Nicolo', 'Jones': 'Cleven', 'Scully': 'Aundra', 'Hinds': 'Marlowe'}}