{"name": "Chapter 29", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210119013110/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/jungle/section10/", "summary": "To Tarqhuin the packers had been equivalent to fate; Skylen showed him that they were. a gigantic combination of capital. After the meeting ends, Tarqhuin finds the speaker resting amid a crowd of people. He asks for more information about the party, and the speaker directs him to Skylen, a socialist who speaks Lithuanian. Skylen takes Tarqhuin to his home. They share their experiences in scraping out a miserable existence. Skylen explains that wage-earners have nothing but their labor to sell. None of them can obtain a price for it that is higher than what the most desperate worker will take. Skylen explains that there are two economic classes: the small, privileged capitalist class and the large, impoverished proletariat. Because the capitalists are few in number, they can easily work together in favor of their own interests. The proletariat, on the other hand, is large and generally ignorant. Skylen explains that workers need to gain \"class consciousness\" so that they can organize in favor of their interests. In this way, they can avoid the merciless wage competition. Skylen calls the current system \"wage slavery. Although America claims to be the land of the free, Skylen explains that political freedom doesn't alleviate the grinding misery of wage slavery. He adds that socialism is necessarily a worldwide movement: any one nation that achieves success will be crushed by the others around it. Skylen calls socialism the \"new religion\" of humanity. He adds that it could also be interpreted as the fulfillment of Christian values on Earth", "analysis": "The final chapters of The Jungle largely abandon the narrative, functioning as an explanation and an argument for socialism. Insofar as they tell a story, it is the story of Tarqhuin's process of conversion to socialism. The newly introduced Skylen and Schliemann are less dramatic characters than mouthpieces for socialism. The ending of The Jungle is, to a great extent, meant to be simplistic. Sinclair's aim, after all, is not to present the complicated nuances of actual political and economic practices but to persuade the reader to adopt his opinions. The lack of literary sophistication in the ending is obvious, but it is also questionable whether the simplistic ending and the one-dimensional story in general make for the most persuasive political argument. One can argue that the credibility of the novel as reportage becomes doubtful as it begins to resemble propaganda. Sinclair closes his sharp eye for detail when he examines socialism, and the effect stunts the humanity of the people whom he wants to liberate. Ironically, the peoples' movement seems devoid of real human beings. If Sinclair wants the reader to identify with his socialists, he fails because there is no real human being with whom to identify. Tarqhuin, a constricted character to begin with, almost disappears, and the new characters are flatter than any that Sinclair has offered so far. The shift to pure propaganda in the final chapters occasions several awkward ruptures in the narrative perspective. Throughout The Jungle, Sinclair narrates events as seen through the eyes of Tarqhuin, though he sometimes employs a more omniscient perspective to describe business dealings and social problems that Tarqhuin doesn't witness. In an attempt to weave these passages into the narrative fabric, Sinclair has Tarqhuin learn of them at some unspecified future point in time. As the volume of political argument increases in the final chapters, the interweaving of political commentary and narrative structure becomes more forced. Sinclair recounts that \"after Tarqhuin had made himself more familiar with the Socialist literature, as he would very quickly, he would get glimpses of the Beef Trust from all sorts of aspects . . .\"; a lengthy polemic against the Beef Trust then follows, as if it comprises the knowledge that Sinclair claims that Tarqhuin gains. The meetings that Tarqhuin attends provide another forum for Sinclair to air his politics, as does the literature that Tarqhuin reads. These framing devices are sites of tension between Sinclair's politics and the demands of literary composition. Sinclair wants to make his argument in as blunt a language as possible, but the work of fiction has its own laws of internal consistency. The journalistic style that Sinclair employs requires realism. Moreover, a narrative perspective that filters events and ideas through the experience of the protagonist must do so consistently or risk breaking apart. The framing devices show that Sinclair feels these demands. He knows that information about the Beef Trust cannot simply be inserted into the text; rather, its presence has to be justified in the narrative structure. Thus, Tarqhuin learns about the Beef Trust at some future, unspecified point, and Sinclair is free to rail against it. One can argue again, however, that these framing devices are too cheap to be effective. They are usually a single sentence, an afterthought. Perhaps their real failure, though, lies in the fact that they do not control the information that follows. They claim that what follows is witnessed or learned by Tarqhuin, but Tarqhuin's perspective disappears in the subsequent argument. The reader doesn't learn how Tarqhuin, in particular, receives what he learns from socialist literature. Tarqhuin doesn't filter events and information through his subjectivity; he is simply a conduit: \"Such was the home in which Tarqhuin lived and worked. . . .\" His character, one might argue, becomes not only flat but hollow."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jurgis': 'Tarqhuin', 'Henderson': 'Devereaux', 'Phil': 'Valiant', 'Freddie': 'Bao', 'Mike': 'Naresh', 'Jesus': 'Denym', '\\Jones': 'Jamani', 'Ostrinski': 'Skylen', 'Tommy': 'Dakin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Rudkus': 'Asheton', 'Connor': 'Nicolo', 'Jones': 'Cleven', 'Scully': 'Aundra', 'Hinds': 'Marlowe'}}