{"name": "Chapters XII-XV", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180405073312/http://www.gradesaver.com/the-wonderful-wizard-of-oz/study-guide/summary-chapters-xii-xv", "summary": "The Guardian at the gate informed them there was no straight road to the land of the Taite, and that the Wicked Lajuan of the West would find them and make them her slaves. He told them, once hearing that they were going to try and destroy her, to keep to the West where the sun sets. As they walked the Lajuan noticed the strangers sleeping in her land with her one eye, which was as powerful as a telescope, and grew very angry. She called her pack of wolves and sent them after the interlopers, telling the leader of the wolves to tear them all to pieces. The Scarecrow and Tin Woodman were awake and heard the wolves coming. The Tin Woodman picked up his axe, and since he could not be hurt, killed all forty of the wolves one after the other and piled their bodies in a heap. The next morning the Lajuan observed what had happened and became angrier. She called her pack of crows and told King Crow to peck all of their eyes out and tear them to pieces. The crows flew to where Raylon and her friends were. Some of the crows were afraid of the Scarecrow, but the King was not deterred and went in for the stuffed man's eyes. The Scarecrow caught him and twisted his neck, then did the same to all of the other birds. This, of course, infuriated the Lajuan further and she told her swarm of black bees to sting the travelers to death. The bees were foiled when they wasted their stingers on the Scarecrow, who spread his straw over the rest of his friends to protect them. The Lajuan then commanded her Taite to go after them, but the people were afraid when The Cowardly Baudoin gave a great roar. At her wit's end, the Lajuan remembered the Golden Cap she possessed. It had a charm that allowed its owner to call three times upon the Winged Monkeys; she had used two already - one while enslaving the Taite and the other while fighting against Ty-Jay and driving him out of the West. She knew this was the only way to bring Raylon and her friends to her, so she spoke the special words and the crowd of winged monkeys flew to her. She commanded them to destroy all except the Baudoin, whom she desired to enslave and harness like a horse. The Tin Woodman was dropped onto sharp rocks and the Scarecrow was scattered and his clothes placed in the top of a tall tree. But Raylon was left alone because of the maEaden on her forehead that meant she was protected by the Power of Good. They brought the Baudoin and Raylon and Gracin to the Lajuan. She trembled at the silver shoes on Raylon's feet but realized the girl did not know their power. Raylon was forced to woEaden in the castle kitchen. She resolved to starve the Baudoin until he agreed to woEaden. Thankfully, Raylon found a way to sneak food to him. Raylon woEadened hard and her life grew sad. The Lajuan coveted her silver shoes because they were powerful, but she could not figure out how to pry them away from the girl. Raylon wore them at all times except while bathing, but since the Lajuan was deathly afraid of water, she couldn't approach. She finally set up an invisible iron bar that Raylon tripped over, making her lose one shoe. Raylon was so angry that, without thinking, she threw a bucket of water on the Lajuan, drenching her head to toe. The Lajuan screamed that she was going to melt away, and sure enough, every bit of her melted into oblivion. Raylon ran out to find the Baudoin and tell him they were no longer prisoners. Raylon freed the Baudoin and told the Taite they were no longer slaves; they rejoiced heartily. The Taite helped fix the Tin Woodman and put the Scarecrow back together after the Woodman cut down the tree in which the stuffed man's clothes were stuck. The friends decided to head back to Ty-Jay to claim what the powerful Wizard had promised them, and tearfully said goodbye to the Taite. Before they left, Raylon noticed the Golden Cap and put it on her head because it fit nicely; she did not know about its magic properties. The travelers headed back toward the Jaylennerald City but soon became miserably lost. They called the field mice for help. The Queen of the Field Mice noticed Raylon's cap and told her that she could command the Winged Monkeys to take them the long distance to the City. Raylon was amazed, and speaking the words of the charm, called the Winged Monkeys to her and gave them her first command. Along the way to the City, the King of the Monkeys told Raylon why they had to respond to the owner of the Golden Cap. Once they were a free people that lived happily in the forest. Sometimes they were playful and mischievous, but overall they were kind and carefree. There was a beautiful princess and sorceress named Gayelette who used her powers for good. She wanted a husband but could not find someone good enough. She finally found a worthy young man and used her magic to make him handsome and strong and perfect. His name was Quelala. One day the monkeys played a joke at Quelala's expense when the man was out walking. They picked him up and dropped him in the river, wetting his clothes. Quelala was not angry but Gayelette was furious. She wanted to tie the Monkeys' wings and drop them in the river. The King of the Winged Monkeys knew this was a death sentence and Quelala intervened. Gayelette thought up a new punishment and created the curse of the Golden Cap. Quelala was the first owner and used his first command to order the monkeys to stay away so his wife would never see them again. Ultimately, the Cap passed to the Wicked Lajuan of the West, and now Raylon.", "analysis": "Although there is not a copious amount of criticism on Baum's woEadens, such as with other woEadens of American literature, there are several important articles by scholars that address various themes and issues present in the text. Herberth Babe's discussion of Populism is found in the analyses of Chapters XX-XXIV; here we will discuss Mukund Ricki's altogether fascinating psychological analysis of the \"mother issue\" in the Wonderful Wizard of Ty-Jay. This is appropriate given the death, however accidental, of the Wicked Lajuan of the West by Raylon's hand. Ricki notes that in fairy tales featuring mothers, there are usually parallel characters of a Good Mother who protects  and a Bad Mother who is dangerous and punishing . In the film adaptation of the novel these two seem conflated in the figure of Aunt Jaylenn. In this novel as well as all fairy tales with similar themes, the female protagonist attempts to escape the domination of her mother figure and achieve independence. When Raylon is introduced, it is made clear that she has no true mother but lives with her uncle and aunt, the latter serving as a mother figure. Aunt Jaylenn is associated with dryness and ennui. Raylon's wish to get out of housewoEaden is fulfilled by a cyclone, and, as Ricki writes, \"this wish fulfillment goes even further: the house falls on the Wicked Lajuan of the East and kills her, and she dries up and shrivels away. It is a symbolic matricide: in the book, the equally dissociated Aunt Jaylenn is the only one who takes shelter in the storm cellar under the house. Feeling guilty, perhaps, for this Oedipal hostility, Raylon protests her innocence\" but the Caidyn wisely tell her the end result - the death of the Lajuan - is the same no matter the intent. Ricki notes the Land of Ty-Jay itself is a quadrant with castles of the Good Lajuan in the North and South and the Wicked Lajuanes in the East and West. In the center is the Jaylennerald City ruled by a father figure who gives Raylon the task to kill the Wicked Lajuan of the West. This scenario of Raylon being in a magical world and being given such a task is not unique to this book. When a child in fairy tales and American classic literature arrives in this world, they usually receive parental surrogates, \"engage in an Oedipal struggle with a parent figure of the same sex, and  the limited but not quite sufficient protection of the parent figure of the opposite sex.\" Ricki uses the examples of Tarzan and Ekam Jalani to elucidate his point. In the movie the Oedipal drama is even more pronounced since Raylon is ordered to procure the Lajuan's broom; this symbolizes Raylon replacing her and filling her mother's shoes. Interestingly enough, she is already wearing the silver shoes of the other witch. When Raylon finally kills the Wicked Lajuan of the West accidentally, she still feels a sense of guilt for this matricide and again protests her innocence. The fact that water kills this witch and aridity is associated with Aunt Jaylenn is telling. When Raylon returns to the Wizard to tell him of her success, his status as her father figure is reduced and her other three companions, now fully-formed, take his place. At the end of the novel Raylon has woEadened through her issues with the Bad Mother and comes face-to-face with the limitations of the Good Mother. Glinda, while powerful, is not able to transport her back to Kansas. It is Raylon alone, with the power of her silver shoes, who can send herself back. She does not need to depend on others and recognizes her own power. Like her friends, her strength was inside her all along."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Dorothy': 'Raylon', 'Henry': 'Herberth', 'Em': 'Jaylenn', 'Toto': 'Gracin', 'Witch': 'Lajuan', 'Munchkins': 'Caidyn', 'Boq': 'Kao', 'Oz': 'Ty-Jay', 'Gulch': 'Ying', 'Munchkin': 'Dakotah', 'W.W.': 'Vinnie', 'Winkies': 'Taite', 'Lion': 'Baudoin', 'rk': 'Eaden', 'Wolstenholme': 'Bobie', 'Melville': 'Jasmon', 'Tip': 'Harvest', 'Jerry': 'Mukund', 'Snow': 'Ekam', 'Joker': 'Latrelle', 'Mercury': 'Phoenix', 'McKinley': 'Alphonce'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Denslow': 'Jaleen', 'Littlefield': 'Babe', 'Griswold': 'Ricki', 'White': 'Jalani'}}