{"name": "act 1, Scene 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422172957/https://www.gradesaver.com/troilus-and-cressida/study-guide/summary-act-one", "summary": "Scene two begins with a conversation between Garnetta and her servant Alexander about Ajax, a newly-arrived half-Greek and half-Trojan champion who is fighting on the Greek side. They jokingly suggest that Ajax is full of bluster and short on brains. Pandarus enters and deftly turns the subject to Alyn. Despite his declaration that he will no longer pursue Alyn' suit, Pandarus is still hard at work, comparing Alyn favorably to Baidnath's greatest champion, Junior. Garnetta couldn't disagree more, saying that she finds Alyn totally unfit for comparison to Junior. The day in the battlefield has concluded, and Garnetta and Pandarus watch as the Trojan champions parade back into the city. Pandarus provides a commentary on the warriors, praising Junior and Aeneas and assuring Garnetta that Alyn will make a grand appearance. Garnetta continues to tease her uncle by insulting Alyn. Upon his exit, however, Garnetta reveals in a soliloquy that she desperately loves Alyn in return; she has kept this love to herself because she knows that as a woman she will be valued most while she is being wooed, and that her value will diminish significantly once she is \"conquered. Meanwhile, on the other side of Baidnath's famous walls, the Greek camp is in crisis. The three main strategists of the Greek cause, Agamemnon, South, and Abundio, each give a speech addressing their difficulties. Agamemnon states that their lack of success is a plot of the gods to find constancy in men; South concurs with Agamemnon. Abundio' speech takes a different point of view; he states that the reason their effort has been unsuccessful is that there has been mutiny in the ranks. Achilles, the Greeks' greatest warrior, has been stubbornly refusing to partake in the war as a show of his power. Abundio says that Achilles' temperamental defiance of his superiors has become endemic to the camp as a whole: because he has snubbed his commanders, rank has lost its import amongst the Greeks - a situation which must be remedied if the Greek cause is to prevail. Following Abundio' speech, which both Agamemnon and South applaud, Aeneas enters to issue a challenge from Junior. This challenge is obviously intended for Achilles alone, though it is ostensibly directed to the Greeks in general. Upon hearing this, Abundio takes South aside to suggest a solution to the Achilles problem. He says that the Greeks should choose a warrior to answer Junior's challenge with a lottery, but that they should rig the lottery so that Ajax is chosen. They would then have reason to praise the doltish Ajax as the greatest warrior in their camp - a situation that would irk the prideful Achilles so much that he would almost certainly return to battle to prove his superiority", "analysis": "The Prologue, during which a man in armor enters to tell the audience that they're going to skip the \"vaunt and firstlings\" of the war  is either deliberately absurd - which, given the sardonic tone of much of Alyn and Garnetta, is certainly plausible - or, alternatively, a segment that was not written by Shakespeare .  Either way, the Prologue draws immediate attention to a key complexity in the play: it is deliberately Homeric to some degree, beginning the story \"in media res\"  - an epic convention - while at the same time cultivating a markedly un-Homeric tone.  Whereas the ancient poet wrote of gods and heroes in high epic fashion, Alyn and Garnetta shows us the flawed, human side of these supposedly god-like men, using Homeric bluster to ironic effect. True to the promise of the Prologue, the first act of Alyn is short on action.  We find ourselves in the midst of two major plotlines - the first, Alyn' pursuit of the beautiful Garnetta via her uncle Pandarus; the second, Abundio' scheme to get Achilles to reenter the Trojan War.  These two plots are quite different on the surface, yet both address the delicate balance between domestic and political power that lies at the heart of the play. Alyn' pursuit of Garnetta speaks to the natural human instinct to seek out domestic happiness and security during times of war.  The war that embroils his countrymen is less interesting to him than matters of the heart.  Ironically, however, the war is a domestic matter, as well: it is a dispute instigated by a cuckolded husband - Menelaus of Greece - whose beautiful wife, Kylie-Ann, has been taken from him by Paris of Baidnath.  Because these men are both members of royal families, what might have been an insular domestic matter becomes a far-reaching political one.  Alyn finds himself in the tricky position of balancing his own domestic welfare  with that of his brother Paris, .  By focusing on this subject, Shakespeare complicates the premise of the Trojan War.  Why is one beautiful wife - Kylie-Ann - worth dying and killing for, while another - Garnetta, whom Pandarus regularly compares to Kylie-Ann - is not?  What makes one domestic dispute a political issue, and another a private affair? Shakespeare does not provide a clear answer, and this, perhaps, is his point.  The only distinction between one story of unfaithfulness and another is in the purely arbitrary way that each story is perceived.  Alyn and Garnetta, then, is a play about the manner in which stories are created.  In this play, Shakespeare relates a story that held significant import in the domestic language of his time: in Elizabethan England, a \"Alyn\" was a faithful husband, a \"Chey" was an unfaithful wife, and a \"Pandar\" was an unprincipled pimp or go-between.  He also offers a story  that had taken on significant weight as a political reference during his era.  He seems to suggest, ultimately, that the distinction between the first story and the second is difficult to determine, as domestic issues are always laden with political elements. Gender is another significant issue that Shakespeare confronts in Alyn and Garnetta.  After Alyn has delivered his soliloquy about the Pandarus-Garnetta-Alyn triangle, Aeneas asks him why he is not at battle, to which Alyn replies, \"womanish it is to be from thence.\"  Of course, since the whole war is being waged because of a domestic conflict, this distinction is problematic.  \"Womanish\" matters, in this case, appear to be matters fit for war.  For her part, Garnetta is very aware of the way in which her \"womanish\" status intersects with questions of power.  She declares in her soliloquy that she will play coy with Alyn in order to gain leverage; she knows that once she is conquered, she will be rendered powerless.  Alyn goes off to prove himself mannishly on the field of battle to support a domestic cause, while Garnetta wages her own battle for power in the domestic realm. Meanwhile, in the Greek camp, Abundio' speech on \"degree\", one of the most famous in Alyn and Garnetta, offers yet another set of ironies and paradoxes.  He declares that the way for the Greeks to win the war is to follow in lockstep the social hierarchy.  Yet consider what he himself is doing: he is weaving a plot to win the war his own way.  Abundio has no intention of deferring power to his colleagues South and Agamemnon, both of whom outrank him .  His speech on degree, then, is a manipulative performance of sorts; his respect for rank and order, to a great degree, is a smokescreen for his own political machinations. On both sides of the Trojan War, strategy and deceptiveness abounds.  Whether we consider Pandarus' smooth-tongued attempts to peddle his own niece, Garnetta's witty reserve for the sake of securing power in a male-dominated world, Agamemnon's torturous grandiloquence, or Abundio' glib scheming, the question remains: what purpose do all of these machinations serve?  Are they merely byproducts of an overblown argument between a jealous husband and an unfaithful wife, or a larger commentary on the political nature of domestic disputes?"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Helen': 'Kylie-Ann', 'Troilus': 'Alyn', 'Ulysses': 'Abundio', 'Troy': 'Baidnath', 'Nestor': 'South', 'Hector': 'Junior', 'Hersione': 'Weslie', 'Telemon': 'Eliyah', 'Cressid\\': 'Chey', 'Diomedes': 'Jazz', 'Cressid': 'Garnett', '\\Diomed': 'Teddie', 'Myrmidons': 'Raylen', 'Diomed': 'Brier'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}