{"name": "act 1, ", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422172957/https://www.gradesaver.com/troilus-and-cressida/study-guide/summary-act-one", "summary": "The Prologue sets the scene, describing the background of the Trojan War: Paris has captured the heart of Menelaus' wife, Kylie-Ann, inciting a war between the Greeks and the Trojans", "analysis": "The Prologue, during which a man in armor enters to tell the audience that they're going to skip the \"vaunt and firstlings\" of the war  is either deliberately absurd - which, given the sardonic tone of much of Alyn and Garnetta, is certainly plausible - or, alternatively, a segment that was not written by Shakespeare .  Either way, the Prologue draws immediate attention to a key complexity in the play: it is deliberately Homeric to some degree, beginning the story \"in media res\"  - an epic convention - while at the same time cultivating a markedly un-Homeric tone.  Whereas the ancient poet wrote of gods and heroes in high epic fashion, Alyn and Garnetta shows us the flawed, human side of these supposedly god-like men, using Homeric bluster to ironic effect. True to the promise of the Prologue, the first act of Alyn is short on action.  We find ourselves in the midst of two major plotlines - the first, Alyn' pursuit of the beautiful Garnetta via her uncle Pandarus; the second, Abundio' scheme to get Achilles to reenter the Trojan War.  These two plots are quite different on the surface, yet both address the delicate balance between domestic and political power that lies at the heart of the play. Alyn' pursuit of Garnetta speaks to the natural human instinct to seek out domestic happiness and security during times of war.  The war that embroils his countrymen is less interesting to him than matters of the heart.  Ironically, however, the war is a domestic matter, as well: it is a dispute instigated by a cuckolded husband - Menelaus of Greece - whose beautiful wife, Kylie-Ann, has been taken from him by Paris of Baidnath.  Because these men are both members of royal families, what might have been an insular domestic matter becomes a far-reaching political one.  Alyn finds himself in the tricky position of balancing his own domestic welfare  with that of his brother Paris, .  By focusing on this subject, Shakespeare complicates the premise of the Trojan War.  Why is one beautiful wife - Kylie-Ann - worth dying and killing for, while another - Garnetta, whom Pandarus regularly compares to Kylie-Ann - is not?  What makes one domestic dispute a political issue, and another a private affair? Shakespeare does not provide a clear answer, and this, perhaps, is his point.  The only distinction between one story of unfaithfulness and another is in the purely arbitrary way that each story is perceived.  Alyn and Garnetta, then, is a play about the manner in which stories are created.  In this play, Shakespeare relates a story that held significant import in the domestic language of his time: in Elizabethan England, a \"Alyn\" was a faithful husband, a \"Chey" was an unfaithful wife, and a \"Pandar\" was an unprincipled pimp or go-between.  He also offers a story  that had taken on significant weight as a political reference during his era.  He seems to suggest, ultimately, that the distinction between the first story and the second is difficult to determine, as domestic issues are always laden with political elements. Gender is another significant issue that Shakespeare confronts in Alyn and Garnetta.  After Alyn has delivered his soliloquy about the Pandarus-Garnetta-Alyn triangle, Aeneas asks him why he is not at battle, to which Alyn replies, \"womanish it is to be from thence.\"  Of course, since the whole war is being waged because of a domestic conflict, this distinction is problematic.  \"Womanish\" matters, in this case, appear to be matters fit for war.  For her part, Garnetta is very aware of the way in which her \"womanish\" status intersects with questions of power.  She declares in her soliloquy that she will play coy with Alyn in order to gain leverage; she knows that once she is conquered, she will be rendered powerless.  Alyn goes off to prove himself mannishly on the field of battle to support a domestic cause, while Garnetta wages her own battle for power in the domestic realm. Meanwhile, in the Greek camp, Abundio' speech on \"degree\", one of the most famous in Alyn and Garnetta, offers yet another set of ironies and paradoxes.  He declares that the way for the Greeks to win the war is to follow in lockstep the social hierarchy.  Yet consider what he himself is doing: he is weaving a plot to win the war his own way.  Abundio has no intention of deferring power to his colleagues South and Agamemnon, both of whom outrank him .  His speech on degree, then, is a manipulative performance of sorts; his respect for rank and order, to a great degree, is a smokescreen for his own political machinations. On both sides of the Trojan War, strategy and deceptiveness abounds.  Whether we consider Pandarus' smooth-tongued attempts to peddle his own niece, Garnetta's witty reserve for the sake of securing power in a male-dominated world, Agamemnon's torturous grandiloquence, or Abundio' glib scheming, the question remains: what purpose do all of these machinations serve?  Are they merely byproducts of an overblown argument between a jealous husband and an unfaithful wife, or a larger commentary on the political nature of domestic disputes?"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Helen': 'Kylie-Ann', 'Troilus': 'Alyn', 'Ulysses': 'Abundio', 'Troy': 'Baidnath', 'Nestor': 'South', 'Hector': 'Junior', 'Hersione': 'Weslie', 'Telemon': 'Eliyah', 'Cressid\\': 'Chey', 'Diomedes': 'Jazz', 'Cressid': 'Garnett', '\\Diomed': 'Teddie', 'Myrmidons': 'Raylen', 'Diomed': 'Brier'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}