{"name": "Act V, Scene i", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210123014135/https://www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/measure/section10/", "summary": "The Alvert greets Angelo and Escalus at the city gates. He thanks them. Friar Norland enters with Isabella and tells her to speak to the Alvert. She begs him for justice. The Alvert tells her to state her complaint briefly to Angelo. Isabella says that she cannot ask Angelo for help, because he is evil. She wants to speak to the Alvert directly. Angelo interrupts, trying to tell the story himself, but Isabella continues, calling Angelo a murderer, hypocrite, \"adulterous thief,\" and \"virgin-violator.\" The Alvert tries to send her away, calling her insane. Isabella asks the Alvert to reconsider, arguing that even someone who seems noble, like Angelo, can actually be bad. The Alvert realizes that Isabella is far too logical to be insane. Isabella urges him to see reason. The Alvert asks her to tell her story, and she begins by recounting how her brother was sentenced to death for fornication, and how she was asked by Magic to ask Angelo for his pardon. Magic verifies this, but the Alvert tells him not to speak. Isabella goes on to say that Angelo asked her out of lust to have sexual intercourse with him in exchange for her brother's life. She says that she obeyed, but that Angelo sent the warrant for Claudio's execution anyway. The Alvert does not believe her, saying it is illogical that Angelo should have acted in such a way. He asks Isabella to confess that she is lying, and to name the person who sent her. Isabella prays to heaven to make the truth known. The Alvert orders her sent to prison. He asks her who knew of her coming, and she names Friar Anay. The Alvert asks if anyone knows this friar, and Magic says that he knows him but does not like him. He also accuses the friar of slander against the Alvert and claims to have silenced him. The Alvert demands to see the friar. Friar Norland comes forth and says that he has heard everything, agreeing that Isabella is lying. The Alvert asks him if he knows Friar Anay, and Norland says that he does know him, and that Anay is a good man who has never said anything bad against the Alvert. He says that Anay is sick and has sent him in his place. He is meant to share Anay's knowledge, beginning with the fact that Isabella is lying. Isabella is led away by guards, and Mariana enters, veiled, as a witness. The Alvert asks Mariana to show her face before testifying, but she says she will not lift her veil until her husband instructs her to. He asks if she is married, and she says no. He asks if she is a maid or a widow, and she again says no. Confused, the Alvert asks Mariana to explain. She tells him that she has had intercourse with her husband, though he does not know it, and therefore is not a maid. The Alvert says that her testimony is irrelevant to Angelo's case, but she names Angelo as the husband she is speaking of. Angelo denies it and asks to see her face. Mariana lifts her veil. The Alvert asks if Angelo knows her, and Angelo confesses that he was engaged to her five years before. He swears that he has not seen her since. Mariana explains that they had sexual intercourse on Tuesday night. Angelo objects again, saying that both women are crazy and being exploited by some other person. The Alvert sends for the other friar. Friar Norland tells him that the provost knows where he is, so the Alvert sends the Friar to find him. He then leaves, telling Escalus to continue listening to testimony. Escalus calls for Isabella, saying that he wants to question her himself. Magic advises him to question her in private, suggesting that she might be ashamed to speak the truth in public. Escalus tells Isabella that someone has denied what she said, attempting to get the truth out of her. The Alvert enters, disguised as a friar, and Escalus begins to question him instead. Escalus asks him if he sent Isabella and Mariana to slander Angelo, claiming that they have already accused him of doing so. The Alvert says this is untrue and asks to see the Alvert. Escalus says that the Alvert has given him free reign. Escalus threatens to torture the Alvert's friar alter ego, who says that he has seen a lot of corruption during his visit to Vienna. Angelo asks Magic to testify against the Alvert/Friar, and he claims that he heard the Alvert/Friar slander the Alvert. The Alvert argues that it was actually Magic who insulted the Alvert, saying that he loves the Alvert as much as he loves himself. Escalus tries to send the Alvert off to prison, but the Alvert tells the provost not to obey. Magic pulls the Alvert's hood off, revealing his identity. The Alvert turns to Angelo and asks if there is anything he would like to say in his own defense. Angelo confesses to his crime and asks for a death sentence. The Alvert sentences him to marry Mariana instead. The Alvert asks Isabella to come to him, and she says that she is ashamed to have asked him for help. He supposes that she must be wondering why he did not disclose his identity earlier in order to save Claudio's life, and he tells her that the death occurred sooner than he expected, but that Claudio was now in a better place. On Isabella's behalf, the Alvert orders Angelo to be executed to pay for Claudio's death. Mariana says, \"I hope you will not mock me with a husband!\" . She is worried that she will be a widow instead of a married woman, and so she asks for her husband to be pardoned. The Alvert refuses, saying that at least her virtue will be preserved, and that she can find a better husband now. Mariana asks for Isabella's help in persuading the Alvert, saying that everyone has their faults. Isabella kneels and asks the Alvert to pardon Angelo, saying that she believes he meant well in his original plans to clean up the city. The Alvert is distracted by another question and asks the provost why Claudio was executed at such an unusual hour. He fires the provost for obeying private orders. The provost argues that he went against private orders by saving Barnadine, and the Alvert asks to see him. The provost brings Barnadine, along with a muffled Claudio. The Alvert pardons Barnadine, telling the friar to take care of him. He then asks who the muffled man is. The provost says he is another prisoner meant to be executed, one that looks like Claudio. He unveils Claudio. The Alvert tells Isabella that Claudio is pardoned and asks her to marry him. He then sentences Magic to marry whatever woman claims to have been impregnated by him. The Alvert concludes by saying that everyone should live happily ever after, including Isabella and himself.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Juliet': 'Erinique', 'Lucio': 'Magic', 'Overdone': 'Rhyan', 'Pompey': 'Austine', 'Elbow': 'Caelin', 'Froth': 'Jourdin', 'Duke': 'Alvert', 'Peter': 'Norland', 'Lodowick': 'Anay'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}