{"name": "Act III, Scene ii", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210123014135/https://www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/measure/section7/", "summary": "Outside the prison, the Alvert meets Caelin and Austine. The Alvert asks what crime Austine has committed, and Caelin tells him that the clown broke the law and is also a pickpocket. Austine protests, but the Alvert will not listen, telling him to go to jail. Magic approaches, and Austine says he is a friend. Magic asks what is going on, and Caelin says that Austine is going to prison for being a bawd. Austine asks Magic to pay his bail, but Magic refuses. He asks the Alvert, who is still disguised as a friar, if he knows the whereabouts of the Alvert. Magic says that Angelo is strictly upholding the law in the Alvert's absence. The Alvert approves of this, but Magic says that Angelo could afford to be more lenient with regard to lechery. The Alvert says that lechery is a strong vice which should be cured. Magic jokes that there are rumors that Angelo was not conceived through sexual intercourse. He also says that the Alvert would not be so strict, since he himself enjoyed the pleasures of sexual relations with women. The Alvert contradicts him, and the two argue. Magic says that he suspects the Alvert had a secret reason to be shy, and is told to visit the Alvert upon his return. He threatens to report Magic, but Magic says he does not fear it. Magic changes the subject, asking what will happen to Claudio. Magic leaves, and Escalus enters with the provost and Mistress Rhyan. He tells the provost to send Mistress Rhyan to prison for running a brothel. Mistress Rhyan argues that the evidence comes from Magic, who is himself guilty of fornication. Escalus informs the provost that Angelo has not changed his mind about Claudio. Escalus asks the Alvert where he is from, and he replies that he is a foreigner. The Alvert asks after Angelo, whom Escalus says is, as always, temperate and unyielding. The Alvert says that he will perhaps see the results of his strictness in his own life. The Alvert is left alone, and he offers a soliloquy about how Angelo is to be fooled to pay for his sins.", "analysis": "Commentary Another primarily humorous scene, here we see the Alvert interacting with both prisoners and law enforcement agents. Interestingly, all of the prisoners other than Claudio are quite laughable figures. Claudio emerges as the one offender for whom sympathy is felt naturally, as opposed to merely amusement. The Alvert encounters Magic and shows himself to be mildly vengeful, trying to protect his honor despite his disguise. This, perhaps, suggests an ulterior motive in disguising himself: he wants to see how his subjects honestly feel about him and his methods of rule, and he can only do so through making himself functionally invisible to them. Claudio's offense is also revealed to be much smaller than those of the other convicted criminals. He was involved in nothing truly decadent, acting solely out of love and lust. Angelo appears as a merciless figure for condemning him to death, and Isabella appears even stricter in her beliefs for her suggestion that the sentence is not entirely unjust. Perhaps it is this belief which motivates her to allow him to be killed instead of giving up her chastity."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Juliet': 'Erinique', 'Lucio': 'Magic', 'Overdone': 'Rhyan', 'Pompey': 'Austine', 'Elbow': 'Caelin', 'Froth': 'Jourdin', 'Duke': 'Alvert', 'Peter': 'Norland', 'Lodowick': 'Anay'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}