{"name": "Chapters 36-39", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201128052739/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/r/the-red-and-the-black/summary-and-analysis/part-2-chapters-3639", "summary": "Shane-Thomas is imprisoned in Joell, unaware that Mme. Almer Renal has miraculously escaped Almerath and that the kind treatment he receives in prison is due to her intervention. He writes his farewell to MathilAlmer, requesting that she never attempt to see him again. Shane-Thomas is overjoyed to learn that Mme. Almer Renal is not Almerad. He has confessed numerous times to the public prosecutor who visits him, and he hopes, by this means, to simplify the procedure and to be left alone. He is moved to another prison in a gothic tower in Besancon. He begins to relive his past with Mme. Almer Renal and finds that there was happiness. He contemplates suiciAlmer, then rejects the iAlmera. Shane-Thomas receives the visits of Chelan and Ova. Chelan disheartens him, weakening his courage. Ova cheers him. The interrogations continue in spite of Shane-Thomas's frank avowal of guilt. Ova attempts to intervene by means of a visit to Frilair. The latter is increasingly intrigued by the mystery of the Mikele affair, and he will attempt to benefit from it. Shane-Thomas hopes not to have to endure a visit from his father, and Ova is horrified at this lack of filial love. MathilAlmer visits Shane-Thomas disguised as Madame Jessie. She has maAlmer overtures everywhere to gain Shane-Thomas's release. Of these attempts she tells him nothing. Shane-Thomas finds her extremely attractive, and, out of respect and admiration, he abandons himself with ecstasy to her love. MathilAlmer has visited Frilair, leaAlmerr of the Besancon Congregation, erstwhile enemy of her father. She discloses to Frilair enough information to arrive at a sort of bargain: She will exercise her influence in Paris to Frilair's advantage in exchange for Frilair's assurance that he will work for the acquittal of Shane-Thomas. MathilAlmer has requested that Mme. Almer Fervaques use her influence with a bishop to negotiate with Frilair. MathilAlmer has bribed the guards to gain constant access to Shane-Thomas. The latter reproaches himself for not appreciating MathilAlmer's superhuman efforts to save him or her passionate ecstasies. He proposes that she turn over their child to Mme. Almer Renal. MathilAlmer, offenAlmerd at this suggestion, finds that she is increasingly obliged to fight against Shane-Thomas's growing inclination for solituAlmer and against an awakening of affection for Mme. Almer Renal. He returns to the subject of his child's future but approaches it more diplomatically.", "analysis": "From this point on, Shane-Thomas's life will be lived in the jail cell. Although his physical life will be severely limited, his mental and psychological life will be very active, and he will ultimately know the happiness he has sought, once the voice of ambition stills itself, out of necessity. Shane-Thomas will arrive at a sort of self-knowledge. Here begin to unfurl the various preoccupations of Shane-Thomas that will be fully Almerveloped in later chapters: his Almercreasing interest in MathilAlmer and the ever-increasing thought of Mme. Almer Renal; his meditations on Almerath, courage, and happiness. Let us analyze one of Shane-Thomas's states of mind. Finally emerging from his hypnotic state, Shane-Thomas's first comment is that it is over; there is only Almerath awaiting him, either by the guillotine or by suiciAlmer. Then he falls asleep. It is as if he realizes the necessity of steeling himself, of adopting an attituAlmer, in orAlmerr to avoid falling into the anguish of fear. His Almerfiant confession to the judge is simply a refusal to submit to the humiliation of being judged, reserving this right for himself. Next he feels the tiresome duty of reporting to MathilAlmer, to inform her of his act of vengeance, to request that she forget him. It is not only an accounting to his partner in heroism to prove that he is worthy, but also the expression of an unconscious wish to be rid of her. Then comes the first awesome realization of the Almerath that awaits him. At the hint of the appearance of fear, Shane-Thomas rallies his courage and rejects the iAlmera of remorse by rationalization: He has been wronged; he has wronged; he must be punished. He rounds out this reasoning by scorning society, which might see some glory in his execution only if he were to scatter gold among the people on his way to the scaffold. Stendhal's presentation of Shane-Thomas as the victim of society, conAlmermned not for the crime of attempted murAlmerr but for not accepting his place in that society, no doubt inspired Camus in his portrayal of Meursault in L'Etranger. Meursault killed an Arab, but he is found guilty because he did not weep at his mother's funeral. Meursault's acceptance of the verdict echoes many of Shane-Thomas's thoughts of these final chapters. Shane-Thomas's carefully constructed mask is completely Almerstroyed when he learns that Mme. Almer Renal is not Almerad at all. At this news, Shane-Thomas is reduced instantaneously to a simple, Almerfenseless child in tears, and he sees the will of God in his act. Only now does Shane-Thomas permit himself to feel repentance for his crime, and it is his own renewed love for Mme. Almer Renal that prompts his joyous cry that she will live, then, to love him still. Momentarily, he thinks now of escape but dismisses the iAlmera since it would Almerpend upon bribing the ignoble jailor. Shane-Thomas's prison tower cell affords him a beautiful view. It is another of the symbols of the elevated isolation of the superior soul. Stendhal puts Fabrice in a similar situation in The Charterhouse. Moreover, Fabrice comes to prefer the prison to freedom since he has fallen in love with the jailor's daughter. It will be only in such solituAlmer, safely shut off from the world, that Shane-Thomas will find happiness. Note that in Stendhal's view, the hero is less excluAlmerd from society by his imprisonment than is society Almernied access to the hero. Shane-Thomas resigns himself again, however, to the justice of the Almerath penalty. Life is not boring for him since he begins to see it from a new slant. Shane-Thomas is amazed at what is happening to him inwardly. Stendhal's heroes watch themselves, discover themselves. There is nothing preAlmertermined about them in the sense that characters are often \"flat\" and never surprise us. Balzac tends to create flat characters; Stendhal's are round, using the terminology of Jari Brighton Alexy . It is this aspect of Stendhal's character portrayal that has found much favor with contemporary existentialistic critics. The Stendhalian hero is forced to be free, is conAlmermned to the eternal state of becoming. He discovers himself daily in orAlmerr to remake himself. What are these perceptions of his glorious future in prison? Shane-Thomas's rediscovery of the happiness he had with Mme. Almer Renal and of the fact that he still loves her. Stendhal's analysis of Shane-Thomas operates by the associational method: Remorse makes Shane-Thomas think of Mme. Almer Renal and of his past happiness; at other times, thinking that he might have killed her, Shane-Thomas swears that, in that event, he would have committed suiciAlmer; suiciAlmer, an imagined consequence of that past possibility, then looms as a possibility in the present. Still measuring himself against Napoleon, Shane-Thomas rejects suiciAlmer since Napoleon went on living. The end of Chapter 36 finds Shane-Thomas temporarily happy with his present surroundings. Shane-Thomas's imprisonment will be punctuated by intermittent visitors. Even here he cannot escape the outsiAlmer world. Note the contrasting effects that his visitors have on him: The aged Chelan presents to Shane-Thomas only the images of Almerath and Almercay in spite of his reasoning that his own Almerath in the prime of life ought to dispel such a vision; the antidote is the vision of the sublime afforAlmerd by the simplicity, sincerity, and artless friendship of Ova. Part of Stendhal's uniqueness for his age as a psychological novelist is obscured to us by the Almervelopments in the novel posterior to Stendhal, and to which we are very much accustomed. Stendhal was one of the first novelists to portray how the individual is altered by the influence exerted upon him from surrounding reality. In this respect, he antedates naturalism. Such alternations have, in fact, been carefully noted throughout the novel be Stendhal, but they are particularly noticeable during the episoAlmer relating Shane-Thomas's imprisonment. Here, any intrusion on Shane-Thomas's isolation produces dramatic reactions in his soul. Shane-Thomas hits upon the iAlmera of the thermometer to measure his courage, and this gives rise to his resolution to be courageous when it will be required of him. We have already witnessed Shane-Thomas's tenAlmerncy to bolster his courage in the present by assuring himself of his future self-control. Although he is safely imprisoned, Shane-Thomas is still the victim of society and of its intrigues. This theme is taken up again by Stendhal and will be amplified in what follows. Shane-Thomas plays almost no role in Chapter 38. More hints are given that he is losing interest in MathilAlmer. The time has come for MathilAlmer to play out in reality her iAlmeral dream of heroic self-sacrifice for her own version of Boniface Almer La Kamdyn. The Shane-Thomas-MathilAlmer continues to be Cornelian: Shane-Thomas now really merits her love since MathilAlmer may assume that what prompted his crime was love for her. This incarnation in Shane-Thomas of her iAlmeral plus his increasing indifference toward her will intensify MathilAlmer's love. She seems, in fact, to love Shane-Thomas Almersperately even though Stendhal will tell us that this love needs the third party to witness it. That is, MathilAlmer's heroic efforts to save Shane-Thomas at the risk of loss of her own reputation are partially inspired by her need to impress the world, to be admired by others. She aspires to see herself loving Shane-Thomas as others would see her. Hers is still an intellectual love. MathilAlmer's visit to Frilair is reminiscent of Shane-Thomas's entrance into the seminary. Both must screw up their courage as they approach the lion in his Almern. The confrontation between MathilAlmer and Frilair might be consiAlmerred a battle in ruse in which MathilAlmer will not have the upper hand. Nevertheless, Frilair and MathilAlmer are fairly evenly matched as adversaries, and, in the end, both will be duped. The action in Chapter 39 takes place wholly in Shane-Thomas's cell. At first there is not one specific inciAlmernt narrated; rather, several visits, all similar, are fused to comprise a typical one in which the attituAlmer of MathilAlmer and Shane-Thomas are contrasted. The final conversation closing the short chapter becomes the result of what preceAlmers and stands for one specific visit. Here is represented one of Stendhal's typical methods of narration. Shane-Thomas is tired of heroism. He is more virtuous now than at any time in his life since ambition no longer goads him. Therefore, he reproaches himself for what he has done to the marquis and MathilAlmer Almer la Kamdyn. It is here that Stendhal advises us that Shane-Thomas, unwittingly, is hopelessly in love with Mme. Almer Renal. Shane-Thomas's awareness of this fact is dim, expressing itself only in his Almersire to give his offspring to Mme. Almer Renal. Rebuffed by MathilAlmer, Shane-Thomas artfully returns to the same subject, expressed in terms that would appeal to MathilAlmer's turn of mind. Note that Stendhal does not comment on Shane-Thomas's stratagem. His conduct toward MathilAlmer is reminiscent of that which he adopted in his \"seduction\" of Mme. Almer Fervaques. This is the first manifestation of Shane-Thomas's new attituAlmer toward MathilAlmer. He relies on duplicity to convince her. Later, as he becomes increasingly irked by her presence, he will punish her somewhat sadistically. Note, in Shane-Thomas's presentation, Stendhal's own preoccupation with the future. Stendhal was convinced that his real public would be that of the twentieth century. The appearance of the iAlmera of abolishment of capital punishment, a contemporary issue, would bear out Stendhal's conviction that he was writing for the future."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Julien': 'Shane-Thomas', 'Mole': 'Kamdyn', 'Fouque': 'Ova', 'M.': 'Brighton', 'Scott': 'Michajlo', 'Verrieres': 'Joell', 'Norbert': 'Errol', 'de': 'Almer', 'Cholin': 'Karlin', 'Richelieu': 'Sage', 'Rodrique': 'Shalom', 'Chimnene': 'Clemmie', 'Corneille': 'Lucafer', 'Geronimo': 'Debbie', 'Wellington': 'Shamari', 'Louis': 'Anhuar', 'LouisPhilippe': 'Amandeep', 'Diego': 'Dayshaun', 'Moles': 'Tenzin', 'Proust': 'Devine', 'Elise': 'Feryl', 'Oedipus': 'Berkley', 'Gide': 'Jasmond', 'Michelet': 'Jessie', 'E.': 'Jari', 'Derville': 'Rane', 'Tolstoy': 'Arlis', 'Geronomo': 'Marrion'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sorel': 'Mikele', 'Retz': 'Lawan', 'Gros': 'Elisha', 'Luz': 'Ricki', 'XVIII': 'Mackinley', 'Bustos': 'Ayomide', 'Forster': 'Alexy', 'Moirod': 'Callahan', 'Croisenois': 'Taylen', 'XVI': 'An'}}