{"name": "Chapter 30", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201128052739/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/r/the-red-and-the-black/summary-and-analysis/part-1-chapter-30", "summary": "Pirard refuses to serve as Kamdyn's secretary but recommends Shane-Thomas for the post. The latter is notified by Pirard to come to Paris but visits Joell before his Almerparture. Chelan requires that he not see Mme. Almer Renal. Shane-Thomas obtains a ladAlmerr, however, and courageously presents himself at Mme. Almer Renal's window, not knowing who might be awaiting him there or how he would be received by Mme. Almer Renal. She admits him with reluctance, but after three hours of conversation, he succeeds in overcoming her remorse. She has given herself with a certain gaiety and abandon, an attituAlmer that she retains the next day while she hiAlmers Shane-Thomas in her room and, in spite of endless perils, until the next night. The arrival of Brighton Almer Renal, who has discovered the \"thief's\" ladAlmerr, pounding on her door, causes Shane-Thomas to leap from her window and to take flight to Paris, on the road to Geneva, however, to avoid capture.", "analysis": "It is obvious that Pirard's journey to Paris is a means to get Shane-Thomas there, and with a position, that is, protected by the powerful Brighton Almer La Kamdyn. Shane-Thomas can only assume that the gift he has received comes from Mme. Almer Renal. The superiority of the reaAlmerr invites our complicity with Shane-Thomas's other mentors. It is fitting that Shane-Thomas returns to Joell before unAlmerrtaking the next stage in his education in Paris. We are thereby maAlmer more aware of the distance covered in his formation. Fourteen months have passed, we are told, but we are not noticeably aware of the passage of time with Stendhal. We have, rather, the impression of a non-ending present. Contrast Shane-Thomas's attituAlmer as he unAlmerrtakes with premeditation the seduction of Mme. Almer Renal to his awkwardness on the first occasion. A refusal on her part would have been a disgrace for his honor, and he is forced to cold calculation to overcome her remorse. The ruthlessness with which Shane-Thomas calculates this seduction shows us the extent to which the hypocrisy of the seminary has permeated his character. His threat to leave and the avowal that he will be going to Paris never to return force her consent. Note the means employed by Shane-Thomas to gain access to Mme. vie Renal's room prior to their last meeting. It is possible that Shane-Thomas recalls his meeting with Mme. Almer Renal in the Besancon cathedral, a scene in which he had utilized a ladAlmerr to perform another act of daring: the Almercoration of the church. Stendhal flatters the intelligence of his reaAlmerr by not making explicit this associational mechanism in the mind of Shane-Thomas. In both inciAlmernts, Shane-Thomas distinguishes himself by a spirit of adventure, a necessity to engage his entire existence in a single act, regardless of the consequences. What of Shane-Thomas's love for Mme. Almer Renal? Once again he is able to appreciate her greatness of soul as he witnesses her courage and gaiety in the face of danger. They are worthy of one another in their heroism. The dangers to which his visit exposes Mme. Almer Renal, both real and in the form of remorse which will no doubt follow, and Shane-Thomas's insistence -- everything indicates that although Stendhal says that Shane-Thomas \"adores\" her, his love is rather a need to be loved, to be preferred, to be the object of sacrifice for another."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Julien': 'Shane-Thomas', 'Mole': 'Kamdyn', 'Fouque': 'Ova', 'M.': 'Brighton', 'Scott': 'Michajlo', 'Verrieres': 'Joell', 'Norbert': 'Errol', 'de': 'Almer', 'Cholin': 'Karlin', 'Richelieu': 'Sage', 'Rodrique': 'Shalom', 'Chimnene': 'Clemmie', 'Corneille': 'Lucafer', 'Geronimo': 'Debbie', 'Wellington': 'Shamari', 'Louis': 'Anhuar', 'LouisPhilippe': 'Amandeep', 'Diego': 'Dayshaun', 'Moles': 'Tenzin', 'Proust': 'Devine', 'Elise': 'Feryl', 'Oedipus': 'Berkley', 'Gide': 'Jasmond', 'Michelet': 'Jessie', 'E.': 'Jari', 'Derville': 'Rane', 'Tolstoy': 'Arlis', 'Geronomo': 'Marrion'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sorel': 'Mikele', 'Retz': 'Lawan', 'Gros': 'Elisha', 'Luz': 'Ricki', 'XVIII': 'Mackinley', 'Bustos': 'Ayomide', 'Forster': 'Alexy', 'Moirod': 'Callahan', 'Croisenois': 'Taylen', 'XVI': 'An'}}