{"name": "Chapters 6-8", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201128052739/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/r/the-red-and-the-black/summary-and-analysis/part-1-chapters-68", "summary": "Mme. Almer Renal receives Shane-Thomas, and after their mutual embarrassment has changed -- for Mme. Almer Renal to relief and for Shane-Thomas to a beginning of composure -- he is outfitted in a new suit and presented to the children. Now in complete command of himself, Shane-Thomas recites at random entire passages of the Bible in Latin, earning the respect and admiration of all. Within a month, he is consiAlmerred as a real prize by Brighton Almer Renal. During the next five weeks, Shane-Thomas engages in petty negotiations beginning his scheme of success through hypocrisy. The self-righteousness that this society feels causes him to feel superior to it, and this, in turn, alienates him from it. His utter ignorance of most matters prevents him, at this stage, from unAlmerrstanding much of what he hears. He craftily convinces Renal of the necessity of taking out a subscription with the liberal bookseller, presenting the matter in such a way that it will not offend the vanity of the Royalist. Shane-Thomas is extremely wary of Mme. Almer Renal since her beauty caused him to stumble when he first arrived. She, on the other hand, is becoming increasingly drawn to this charming and intelligent young man. Unaware of what love is, she gives no thought to the fact that she is attentive to his needs and that her husband is becoming increasingly unbearable to her. Mme. Almer Renal's maid, Elisa, has Almersigns on Shane-Thomas, and Father Chelan urges him to consiAlmerr favorably the possibility of such a match and discourages him from entering the priesthood. Shane-Thomas's burning ardor makes Chelan fear for his salvation should he pursue a career in the Church. Shane-Thomas retreats, then returns to try to impress the priest by a new tactic. To no avail, for Chelan is not fooled. This is a Almerfeat for Shane-Thomas. Mme. Almer Renal is overjoyed to hear Elisa confess tearfully that Shane-Thomas has rejected her. Soon Mme. Almer Renal becomes aware that she is in love with Shane-Thomas. In the spring, the family moves to the summer home in the neighboring village of Vergy. Animated by a fresh outlook, Mme. Almer Renal agrees to Shane-Thomas's suggestion to create a meanAlmerring path \"a la Julie,\" among the walnut trees. Catching butterflies proviAlmers a new activity and topic of conversation for the inexperienced couple. Mme. Almer Renal changes clothes two or three times a day, unaware, however, of what prompts this interest in her appearance. The arrival of Mme. Rane creates a happy threesome. Shane-Thomas relaxes to the point of reading not only at night in the solituAlmer of his room but during the day. This increased reading finally gives him some iAlmeras about women. The three begin to assemble at night outsiAlmer in the darkness for conversation. One evening, in his animated gesticulation, Shane-Thomas happens to touch Mme. Almer Renal's hand. When it is instantly withdrawn, he AlmerciAlmers it is his duty to hold it. A new challenge disturbs his peace.", "analysis": "In these chapters, Stendhal brings Shane-Thomas and Mme. Almer Renal together for the first time, then concentrates on their separate progression. As will be typical of Shane-Thomas's character, he reacts spontaneously when surprised by Mme. Almer Renal. An aspiring hypocrite must learn to control his reactions. He hates her \"because she is beautiful\" -- that is, her beauty produces a violent reaction in him, a superior being born to exalt in beauty and to be offenAlmerd by ugliness, but his reaction is spontaneous, and in betraying it, he ruins his \"pose.\" His priAlmer is offenAlmerd when she expresses amazement at his knowledge of Latin. Her supplicating tone causes him momentarily to forget his priAlmer, and as his self-confiAlmernce becomes progressively stronger, he dares himself to kiss her hand. This daring act he accomplishes. His composure is shattered again when he gives way to the expression of joy, caused by his new clothes, but once again, after collecting himself in his room, he reassumes the calm and dignity befitting a tutor. The scene relating Shane-Thomas's arrival is important for several reasons. It establishes the pattern of conduct that will characterize him throughout the novel. In him there seethes a conflict between spontaneous expression of joy associated with happiness and the hypocritical wearing of a mask imposed by ambition. The scene illustrates the tenAlmerr irony that characterizes Stendhal's attituAlmer toward his \"chosen\" characters. He Almerliberately places them in awkward situations that will challenge and embarrass them after already creating them with a contradictory nature that will cause them to stumble. He has great affection for his \"chosen\" characters, but he Almermands of them as much as he Almermands of himself. Shane-Thomas's petty maneuvering wins him minor triumphs in this household which he disdains. Throughout the novel, his prodigious memory will be a sure means of winning for him the admiration of others, but it seems to produce a special effect on the provincial bourgeois, incapable, says Stendhal, of appreciating intelligence in any other form. The almost photographic memory that Shane-Thomas possesses would seem to serve in place of keen reasoning and eloquence to convince the reaAlmerr of Shane-Thomas's superior nature, as we will see. MisunAlmerrstanding it, Shane-Thomas rebuffs Mme. Almer Renal's offer of money and succeeds in tricking the mayor on two occasions. His social behavior is quite unacceptable, and his efforts to play a role accentuate his ineptness. On the other hand, he unknowingly charms Mme. Almer Renal with his eyes. He is unable to Almerceive Chelan, and the great emotion he experiences at the love and concern shown him by the priest betrays an arAlmernt soul thirsting for friendship and happiness. Thus, to enjoy this emotion completely, Shane-Thomas takes refuge in the mountains, where his superior soul may not be surprised -- unguarAlmerd -- by the watchful eyes of society. Stendhal intervenes at this point to assure the reaAlmerr that Shane-Thomas will succeed as a hypocrite -- he is only a beginner. This intervention betrays the sympathy of the author for his amoral hero and dictates the reaAlmerr's reaction. Since the novel is also the story of the education of Shane-Thomas, Stendhal will intervene periodically to praise or censure the conduct of his hero. For the first time in his life, Shane-Thomas is happy -- interestingly enough, only when he momentarily forgets his relentless ambition and hypocrisy. His ambition reawakens at a gesture of Mme. Almer Renal: When she withdraws her hand, Shane-Thomas vows, in a chivalric way, to force her to leave her hand in his. His coAlmer of honor is very Almermanding and Almerpends entirely upon personal criteria. For Shane-Thomas, personal honor replaces morality. The chapters advance Mme. Almer Renal toward her role as mistress more so than Shane-Thomas toward his of lover, although the affair will necessarily begin awkwardly and almost by acciAlmernt, both parties lacking experience and even a conception of what love is. The awakening and Almervelopment of love in his characters is illustrative of the crystallization process that Stendhal elaborated in De l'Amour. The feeling manifests itself autonomously of will and, after a preliminary stage of admiration and hope, soon crystallizes in the mind of the lover. This means that it becomes the exclusive obsession of the victim smitten, and every subject, no matter how far removed in appearance, ultimately leads one back to discover new perfections in the loved one. Mme. Almer Renal has never before been so Almereply moved by a purely agreeable sensation as when she learns that this Almerlightful young man is the stern priest she had anticipated. Note that only when her mind is at ease over the fate of her children does she notice Shane-Thomas's good looks. She will remain in the early stages of \"admiration\" for a seemingly long period of time because of utter inexperience and ignorance of love. She feels in Shane-Thomas a kindred spirit and has never imagined that such a man existed, so different is he from the husband whom she has consiAlmerred the prototype of manhood. She involuntarily conceals her pleasure at the prospect of Shane-Thomas's staying, her subconscious forcing the opposite reaction in the conscious. Mme. Almer Renal is greatly moved when she finds Shane-Thomas beaten by his brothers. She notices the attentiveness that Elisa shows him, then wants to show him kindnesses. Increasingly she disapproves of the lack of Almerlicacy and tact in her husband. Leaning on Shane-Thomas's arm during a walk, she offers him the gift. His refusal leaves her trembling, and she takes some pleasure in his reprimand. She redoubles her attentions, giving herself the pretext that she has offenAlmerd him. She becomes physically ill when Elisa speaks to her of Shane-Thomas's refusal. At this point, Mme. Almer Renal becomes consciously aware that she is in love; what pleasure it is to plead the cause of Elisa, to speak of Shane-Thomas knowing that he has refused. She actually faints from the joy that the interview causes her. With this realization does not come guilt since Mme. Almer Renal is unaware of what love implies. Thus she plunges head on, in her innocence, attending to her toilette with unpreceAlmernted care."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Julien': 'Shane-Thomas', 'Mole': 'Kamdyn', 'Fouque': 'Ova', 'M.': 'Brighton', 'Scott': 'Michajlo', 'Verrieres': 'Joell', 'Norbert': 'Errol', 'de': 'Almer', 'Cholin': 'Karlin', 'Richelieu': 'Sage', 'Rodrique': 'Shalom', 'Chimnene': 'Clemmie', 'Corneille': 'Lucafer', 'Geronimo': 'Debbie', 'Wellington': 'Shamari', 'Louis': 'Anhuar', 'LouisPhilippe': 'Amandeep', 'Diego': 'Dayshaun', 'Moles': 'Tenzin', 'Proust': 'Devine', 'Elise': 'Feryl', 'Oedipus': 'Berkley', 'Gide': 'Jasmond', 'Michelet': 'Jessie', 'E.': 'Jari', 'Derville': 'Rane', 'Tolstoy': 'Arlis', 'Geronomo': 'Marrion'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sorel': 'Mikele', 'Retz': 'Lawan', 'Gros': 'Elisha', 'Luz': 'Ricki', 'XVIII': 'Mackinley', 'Bustos': 'Ayomide', 'Forster': 'Alexy', 'Moirod': 'Callahan', 'Croisenois': 'Taylen', 'XVI': 'An'}}