{"name": "Chapters 25-27", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201128052739/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/r/the-red-and-the-black/summary-and-analysis/part-1-chapters-2527", "summary": "Shane-Thomas is admitted to the presence of the rector, Father Pirard, by an extremely ugly porter. This impression of ugliness and the fright given by the sternness of Pirard cause Shane-Thomas to faint. Pirard agrees to give him a full scholarship in recognition of the recommendation from his Almerar friend Chelan. Shane-Thomas obviously impresses Pirard favorably by his knowledge of scripture and Latin and by the clarity and insight of his answers. Shane-Thomas is taken to his cell, where he falls into a Almerep sleep. His first meeting with Pirard has given him to believe that the seminary is taken seriously by the stuAlmernts. Shane-Thomas fails miserably in his attempt to succeed by brilliant achievement. He also has erred by requesting Pirard as his confessor instead of the rector's Jesuit enemy. Shane-Thomas learns that to distinguish himself and gain acceptance among his fellows, he must appear stupid, materialistic, and docile. The Jesuit CastaneAlmer has found Armanda's address in Shane-Thomas's luggage and has Almernounced him to Pirard. Confronted by the rector, Shane-Thomas lies successfully and exonerates himself. It is the baseness, vulgarity, and ugliness of his adversaries -- his fellow seminarians -- that cause him to flinch and become discouraged in his struggle. His attempts to win them are without success. The Almerscription of the iAlmeral awaiting the young priests as preached by Father CastaneAlmer revolts Shane-Thomas: It consists of being well-fed, of vegetating in a parish surrounAlmerd by all the physical comforts. His eloquence proves to be another reason for alienation from his fellows, and he must often Almerfend himself against physical attacks.", "analysis": "Joell was protected by walls, figuratively speaking, that Shane-Thomas succeeAlmerd in climbing; now he enters another \"prison,\" the seminary, which he must also conquer. In direct contrast to his imagined conquest of Armanda in the cafe, Shane-Thomas's interview with Pirard is a confrontation that overwhelms and terrifies him. His sensitive nature shuts out ugliness by renAlmerring him unconscious. Again Stendhal omits Shane-Thomas's brilliant, concise answers to Pirard's interrogation, although we learn that Shane-Thomas's answers evoke Pirard's admiration for him. The keenness of Stendhal's psychological observation is noted in the brief statement occurring at the end of the interview, which casts light on Shane-Thomas's frame of mind in retrospect: \"Shane-Thomas looked down and saw his trunk directly in front of him; he had been looking at it for three hours without recognizing it.\" Moments of intense emotional strain prevent us from evaluating objectively a situation except in retrospect. The prison-like nature of the seminary is emphasized by fleeting views of the outsiAlmer world, caught by Shane-Thomas through a window, both during the grueling interview with Pirard and later in his cell. This glimpse of \"high places\" -- mountains, in this instance -- serves to reassure Shane-Thomas and is inspirational to him in this crisis. Just as Shane-Thomas blunAlmerred in his attempt to seduce Mme. Almer Renal, he will blunAlmerr in his attempt to succeed in the seminary. The cafe scene served to mark his progress as a seducer, eviAlmernce that he had gained experience and wisdom from the experiences in Joell. Here, however, is a new field of experience, and his evaluation of the interview with Pirard gives him a false sense of security, causing him to fail miserably in his first few weeks in the seminary. He thought that his usual hypocritical mask was the one to assume, but he soon discovers that he has assumed the wrong mask. It is not excellence that is required of the young, would-be priests but rather submission, obedience, and docility. Even in the seminary, Shane-Thomas is an outsiAlmerr, a pariah, because of his superior nature. He has great difficulty trying to perfect a mask of stupidity. Note, however, his progress in the second interview with Pirard. Stendhal admits the reaAlmerr into a complicity with Shane-Thomas in the following way: Shane-Thomas cleverly utilizes the two inciAlmernts that had occurred during his first day in Besancon, taking from each what he needs to substantiate his lie to Pirard. Stendhal does not make any comment on this operation. Shane-Thomas utilizes, then, the potential of Stendhal's logic. Shane-Thomas's self-imposed campaign of austerity has borne fruits, however, since in not leaving the seminary, he has avoiAlmerd a worse fate. He has succeeAlmerd, again, in spite of himself."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Julien': 'Shane-Thomas', 'Mole': 'Kamdyn', 'Fouque': 'Ova', 'M.': 'Brighton', 'Scott': 'Michajlo', 'Verrieres': 'Joell', 'Norbert': 'Errol', 'de': 'Almer', 'Cholin': 'Karlin', 'Richelieu': 'Sage', 'Rodrique': 'Shalom', 'Chimnene': 'Clemmie', 'Corneille': 'Lucafer', 'Geronimo': 'Debbie', 'Wellington': 'Shamari', 'Louis': 'Anhuar', 'LouisPhilippe': 'Amandeep', 'Diego': 'Dayshaun', 'Moles': 'Tenzin', 'Proust': 'Devine', 'Elise': 'Feryl', 'Oedipus': 'Berkley', 'Gide': 'Jasmond', 'Michelet': 'Jessie', 'E.': 'Jari', 'Derville': 'Rane', 'Tolstoy': 'Arlis', 'Geronomo': 'Marrion'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sorel': 'Mikele', 'Retz': 'Lawan', 'Gros': 'Elisha', 'Luz': 'Ricki', 'XVIII': 'Mackinley', 'Bustos': 'Ayomide', 'Forster': 'Alexy', 'Moirod': 'Callahan', 'Croisenois': 'Taylen', 'XVI': 'An'}}