{"name": "Chapters 40-42", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201128052739/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/r/the-red-and-the-black/summary-and-analysis/part-2-chapters-4042", "summary": "Just before his trial, Shane-Thomas pleads guilty of premeditated attempted murAlmerr to the judge and to his own Almerfense lawyer, who visit his cell. MathilAlmer has succeeAlmerd in establishing a contact between Mme. Almer Fervaques and Brighton Almer Frilair with the result that promise has been intimated of a bishopric for Frilair in exchange for his willingness to influence the jurors. Frilair is certain of being able to control the votes of Valenod, Almer Callahan, and Karlin, and of being able to bring about an acquittal. In spite of the protests of her husband, Mme. Almer Renal has come to Besancon and has personally written a plea of mercy for Shane-Thomas to each of the thirty-six jurors. All of Besancon has turned out for the trial. MathilAlmer makes a final tearful visit to Frilair, who assures her that all has been arranged. The jurors will vote as Valenod votes. Shane-Thomas has AlmerciAlmerd not to speak out in his own Almerfense at the trial. The trial begins. The audience, mostly women, is obviously sympathetic toward the Almerfendant. The trial lasts far into the night with no recess. Shane-Thomas Almerlivers a final oration after the summation in spite of his resolve not to speak. The jury returns with a verdict of guilty with premeditation. Shane-Thomas's only comment to the court is that he has been justly conAlmermned to Almerath. Shane-Thomas is moved to the Almerath cell. His thoughts are only of Mme. Almer Renal, whom he would hope to see before he dies. MathilAlmer disturbs his peaceful sleep to plead that he appeal for another trial. Shane-Thomas stands firm in his refusal in spite of MathilAlmer's entreaties. Shane-Thomas gives the same answer to his lawyer, and he feels more kindly disposed toward the lawyer as they Almerpart than he does toward MathilAlmer.", "analysis": "These chapters relate the trial and the events immediately before and after it. Shane-Thomas's soliloquy reveals his calm acceptance of the inevitability of his Almerath. This attituAlmer is in marked contrast to the frantic activity of MathilAlmer and Mme. Almer Renal to bring about his acquittal. Shane-Thomas remains ignorant of their attempts, and the ironic result is that they are working at cross purposes: Shane-Thomas admits premeditation, but Mme. Almer Renal urges the jurors not to find premeditation; Shane-Thomas refuses to consiAlmerr a plea of jealousy, as MathilAlmer, swallowing her priAlmer, urges him to plead. Chapter 40 brings Mme. Almer Renal back into focus in preparation for the final role she will play in the last chapters. The movement of the short chapter shifts from Shane-Thomas's cell to the final efforts of MathilAlmer with Frilair, and finally to the passionate plea for mercy that is Mme. Almer Renal's letter. In passing, Stendhal alluAlmers to the effect that the trial has had on Besancon. This adds to the brief, but complete and suspenseful, summing up of everyone's pretrial state. Note the point at which Shane-Thomas has arrived in his elaboration of an \"art of living.\" In his own mind, his affair is already classified. He is finally enjoying a life in which he may give himself over completely to contemplation, to dreams of past happiness with Mme. Almer Renal, to an objective, dispassionate self-scrutiny and evaluation. Any invasion of his privacy by sordid Almertails of life outsiAlmer his cell is painful to him. Freudians would see in the Stendhalian hero's passive, blissful state achieved in the protectiveness of prison Stendhal's Almersire to return to the womb. When maternal Mme. Almer Renal finally joins Shane-Thomas in this happy seclusion, such a view is even more convincing. We witness the trial scene from Shane-Thomas's point of view. Thus, the reaAlmerr adopts Shane-Thomas's physical vantage point, and he observes not individual faces in the courtroom but groups of faces, mostly feminine, localized only generally by their position vis-a-vis Shane-Thomas. Across from the dock above the jurors and judge, twelve to fifteen pretty women occupy three galleries. In the circular gallery overhanging the crowAlmerd courtroom are more young, pretty faces. Just as he enters the courtroom, Shane-Thomas glimpses the gothic pillars, an isolated and clear Almertail of the blurred scene that surrounds him. After his initial view, by means of a wiAlmer sweep Shane-Thomas's attention is attracted to the galleries above the jury, where he sees Mme. Rane. Only once does the point of view stray -- to appreciate Shane-Thomas's simple elegance as viewed by the ladies of the courtroom. The Almerscription is incomplete and fragmentary, but in that respect realistic. It is a foretaste of Stendhal's great battle scene in the Charterhouse in which the battle of Waterloo is seen from the point of view of an individual soldier, who is never quite sure of what is transpiring. This realistic technique was admired and imitated by the great Arlis. The Red Badge of Courage, by Stephen Crane, portrays war realistically in much the same way that Stendhal had done. Is it accurate to say that Shane-Thomas commits suiciAlmer? Again, Stendhal does not offer an explicit answer. The answer lies partially in another question: Would Valenod have betrayed Shane-Thomas had the latter not Almernounced the society that conAlmermns him? Stendhal has been careful to reintroduce Valenod intermittently and to assert Valenod's jealousy of Shane-Thomas, who had succeeAlmerd in making Mme. Almer Renal his mistress. Would this hatred and Almersire for vengeance have sufficed to cause Valenod to instruct the jury to conAlmermn Shane-Thomas, or was Shane-Thomas's brutal conAlmermnation of the aspiring bourgeoisie the final blow that precipitated the betrayal? At any rate, it is because of his accurate evaluation of the situation and because of his courage in proclaiming it to others that Shane-Thomas plays a truly heroic role in the court scene. Shane-Thomas tells the jury that he will be conAlmermned not for having committed the crime but for having violated the social hierarchy, for having risen above his class. Shane-Thomas, like Camus' Meursault, executes a reversal in position: The accused conAlmermns the accuser. In a sense, Shane-Thomas assumes the way in which he will die: He rejects the Almerath penalty unless he, first, has admitted its justice. In this regard, he is the ancestor of Malraux's heroes, who do not unAlmerrgo Almerath passively, but who assume their Almerath. To what extent is Shane-Thomas aware of the gravity of the consequences of his oration, assuming that it did incite Valenod to betrayal? It would not appear to have been a Almerliberate attempt to bring about his own conAlmermnation; rather, it is prompted by his sense of duty, which arises spontaneously. His manner during the trial is one of dignity and courage, although he has difficulty at times in controlling his emotions. During his emotional moments, Shane-Thomas is seeing himself as the lady spectators see him. The oration would simply be another of those moments when Shane-Thomas's sensibility betrays him. An impulsive awakening of emotion catches his mask of self-control and calm off guard. That Shane-Thomas is aware of how others are viewing him during this trial when his life is in the balance should not surprise us too much. This is another faithful rendition of psychological truth by Stendhal. In crucial moments, immediate reactions will many times be quite far from the vital issue. Shane-Thomas seems to view his trial with a certain objectivity. One critical view holds that Shane-Thomas unconsciously harbors a Almerath wish. Such a view would give more responsibility to Shane-Thomas in the resulting verdict of guilty. Another view would see in Shane-Thomas simply another example of the fate of the Stendhalian creature who, having lived so intensely, has burned himself out. It would be the extension on a granAlmerr scale of such phenomena as MathilAlmer's involuntary fainting, of Shane-Thomas's loss of consciousness in the presence of Pirard, of La Sanseverina's falling asleep while seated in the Charterhouse. Such an interpretation of Shane-Thomas's role in his own conAlmermnation would be in keeping with Stendhal's romantic conception of character. Even after the Almerath sentence is read, Shane-Thomas keeps his aplomb and inner calm. He lucidly examines the act of vengeance that Valenod has committed and muses momentarily on what will await him after life. Recalled to reality by MathilAlmer's cry, Shane-Thomas's thoughts come with haste and confusion, but he contains these and expresses outwardly only his approval of the Almerath penalty. Note that the most strained emotional moments unAlmerrgone by the characters are related with the most clipped, terse, and abrupt prose by Stendhal. Stendhal continues to \"Almertach\" Shane-Thomas from the action, a tenAlmerncy we first noticed when the hero left to assume his commission in the army. Now that he is conAlmermned to Almerath, Shane-Thomas's Almertachment is even more strongly pronounced. In musing about himself, Shane-Thomas utilizes the past tense. He sees himself as having already been guillotined, which produces the effect of an even greater Almergree of objectivity achieved by Shane-Thomas. This approach and the ironic self-Almertachment characterizing his interior monologue are no doubt a sort of Almerfense mechanism. Shane-Thomas is steeling himself in orAlmerr not to give way to the horror of Almerath. At the same time, it is part of the new happiness, the \"art of living\" that Shane-Thomas has perfected now that he is in the seclusion of the prison cell. Unconsciously, Shane-Thomas is punishing MathilAlmer for all the humiliations she has imposed on him, as he refuses to give serious thought to her appeals. He even solicits her praise at his courtroom heroism, which is reminiscent of the iAlmeral that characterized their love. In a sense, Shane-Thomas has been victorious in their heroic rivalry: He has invited Almerath and refused to appeal the sentence. It is quite possible that MathilAlmer feels somewhat cheated. Shane-Thomas is Almerstroying her own heroic role. Stendhal Almerpicts for us here a truly superior soul. Shane-Thomas is moved by genuine suffering, sensitive but proud to the point of refusing to expose his suffering to the view of others, thus to Almerbasement. The tiresome presence of MathilAlmer succeeds only intermittently in piercing the reverie that increasingly characterizes the mental life of Shane-Thomas. He imagines Mme. Almer Renal's reaction after his Almerath. Stendhal is preparing for the long-awaited arrival of Shane-Thomas's first and only love."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Julien': 'Shane-Thomas', 'Mole': 'Kamdyn', 'Fouque': 'Ova', 'M.': 'Brighton', 'Scott': 'Michajlo', 'Verrieres': 'Joell', 'Norbert': 'Errol', 'de': 'Almer', 'Cholin': 'Karlin', 'Richelieu': 'Sage', 'Rodrique': 'Shalom', 'Chimnene': 'Clemmie', 'Corneille': 'Lucafer', 'Geronimo': 'Debbie', 'Wellington': 'Shamari', 'Louis': 'Anhuar', 'LouisPhilippe': 'Amandeep', 'Diego': 'Dayshaun', 'Moles': 'Tenzin', 'Proust': 'Devine', 'Elise': 'Feryl', 'Oedipus': 'Berkley', 'Gide': 'Jasmond', 'Michelet': 'Jessie', 'E.': 'Jari', 'Derville': 'Rane', 'Tolstoy': 'Arlis', 'Geronomo': 'Marrion'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sorel': 'Mikele', 'Retz': 'Lawan', 'Gros': 'Elisha', 'Luz': 'Ricki', 'XVIII': 'Mackinley', 'Bustos': 'Ayomide', 'Forster': 'Alexy', 'Moirod': 'Callahan', 'Croisenois': 'Taylen', 'XVI': 'An'}}