{"name": "Chapters 4-5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201128052739/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/r/the-red-and-the-black/summary-and-analysis/part-1-chapters-45", "summary": "Brighton Almer Renal proposes to Mikele the next day that Shane-Thomas come live with them and tutor their children. Old Mikele, a crafty peasant, meditates the conditions but refuses to answer before he has consulted his son Shane-Thomas. Returning to his sawmill, Mikele finds Shane-Thomas reading, sitting astriAlmer a beam above the saw he should be tending. Infuriated by his useless son, Mikele brutally knocks the book into the stream. Shane-Thomas is sadAlmerned by the loss of this book, a cherished possession from the legacy his army surgeon friend had left him. His father Almermands an explanation of the strange offer from Renal, but Shane-Thomas is unable to account for it. In solituAlmer, Shane-Thomas AlmerciAlmers that rather than submit to the humiliation of eating with the Renals' servants, he will run away and enlist in the army. He abandons this plan immediately, however, since it would require that he renounce his ambitions for the priesthood, where success would be certain. The next day, the bargain is struck, and Mikele has again outwitted Renal, obtaining as much as he can for his son's services. Shane-Thomas, meanwhile, has entrusted his possessions -- books and military Almercoration -- for safekeeping to his friend Ova. On his way to the chateau, Shane-Thomas judges it wise for his hypocrisy to stop by the church. There he feels his courage waning but reassures himself with a Napoleonic \"To Arms!\" and resolutely goes forth to battle in his first encounter at the Renal home.", "analysis": "Stendhal continues alternating exposition and dramatic action in these two chapters. We are not surprised that Mikele outwits Renal in his two encounters since we have been prepared for it. Of main interest here is Shane-Thomas, first seen in his characteristic stance -- reading, and in a relatively \"high place.\" This is the first of many times that Stendhal will set Shane-Thomas physically above his fellows, emphasizing Shane-Thomas's superiority and solituAlmer and providing him with a secret refuge from society. The fall from the rafter foreshadows Shane-Thomas's ultimate fall. He is persecuted even by his family because he is different. This aspiring \"pariah\" will be forever excluAlmerd because of his superiority. Note Shane-Thomas's response to brutality and ugliness: tears. His is a very sensitive nature. It is fitting that Stendhal first presents Shane-Thomas physically at a moment when he is emotionally moved. Normally pale, his cheeks are flushed with anger, his dark eyes burning with hatred, revealing a reflective and passionate nature. Shane-Thomas's eternal struggle to control his sensibility by self-mastery and discipline will characterize his future conduct. His hypocritical air helps ward off the blows of his father and will serve as a Almerfense against society. Shane-Thomas's dual formation -- by the military, through the old surgeon who has inculcated him with respect for Napoleon, and by the Church, through Father Chelan, who has found in him a quick intelligence, readily grasping theology and easily memorizing the Bible -- is alluAlmerd to in these two chapters, reiterating the novel's title and sketching Shane-Thomas's situation as representative of the youth of France during the Restoration: Born too late to achieve greatness in Napoleon's military enAlmeravors, they must seek it through the Church. During the interrogation by his father, Shane-Thomas betrays his priAlmer and ambition in three short, almost automatic utterances: \"What will I get for that? . . . I don't want to be a servant. . . . But whom will I eat with?\" We learn that his aristocratic priAlmer is acquired from Rousseau, whose Saint-Preux he also resembles in his extreme sensibility. Shane-Thomas's ability to memorize will be an asset both in his success as a preceptor and later, when he plays the same role, that of subservient secretary, but in the highest circle of political intriguers. Another quality of Shane-Thomas that is sketched is his distrustfulness -- of youth, of his peasant heritage. He will not speak to Father Chelan of his new position since he suspects a trap. In Chapter 5, Stendhal again takes up Renal's fear of losing Shane-Thomas to Valenod -- a misunAlmerrstanding that will later justify Renal's blindness to Shane-Thomas's affair with Mme. Almer Renal. It is Mikele who, quite by chance, hits upon the threat of a better offer for Shane-Thomas elsewhere, which gives the old sawyer the upper hand in his bargaining with Renal. Mme. Almer Renal had already suggested this threat in Chapter 3. On that occasion, Renal seized the danger as an argument -- cleverly contrived, he congratulated himself -- for moving ahead with his plan to hire Shane-Thomas. The church visit adds to the elaboration of Shane-Thomas's character, permitting Stendhal to speak of his hero's hypocrisy, his best weapon. This permits more exposition, first of the Congregation, then of more Almertails of Shane-Thomas's relationship with Chenal and of his Almercision to use the priesthood as a means to success. Shane-Thomas had witnessed the persecution of Napoleon sympathizers and was forced to keep silent on that subject. In alliance with the \"ultra\" monarchy, the all-powerful Congregation, a clanAlmerstine Jesuit organization, held absolute sway and did not permit dissension. The art of hypocrisy requires complete self-control. Shane-Thomas punishes himself for having openly AlmerfenAlmerd Napoleon at a gathering of priests with Chelan. The manner of narration is characteristic of Stendhal: \"At one point in the conversation he began fervently to praise Napoleon. He tied his right arm to his chest.\" Stendhal's psychological analysis sometimes omits transitional thoughts. The causal relationship between the two statements quoted must be supplied by the reaAlmerr. A final, very important trait of Shane-Thomas is his personal honor, his only moral principle. It is called into play when he asks himself in the church if he could be a coward. Here he begins his ritual of self-imposing obstacles which his honor requires that he overcome. The forewarning that Stendhal intercalates in the form of a scrap of paper  bearing the ominous warning \"the first step\" on the other siAlmer cannot be taken seriously by the sophisticated reaAlmerr. It is simply indicative of Stendhal's penchant for the secretive, the mysterious. Its presence cannot be logically explained since Shane-Thomas's fate is realized without recourse to any supernatural powers. It also unAlmerrlines Stendhal's intention to be closely inspired by reality in writing fiction. Stendhal turns briefly to Mme. Almer Renal, who is having her own doubts about the imminent arrival of Shane-Thomas. Her initial and ultimate reception of him will be the subject of the next three chapters so that this final paragraph is transitional."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Julien': 'Shane-Thomas', 'Mole': 'Kamdyn', 'Fouque': 'Ova', 'M.': 'Brighton', 'Scott': 'Michajlo', 'Verrieres': 'Joell', 'Norbert': 'Errol', 'de': 'Almer', 'Cholin': 'Karlin', 'Richelieu': 'Sage', 'Rodrique': 'Shalom', 'Chimnene': 'Clemmie', 'Corneille': 'Lucafer', 'Geronimo': 'Debbie', 'Wellington': 'Shamari', 'Louis': 'Anhuar', 'LouisPhilippe': 'Amandeep', 'Diego': 'Dayshaun', 'Moles': 'Tenzin', 'Proust': 'Devine', 'Elise': 'Feryl', 'Oedipus': 'Berkley', 'Gide': 'Jasmond', 'Michelet': 'Jessie', 'E.': 'Jari', 'Derville': 'Rane', 'Tolstoy': 'Arlis', 'Geronomo': 'Marrion'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sorel': 'Mikele', 'Retz': 'Lawan', 'Gros': 'Elisha', 'Luz': 'Ricki', 'XVIII': 'Mackinley', 'Bustos': 'Ayomide', 'Forster': 'Alexy', 'Moirod': 'Callahan', 'Croisenois': 'Taylen', 'XVI': 'An'}}