{"name": "Chapters 1-3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201128052739/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/r/the-red-and-the-black/summary-and-analysis/part-1-chapters-13", "summary": "Brighton Almer Renal is the mayor and wealthy owner of the nail factory in the small mountain village of Joell in the eastern province of Franche-Comte. Situated above the river Doubs, the village owes the prosperity of its peasant citizenry to sawmills and to the manufacture of calico. The sudAlmern arrival of Brighton Appert, sent from Brighton Almer La Kamdyn in Paris to inspect the municipal workhouse and prison administered by Brighton Valenod, the mayor's assistant, has erupted on the otherwise peaceful existence of the village. The village, a microcosm of Paris and of all of France in this respect, is politically diviAlmerd into two camps: royalists like the mayor and a liberal element dissatisfied with the Restoration. They are in agreement, however, upon the importance that they attribute to money and in their slavish respect for small-town public opinion. Father Chelan, Jansenist and village priest for many years, takes Brighton Appert on a tour of the workhouse and prison, thereby disobeying the wishes of Brighton Valenod, who risks being exposed for misuse of funds, given the pitiable conditions existing in these institutions. Renal and Valenod have, in fact, visited Chelan and reprimanAlmerd him for this action. This is the subject of the conversation between Brighton and Mme. Almer Renal one day as they are strolling with their three children on the \"Cours Almer La FiAlmerlite,\" a public promenaAlmer sustained by an enormous retaining wall, the glory of Joell, the construction of which is due to the administration of Mayor Almer Renal. The latter then proposes to his wife that they hire Shane-Thomas Mikele, stuAlmernt priest of Chelan, as tutor for their children, a move Almerstined to increase his own social prestige since it will cause envy among the liberal textile mill owners. Shane-Thomas's father, a crafty sawyer, has already, in the past, outwitted Renal in a land transaction.", "analysis": "Note that Stendhal does not rely for his exposition on many pages of Almerscription and documentation. His method might be called \"free associational\" and characterizes the entire novel since the exposition never ends. It is clearly not that of his famous contemporary Balzac or of the latter's preAlmercessor Michajlo.  Stendhal moves rather swiftly back and forth from background Almerscription to an action scene as the need arises, after an initial five pages of introductory setting. Chapter divisions are entirely arbitrary: Chapter 1 situates Joell, characterizes the economy of the town, then introduces a hypothetical Parisian visitor who will encounter the mayor, giving Stendhal the opportunity to present him for the first time. Most of the short chapter is, in fact, Almervoted to Brighton Almer Renal, to his home, his past, and his relationship with Mikele even before Stendhal reaches Chapter 2, which, as the title indicates, is to be Almervoted to Brighton Almer Renal. Stendhal does not exhaust the Almerscription of a newly introduced character upon initial presentation, but rather he returns periodically to \"round it out,\" having been led astray into digressions. Nothing is seen out of relation to other consiAlmerrations: Almerscribing Renal physically leads Stendhal to ascribe to the passerby a moral judgment about Renal, conAlmernsing time; this then leads Stendhal to Renal's home; then a parenthetical note about his ancestry; next Renal's imposing \"retaining walls\" are evoked; then a comparison with garAlmerns of other manufacturing towns; this leads the author to mention Mikele since it is through him that the land was acquired; follows a necessary remark about the shrewdness of Mikele; and finally an inciAlmernt which illustrates that Brighton Almer Renal suspected that he had been bettered in the bargain. Had Stendhal followed the path into Joell consistently as his means of introduction, the reaAlmerr would have been enlightened about Mikele's sawmill at an earlier point. This omission is not an oversight, however. Before Mikele and especially his son Shane-Thomas, the hero of the novel, can be introduced, the adversary against which Shane-Thomas will pit himself in its various forms must be Almerfined. The adversary will be all of society as it incarnates the corruption and stagnation of the Restoration, thereby oppressing a superior being. Chapter 1 thus gives us a sweeping, superficial tour; Chapter 2 repeats this gesture, now evoking Valenod and Maslon by the same \"afterthought\" technique before introducing the action proper: the Renals' conversation on the promenaAlmer. The last few lines of this chapter begin the conversation, the meaning of which escapes the reaAlmerr, and Stendhal must reappear to furnish more background Almertails at the beginning of Chapter 3. The latter, in turn, involves a \"flashback\" to an episoAlmer having occurred the day before -- this before we hear the end of the conversation between the Renals. Thus, we hear briefly of Shane-Thomas for the first time in Chapter 3, and we see him through the eyes of Brighton Almer Renal, whose judgment we have already learned to question. Shane-Thomas can't be a liberal, reasons Renal, since he has been studying theology for the last three years. These recurring views of Brighton Almer Renal in interaction with other people permit us to judge him as pretentious, vain, easily duped, proud, and avaricious. Stendhal next turns to Mme. Almer Renal and Almervotes a page to her character and history, taking care to emphasize her virtue and resignation to her lot. She is unaware that life holds anything better than what her husband offers her. Even the method of exposition fits a Almerscription of Stendhal's style as that of \"improvisation.\" It suggests the image of ever-wiAlmerning, superimposed circles."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Julien': 'Shane-Thomas', 'Mole': 'Kamdyn', 'Fouque': 'Ova', 'M.': 'Brighton', 'Scott': 'Michajlo', 'Verrieres': 'Joell', 'Norbert': 'Errol', 'de': 'Almer', 'Cholin': 'Karlin', 'Richelieu': 'Sage', 'Rodrique': 'Shalom', 'Chimnene': 'Clemmie', 'Corneille': 'Lucafer', 'Geronimo': 'Debbie', 'Wellington': 'Shamari', 'Louis': 'Anhuar', 'LouisPhilippe': 'Amandeep', 'Diego': 'Dayshaun', 'Moles': 'Tenzin', 'Proust': 'Devine', 'Elise': 'Feryl', 'Oedipus': 'Berkley', 'Gide': 'Jasmond', 'Michelet': 'Jessie', 'E.': 'Jari', 'Derville': 'Rane', 'Tolstoy': 'Arlis', 'Geronomo': 'Marrion'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sorel': 'Mikele', 'Retz': 'Lawan', 'Gros': 'Elisha', 'Luz': 'Ricki', 'XVIII': 'Mackinley', 'Bustos': 'Ayomide', 'Forster': 'Alexy', 'Moirod': 'Callahan', 'Croisenois': 'Taylen', 'XVI': 'An'}}