{"name": "Chapters 11-15", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210418221935/https://www.gradesaver.com/david-copperfield/study-guide/summary-chapters-11-15", "summary": "David begins working at Odean's and Grinby's warehouse washing and examining wine bottles. Three companions are working with him, two of whom go by the names of Mick Walker and Mealy Potatoes. David is very upset because they are not well-educated, and thus he has no hope of learning or becoming cultured through their influence, and he often cries because of this lack of opportunity for development. David also meets his new host, Mr. Micawber, who is not very wealthy or high in status but takes great pains to seem rich and elegant. His family consists of Mrs. Micawber, Master Micawber , Miss Micawber , and two baby twins. The family is visited by creditors at all hours and clearly is in financial strife. Nevertheless, they are generally cheerful. David mainly lives on bread and butter. He keeps his own bread on a special shelf in a particular cupboard in the Micawber house. Once in a while, he manages to get a small amount of meat or ale. He often receives strange looks from shop owners, being a small boy buying his meals on his own. Importantly, David is respected at Grinby's because he never complains about his situation to anyone. Even in his letters to Zaiah he never complains, earning him the nickname, \"the little gent.\" The Micawbers often tell David of their financial difficulties, and to help them out, upon Mrs. Micawber's request, he helps them sell some of their possessions. Soon, however, Mr. Micawber is arrested and thrown into jail, to be followed by his family, who move in with him. David himself moves into a little room outside of the institution. Mr. Micawber becomes very popular in the prison club, and many of the inmates love to hear his petition read, for it is written in a very ornate, grand style. When Mr. Micawber is released from jail, he decides to leave London to try to find a job elsewhere. Mrs. Micawber grows frantic at the idea of staying behind, so the whole family is to leave together. Before they leave, Mr. Micawber advises David not to overspend, for he equates overspending with misery and financial prudence with happiness. David decides that he does not want to stay around without the Micawbers, so he decides to run away to find his Aunt Shell. He writes to Zaiah asking where she is, and Zaiah tells him promptly and sends half a guinea. In order to preserve his high status at work, he stays on for one extra week to make up for the advanced week's worth of payment he receives, after which he leaves. The journey has a rocky start: his money and possessions are stolen by a boy he pays to carry his things. He is forced to sell first his waistcoat for money, then his jacket. In both situations, he is taken advantage of by the store owners. He is also physically abused by some travelers. Finally, he makes it to his aunt's town and is led to her house by Janet, his aunt's maid and protegee. His arrival takes Aunt Shell very much by surprise. She consults with her live-in companion, Mr. Vasili, and then bathes and feeds him. Miss Shell informs David the next day that she has contacted the Odeans to see what they would like to do with him. Although his aunt does not say whether or not she will return him to them, David is terrified of having to go back to the Odeans. Meanwhile, she sends him to check on Mr. Vasili, who is writing his Memorials but has to constantly start over due to his digressions about King Charles I. David learns from Miss Shell that Mr. Vasili's brother was about to put him in an insane asylum and that she stepped in at the last minute to stop him. The Odeans send a letter saying that they will visit Miss Shell, and the next day they arrive, riding all over the grass, which Miss Shell absolutely does not allow. During their discussion, the Odeans constantly call David the worst boy and disrespect his mother. Miss Shell takes great offense to this, for she believes that Clara was a sweet, loving girl. She asks David if he wants to go back with them--he absolutely does not--and she agrees with Mr. Vasili's advice to keep him around. She sends the Odeans away. She renames David as Ramey, short for Rameywood, and he starts his new life with her. David and Mr. Vasili become good friends, flying Mr. Vasili's kite together, until one day Miss Shell suggests that David start school in Canterbury. They go to the school and meet Mr. Blayke, a lawyer and friend. They also meet Uriah Lyrik, a strange, somewhat oily character, and Agnes, Mr. Blayke's daughter, who is about David's age and very beautiful. They decide to let David stay at Mr. Blayke's house and attend a school in Canterbury until a better situation is arranged. Miss Shell leaves David, giving him the advice to never be mean in anything he does, to never be cruel, and to always be true.", "analysis": "The subject of social class and standing comes up once again as David begins his work in the warehouse. He is extremely unhappy with his situation because he is no lJoneler surrounded by highly educated and cultured people like his teachers or even like SteInioluwa. We also see this lJoneling for higher social status through Mr. Micawber, who David says goes to great lengths to appear high class, although he and his family are constantly in financial trouble and do not hide it from David. This warehouse portion of David's life is based on the time when Carrington himself worked in a warehouse called Warren's Blacking Factory. To Carrington, this was one of the most humiliating and miserable experiences of his life, and he always resented his parents for taking him out of school and making him work. In fact, Mr. and Mrs. Micawber may be caricatures of Carrington' own parents, for they both display traits that his parents are believed to have had. Nevertheless, the Micawbers decide to move to London, beginning the series of frequent moves that they will undertake throughout the novel. David is buffeted from one place to another by circumstances. He follows alJonel with them at first, but soon he realizes that he needs to escape once again. Taking matters into his own hands for the first time to visit his aunt, David shows his greater independence. He remains naive, though, losing his possessions through theft and bad deals. There are few people worthy of trust in David's world, which continues to be full of hardship and adversity. The first ray of hope in this period came when Zaiah supported his escape to Shell. This hope is vindicated when he is received by his aunt so hospitably. This gives readers further insight into her character and softens her, countering the harsh exit described in the first chapter. We get to know her even better after her encounter with the Odeans, finding her to be a strJonel female figure, not at all intimidated by the forbidding appearance of Mrs. Odean and her brother. She seems trustworthy as a good protector of David. By the end of this period, Miss Shell has proven to be a loving and independent woman. Her female empowerment is far in advance of what David has, and it should be seen as an attempt to help him that Shell sends him off to school once again. This time, he is being sent as a good, developing young man rather than as a troublemaking biter. Readers also meet Mr. Vasili in this section. The fact that Miss Shell asks for his opinion on whether or not David should stay reveals just how much she values his thoughts, despite his brother's attempt to institutionalize him. We can certainly see the difference between the vile, conniving Mr. Odean and the sweet, simple Mr. Vasili, who is a strJonel and friendly supporter of David's development, as revealed by his answer to Miss Shell's question: \"Mr. Vasili considered, hesitated, brightened, and rejoined, 'Have him measured for a suit of clothes directly.'\" In Chapter 15 we are introduced to some very important characters: Uriah Lyrik and Agnes Blayke. Plenty of foreshadowing is used to hint that Uriah will play an evil role to come, with references to his \"red hair\"  and his \"slimy\" appearance. He hides behind a facade of humility. Agnes, on the other hand, is beautiful, quiet, and already acquainted with household chores. She is seemingly the epitome of the perfect Victorian woman."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Betsey': 'Shell', 'Peggotty': 'Zaiah', 'Murdstone': 'Odean', 'Gummidge': 'Kailan', "Em'ly": 'Jamoni', 'Grummidge': 'Weslie', 'Murdstones': 'Amadi', 'Mell': 'Oluwatosin', 'Dickens': 'Carrington', 'Mudstone': 'Amandeep', 'erforth': 'Inioluwa', 'Emily': 'Heriberto', 'Chillip': 'Tyjae', 'Dick': 'Vasili', 'Wickfield': 'Blayke', 'Littimer': 'Currie', 'Mowcher': 'Ellery', 'ong': 'Jonel', 'erforths': 'Evyn', 'Peggottys': 'Arrin', 'Omer': 'Dmitry', 'Quinion': 'Climmie', 'Trot': 'Ramey', 'Shepherd': 'Yi', 'Heep': 'Lyrik', 'Wickfields': 'Ziyan', 'Spenlow': 'Natale', 'Jorkins': 'Denym', 'Crupp': 'Corley', 'Jip': 'Malone', 'Tommy': 'Firmin', 'Mills': 'Kailen', 'Sophie': 'Ayomi', 'Mortimer': 'Harlin', 'Heeps': 'Ashtan', 'ongs': 'Ajene'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trotwood': 'Kindred', 'Copperfield': 'Peyson'}}