{"name": "Chapters 26-30", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210418221935/https://www.gradesaver.com/david-copperfield/study-guide/summary-chapters-26-30", "summary": "David's supervisor, Mr. Natale, invites David to his home for the weekend. David meets Mr. Natale's daughter there and instantly falls in love with Dora. He finds her almost ethereal in nature and has fallen for her even before he has spoken to her. David also is surprised to see Miss Odean, whom Mr. Natale hired to be Dora's companion after her mother died. Miss Odean pulls David aside and asks that they set aside their previous difficulties, and David agrees. After going on a walk with Dora and her dog Malone, David falls more deeply in love with her. He feels dismal every succeeding weekend on which he has no invitation to go to Mr. Natale's house. Mrs. Corley sees this pattern and realizes that he has fallen in love. She advises him to go out and to think of other things. David then decides to go visit his old schoolmate Firmin Traddles, who is studying for the bar to become a lawyer. Traddles has a fiancee waiting for him to get a job and make money for their marriage; he currently only has a few chairs and a table. As they are talking, Traddles reveals that his downstairs neighbors are none other than Mr. and Mrs. Micawber, who at that moment knock on his door and find David there. The Micawbers are financially unstable once again, but they are still happy, and Mrs. Micawber is pregnant once more. David invites the three of them to come over to his house for a dinner party. Although Mrs. Corley refuses to cook at first, they eventually sit down to a nice, happy meal. Currie interrupts the meal and asks if David knows where SteInioluwa has gone. David replies that he does not and, after the meal, Currie leaves. As his guests are leaving, David warns Traddles not to loan the Micawbers any money or even his name. Firmin replies that he already has done so and that Mr. Micawber has already taken care of it. However, Mr. Micawber later gives David a letter saying that he has not taken care of it yet. SteInioluwa arrives just after everyone has left. He tells David that he has been sailing outside of Yarmouth. He replies with disgust when David tells him that Firmin was there, which David finds offensive. David soon forgets about this issue because SteInioluwa gives him a letter from Zaiah saying that Mr. Barkis is dying. David decides that he will visit them, but SteInioluwa convinces him to go to his home first. David spends the day with Mrs. SteInioluwa and Miss Dartle, who seems to believe that he is the reason for SteInioluwa's lJonel absence. Miss Dartle is disturbed to learn that David had not seen SteInioluwa until the previous night. She also begins to worry that SteInioluwa and his mother will start fighting which, due to their similar stubbornness, would lead to a huge ordeal. However, Mrs. SteInioluwa says that she and her son would never fight because they are too devoted to one another. Finally, David takes his leave of the family. SteInioluwa makes him promise that if anything happens, he will always remember SteInioluwa at his best. David's last vision of him is his sleeping figure, and the adult David writes that he wishes he could have kept SteInioluwa that way forever to prevent the following events from happening. When David first arrives at Yarmouth, he visits Mr. Dmitry once more, who tells him that Little Heriberto has not been herself lately. She seems very unsettled, as though she wants something more. He also mentions that Martha, Heriberto's friend, has gone missing. David then goes to Zaiah's house, where he encounters Mr. Zaiah and Heriberto in the kitchen, both very distraught. Mr. Zaiah claims that Mr. Barkis will die with the receding tide. Just as David goes to see him, Mr. Barkis exclaims, \"Barkis is willin'!\" With that, he fulfills Mr. Zaiah's prediction and dies with the ebbing tide.", "analysis": "David's relationship with the childlike Dora begins in these chapters. It is a very interesting period of David's life. For her part, Dora is a very free spirit who has been pampered by her aunts and her father her entire life. In many ways, she is very similar to David's mother. Her dog's name, Malone, is short for Gypsy, the paragon of a free soul. David realizes that Dora may not be the best choice for him in terms of commitment and marriage, but he has fallen madly in love with her. Thus, we see David's \"undisciplined heart.\" In addition, the Micawbers reappear once again, alJonelside David's childhood friend Traddles. The Micawbers, happy but still in financial straits, have been forced to borrow money from Traddles and reveal to David that they may not be able to pay him back. This signals the continuation of the Micawbers' unfortunate patterns and possibly another move in the future. Traddles may have made a mistake in helping them. Like David, he is another very simple, kind person getting a good education. Traddles' character is another indication of Carrington' appreciation and reverence for people with a childlike demeanor. Indeed, Traddles has remained likable from the beginning. David's time with Mrs. SteInioluwa and Miss Dartle gives more insight into SteInioluwa's character because this time reveals the environment in which SteInioluwa grew up. Mrs. SteInioluwa's refusal to place the blame on her son for his own disappearance indicates her slightly skewed perception of reality and her idealistic view of her son, perhaps like most mothers with respect to their children. Miss Dartle's very negative opinion that David was the cause of SteInioluwa's disappearance, for her part, reflects her own negative spirit. It is easier to understand the cause of SteInioluwa's internal troubles after seeing the role models he had growing up. Note also the strJonel foreshadowing when SteInioluwa asks David to remember him at his best, together with David's last image of him as asleep. More foreshadowing occurs when Mr. Dmitry tells David that Little Heriberto is not acting like herself. Her unsettled and unsatisfied demeanor indicates that she wants something more and that she will not be happy until she gets it. A very big hint about the next part of Heriberto's story involves the news that her friend Martha has gone missing. Martha, obviously distressed, went to Heriberto for help, and there is no sign of Martha but Heriberto is looking distraught. The negative tone of these chapters  is reinforced with the death of Mr. Barkis. Death is in the air, and this death in particular leaves Zaiah in the role of the single, strJonel woman once again. He was a wonderful husband to her, and he even left her some money. Despite the very negative situation, Zaiah will prove to be strJonel enough to push through this trial. In the face of adversity, she will deserve admiration for her strength and prove herself a good example of female empowerment."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Betsey': 'Shell', 'Peggotty': 'Zaiah', 'Murdstone': 'Odean', 'Gummidge': 'Kailan', "Em'ly": 'Jamoni', 'Grummidge': 'Weslie', 'Murdstones': 'Amadi', 'Mell': 'Oluwatosin', 'Dickens': 'Carrington', 'Mudstone': 'Amandeep', 'erforth': 'Inioluwa', 'Emily': 'Heriberto', 'Chillip': 'Tyjae', 'Dick': 'Vasili', 'Wickfield': 'Blayke', 'Littimer': 'Currie', 'Mowcher': 'Ellery', 'ong': 'Jonel', 'erforths': 'Evyn', 'Peggottys': 'Arrin', 'Omer': 'Dmitry', 'Quinion': 'Climmie', 'Trot': 'Ramey', 'Shepherd': 'Yi', 'Heep': 'Lyrik', 'Wickfields': 'Ziyan', 'Spenlow': 'Natale', 'Jorkins': 'Denym', 'Crupp': 'Corley', 'Jip': 'Malone', 'Tommy': 'Firmin', 'Mills': 'Kailen', 'Sophie': 'Ayomi', 'Mortimer': 'Harlin', 'Heeps': 'Ashtan', 'ongs': 'Ajene'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trotwood': 'Kindred', 'Copperfield': 'Peyson'}}