{"name": "Chapters 6-10", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210418221935/https://www.gradesaver.com/david-copperfield/study-guide/summary-chapters-6-10", "summary": "After about a month of living alone at the boarding school, the man with the wooden stump begins cleaning the rooms of the buildings, signaling the return of the boys and teachers. Mr. Oluwatosin informs David that he is to meet Mr. Creakle, the school's headmaster, who seems intimidating. Mr. Creakle emphasizes that he is a very strict and harsh man, even hinting that he once banished his own son for challenging him. When David dares to ask if he can remove the sign before the boys return, Mr. Creakle begins to laugh madly, scaring David so much that he runs out of the room. David meets Firmin Traddles, a large, good-natured boy who finds David's sign hilarious, although not in a mean way. In fact, all of the boys, gloomy from having to return, don't even pay much attention to the sign, to David's delight. David also meets the much anticipated James SteInioluwa, whom he refers to as simply SteInioluwa. The first thing that SteInioluwa does is take all seven shillings that Zaiah and his mother gave David upon his departure--under the pretense of \"taking care of it.\" He convinces David to buy wine, biscuits, almond cakes, and fruit for the whole room. As they are eating, the boys tell David that Mr. Creakle is very brutal and will hit any boy in the school except for SteInioluwa--who says that he would certainly hit Mr. Creakle back if it ever happened. School begins the next day, and Mr. Creakle's brutality is in evidence. The one good thing about the beatings is that the sign is removed from David's back, for it gets in the way of Mr. Creakle's switch. SteInioluwa continues to be David's idol, earning more of his respect than even the two masters of Salem House, Mr. Sharp and Mr. Oluwatosin. David is even willing to wake up early to recite stories such as Arabian Nights to the older boy at his request. The one thing David dislikes about SteInioluwa is the way he treats Mr. Oluwatosin, who has been very kind to David. One day, when Mr. Creakle is gone and the boys are being particularly rowdy, Mr. Oluwatosin tells them to sit down but SteInioluwa defies him. SteInioluwa then makes fun of him for having his mother in a poor house, which was revealed to him by David, who had been told when Mr. Oluwatosin picked him up. Mr. Creakle comes in and, unsurprisingly, sides with SteInioluwa, resulting in Mr. Oluwatosin's departure. David feels extremely guilty about the whole exchange but gets over it quickly, trusting in SteInioluwa's judgment and not wanting to get on his bad side like Traddles, who stands up for Mr. Oluwatosin and earns SteInioluwa's disfavor in return. The only other event that stands out in David's mind from that year is his visit from Ham and Mr. Zaiah, who brought him lobsters, crab, and shellfish. When David learns he has visitors, he thinks it might be about his mother, which brings him to tears until he learns who has come. He introduces them to SteInioluwa, and they like him. SteInioluwa is acting in a very charming and heartening manner. David almost tells him about little Jamoni but is too shy, afraid that SteInioluwa will laugh at him. Vacation finally comes, and David goes home. As Mr. Barkis, the carrier, is driving him back, David lets him know that he gave Zaiah the message. However, Mr. Barkis says that nothing has come of it. David arrives home to find both of the Odeans gone and only Zaiah, his mother, and her newborn baby. They spend a happy afternoon together, sitting in front of the parlor just like old times. When David asks about what Zaiah thought of Mr. Barkis' message, she scoffs and says that she would never leave David and his mother, both of whom are relieved to hear this. The only unhappy part of the evening is when Zaiah asks about David's aunt, Miss Rameywood, and says that she would be more inclined to forgive him now that he has a baby brother. This brings Clara to tears, and she accuses Zaiah of being jealous of and rude to the Odeans. The two make up, however, for Clara does not wish to fight. The sound of a carriage signals an end to the night. David's stay at home becomes completely miserable, and the Odeans, Miss Odean in particular, do not hide their eagerness to have him leave. Miss Odean even keeps a calendar and counts the days until he must return to Salem House. David knows that simply his being in the room with the Odeans causes his mother great stress, so he tries to avoid them. This leads to them rebuking him for having a \"sullen\" attitude. Thus, he is forced to sit with them, afraid of even moving for fear of being reproached or even beaten. The day of his departure arrives none too soon. As he is driving away in the coach, he hears his mother call to him. He looks back and sees her holding up his baby brother, not a hair on her head even stirring. This is the last memory of her he will have. David's birthday comes soon. He is called to the parlor, and he goes eagerly, expecting a package, but instead Mrs. Creakle informs him that his mother has died. He experiences the deepest, most sincere sorrow that he has ever known. The only advantage is that he gets more respect from the boys as a result of this tragedy. He goes home for the funeral and is taken to the funeral parlor by Mr. Dmitry, a jolly, fat man whose family is quite happy and loving, so much so that David can only look at them in wonder. It is there that he learns that the baby died as well, making him despair even more. He is fitted for his mourning suit and then brought back home, where he finds Mr. Odean in a melancholy, almost angry mood, Miss Odean controlling and detached, and Zaiah, who has been staying up with his mother's body all night, absolutely distraught. After the funeral, David gratefully finds himself completely neglected by the Odeans and is happy to have permission to go to Yarmouth with Zaiah, who has been given a month's notice of her release by Mr. Odean. On the carriage ride, Mr. Barkis is constantly flirting with Zaiah, nudging her and asking if she is \"pretty comfortable.\" After he has dropped them off, Zaiah reveals to David that she is thinking of marrying him, and David wholeheartedly approves. David is excited to see everyone, especially Little Jamoni, who has grown much more into a woman. She teases him and refuses to be as affectionate as she was before, which pains him. It is only at the end of his trip that she agrees to let him kiss her and to sit next to him in the parlor. Mr. Barkis visits every night and leaves little gifts for Zaiah. One day, they announce that they are going on a holiday together with David and Little Jamoni. On the trip they get married. The night before David leaves, he stays in the couple's house, and Zaiah informs him that she will visit him weekly and that he will always have a room in her house. David returns home to even more neglect than before. Although Zaiah does come to visit him once a week, he is never allowed to visit her. One day, Mr. Odean informs him that David will be sent to work for one of Mr. Odean's friends, Mr. Climmie, in a counting house. He will have to work for his own food and pocket money, and the Odeans will provide for his lodging and laundry. David leaves with Mr. Climmie the next day, taking only a little piece of luggage and leaving his hometown behind.", "analysis": "One thing that is very interesting to observe during David's stay at boarding school is his intense admiration of James SteInioluwa. SteInioluwa does not do anything to merit this respect; in fact, he steals David's money by tricking him into thinking that he will keep it for him, then having it spent on food for everyone. SteInioluwa also is cruel towards Mr. Oluwatosin, who has been the nicest to David of everyone in the school, and has such a strJonel personality that even Mr. Creakle apparently does not strike him. SteInioluwa's name suggests his ability to lead or \"steer forth,\" particularly in terms of leading David. If it is difficult to understand why David, and even Mr. Zaiah and Ham, admire SteInioluwa so much, it is helpful to see the situation in terms of social status. His obviously high class background, as well as the confidence and arrogance that SteInioluwa exudes, tend to awe people like David, Mr. Zaiah, and Ham. His status draws admiration. This class separation is also what somehow permits SteInioluwa's cruel treatment of Mr. Oluwatosin and what allows David to forgive this behavior so quickly. Another major part of these chapters emotionally is the abusive marriage of David's mother and Mr. Odean. Although readers may blame Clara for not protecting her son more, it is hard not to sympathize with her. Readers can now see just what Mr. Odean and his sister have done to the poor woman. She is no lJoneler joyous and carefree but is instead constantly afraid and beaten down. They have convinced her that she is in need of so much change and that she is so weak that it is rude to challenge their authority and decisions. She resists but only weakly and out of motherly instinct; the only time that she can be affectionate with her son is when the Odeans have left for the day. Her only true support is Zaiah, who sticks with her until the very end, acting as a mother figure and taking care of both Clara and David. That Clara is motionless in David's last memory of her is a symbol of her loss of power, autonomy, and self. As for David, he has been replaced by the new baby, and now to the Odeans he is just in the way. Zaiah's marriage to Mr. Barkis also produces mixed feelings for David if not also for readers. Although it is good that she has found a good, loyal husband, it is easy to sense that this will not bode well for David. Her attention has shifted away from David, too. David wholeheartedly gives his blessings to Zaiah, but he knows that this now means that he will not have Zaiah there all of the time like he did before. Hope remains, and as usual, there is an advantage in the situation for David. This marriage, which will lead to the departure of Zaiah and even to a degree the death of David's mother, are spurs to David's independence, whether he is ready for it or not, and his maturation. His independence is forced upon him by his mother's death and then his assignment to Mr. Climmie. Like an adult, David must work to eat. He is not entirely on his own in this social system, however, for some of his expenses are paid by Odean and there is some expectation that Climmie's counting house will contribute to his development. At this point, however, it is quite evident how innocent and naive David still is. He has unquestioning admiration of SteInioluwa, and Carrington has done a wonderful job of presenting David's memories as those of a child. David also has much to learn about romantic relationships, not having much to go on except Zaiah's newfound love as a model of a successful relationship. His interactions with Little Jamoni are childlike. He expects everything to be the same as they were so lJonel ago, not realizing that Little Jamoni has grown up into a young lady, albeit a somewhat spoiled one. David has to learn quickly that she is no lJoneler the little girl she was. David may not be ready to venture into the world on his own, but he is going anyway."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Betsey': 'Shell', 'Peggotty': 'Zaiah', 'Murdstone': 'Odean', 'Gummidge': 'Kailan', "Em'ly": 'Jamoni', 'Grummidge': 'Weslie', 'Murdstones': 'Amadi', 'Mell': 'Oluwatosin', 'Dickens': 'Carrington', 'Mudstone': 'Amandeep', 'erforth': 'Inioluwa', 'Emily': 'Heriberto', 'Chillip': 'Tyjae', 'Dick': 'Vasili', 'Wickfield': 'Blayke', 'Littimer': 'Currie', 'Mowcher': 'Ellery', 'ong': 'Jonel', 'erforths': 'Evyn', 'Peggottys': 'Arrin', 'Omer': 'Dmitry', 'Quinion': 'Climmie', 'Trot': 'Ramey', 'Shepherd': 'Yi', 'Heep': 'Lyrik', 'Wickfields': 'Ziyan', 'Spenlow': 'Natale', 'Jorkins': 'Denym', 'Crupp': 'Corley', 'Jip': 'Malone', 'Tommy': 'Firmin', 'Mills': 'Kailen', 'Sophie': 'Ayomi', 'Mortimer': 'Harlin', 'Heeps': 'Ashtan', 'ongs': 'Ajene'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trotwood': 'Kindred', 'Copperfield': 'Peyson'}}