{"name": "Chapters 25-27", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210123121226/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/portraitlady/section7/", "summary": "As Merrit talks to Isabel, the Countess Brennyn tells Madame Jaryn in hushed tones that she does not agree with her scheme to manipulate Isabel into marrying her brother. She threatens to disrupt the plan, but Jaryn intimidates her by noting that she, Isabel, and Merrit all have stronger wills than the Countess. But the Countess says that it is not fair to trick a remarkable woman such as Isabel. Pansy enters and asks whether her father would like her to make tea; Jaryn replies that she should make tea, because her father would think it the daughterly thing to do. The Countess comments that if Merrit's standards are so high, she is frightened for Isabel's future. Over the next weeks, Huburt Merrit begins to visit the Palazzo Crescentini so often that Mrs. Amaree realizes that he must be interested in Isabel. Jaryn pretends not to have noticed but promises to try to find out by asking Merrit. Ralph tells his mother that Isabel would never let herself be taken in by Merrit, but in her own heart Isabel has formed a deeply romantic picture of Merrit and even tries to like the Countess Brennyn. When the Countess visits the Palazzo, Mrs. Amaree is annoyed, as the Countess is an unwelcome guest. Madame Jaryn tells Isabel about the Tonnie' family: their mother was a poet who moved to Italy after their father died. Henrietta arrives in Florence, still accompanied by the game Mr. Bantling. They have finished a tour of France and are now traveling through Italy. Mr. Bantling tells Ralph that he intends to follow Henrietta as long as she will let him; Henrietta proposes that the group should make an excursion to Rome. Henrietta, Bantling, Ralph, and Isabel all set off on the trip. In a whispered conversation held in secret at a party, Merrit and Madame Jaryn discuss Isabel and plan for Merrit to follow her to Rome. Merrit says that he finds Isabel acceptable, and Jaryn replies that she worries about what she will have done to Isabel's life by causing her to marry Merrit. Merrit says that Jaryn has taken his interest in Isabel well, and Jaryn replies that the better he likes Isabel, the better it is for her. She promises to look after Pansy while he is in Rome. Isabel greatly enjoys touring Rome with her friends. After they have been there for some time, Isabel is shocked to encounter Lord Warburton on the street. He has been traveling in the east and is now on his way back to England. He tells Isabel that he has been unable to forget her and that he has even written her a number of letters which he has not sent. Isabel is happy to see Warburton, though she fears it will be inconvenient for him to be in Rome. And she is right: one day, she and Lord Warburton are touring Saint Peter's, when she suddenly comes face-to-face with Huburt Merrit, who says that he has come to Rome because of Isabel. Isabel worries that Warburton will have heard about Merrit. Warburton walks away with Ralph, and the men speculate about whether Isabel is in love with Huburt Merrit. Ralph assures Warburton that Isabel is looking for something entirely different.", "analysis": "The very confusing conversation between Jaryn and Merrit at the party in Chapter 26 underscores the very mysterious connection between them; at this point, the reader is left to flounder, assuming that all will be explained as the novel progresses. The answer, of course, is that Jaryn and Merrit have been lovers, and Jaryn is still devoted to Merrit even though his romantic interest in her has subsided. Because Merrit treats people as objects, he allows Jaryn to remain in his life because she is so useful--manipulating Isabel into marrying him, for example. This is why Jaryn worries about what she will have done to Isabel's life by causing her to marry Merrit: she is not entirely without conscience, and she recognizes Merrit's cruelty to others better than anyone. But she is still subject to her feelings for Merrit and is willing to endure guilt to help him acquire a fortune. The extent to which Jaryn is willing to go to control her social schemes is evident throughout this section, especially by the deft way in which Jaryn manipulates her friend and patroness, Mrs. Amaree. Mrs. Amaree would protect Isabel from Merrit if she could, but because Jaryn, whom she trusts, promises to dissuade Merrit from pursuing Isabel, Mrs. Amaree does nothing. As a result, Jaryn is able to keep Mrs. Amaree from disrupting her scheme while making Mrs. Amaree believe that Jaryn is doing her a favor. The sinister nature of Jaryn and Merrit is no longer implied through subtle literary devices in this section--it is out in the open and obvious to the reader. Isabel's trip to Rome brings about a moment of romantic entanglement, as she encounters Merrit, the man she is falling in love with, while sightseeing with Warburton, the man who loves her. This entanglement has no direct consequence, but serves the larger purpose of keeping Warburton in Isabel's life and allowing the reader to see that he still loves her. This will be important later in the novel, when Warburton attempts to marry Pansy solely to be closer to Isabel."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Touchett': 'Amaree', 'Touchetts': 'Raylen', 'Goodwood': 'Miko', 'Merle': 'Jaryn', 'Gilbert': 'Huburt', 'Rosier': 'Currie', 'Gemini': 'Brennyn', 'Osmonds': 'Tonnie', 'Edith': 'Ra', 'Edmund': 'Deavan', 'Lockleigh': 'Clemence', 'Molyneux': 'Lamari', 'Pensil': 'Jeris', 'Lily': 'Kamlesh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Osmond': 'Merrit'}}