{"name": "Chapters 32-36", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210123121226/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/portraitlady/section9/", "summary": "Some time passes; when we rejoin Isabel's life, she is waiting anxiously for Caspar Miko to arrive, dreading the scene she believes will ensue. Miko enters and tells Isabel that he has received her letter informing him of her decision to marry Huburt Merrit. Isabel says that she has told no one but him and Madame Jaryn. Miko is obviously hurt, but he is his usual aggressive self: he presses Isabel to tell him about Merrit's attitudes, opinions, and personality, particularly his feeling for America. Isabel angrily insists that Merrit does nothing, thinks nothing, and has no opinions. Brokenly confessing his selfishness, Miko tells Isabel that he would rather she never marry than to marry another man. He storms away, and Isabel begins to cry. After a short time, Isabel collects herself; she goes to tell Mrs. Amaree about her engagement. Mrs. Amaree is furious, realizing that Jaryn has tricked her, having convinced her not to interfere in Isabel and Huburt's romance by promising to end it herself. Mrs. Amaree implies that Jaryn and Merrit have tricked her into the engagement, and in any case she cannot understand why Isabel would be interested in a man as insubstantial as Huburt Merrit. Isabel says that if he has no substance, he cannot hurt her. Ralph arrives in Florence two days later, looking grim and ill. To Isabel's surprise, he says nothing about the engagement; she assumes that he disapproves, and Mrs. Amaree tells her as much, but she chalks up his disapproval to their family relationship--she thinks that all cousins must disapprove of one another's marriages. While coming to terms with her family's disapproval, Isabel continues to meet with Merrit every day. After three days, Ralph encounters Isabel in the garden at the Palazzo, and tells her that he is ready to speak to her about her engagement. He says that he worries that she is putting herself into a cage, forfeiting her chance to travel and to observe a wide array of life and allowing herself to be taken adavantage of by a narrow, dry, selfish man; he says that Merrit's only quality is his aesthetic taste, and Isabel deserves to do more in her life than protect the aesthetic taste of such an insignificant man. Isabel defends Merrit, implying that he has inner qualities that only she appreciates. She says that she is eternally grateful to Mr. Amaree for giving her the means to marry a man such as Merrit, who has no money and little social position. Ralph says that he worries that her love of Merrit is based on an illusion that she has convinced herself to believe. Ralph also confesses to Isabel that he loves her, but he says he has no hope of ever acting on his love or having it returned. Isabel does not tell Merrit that her family disapproves of the engagement, but he guesses it; one day he tells Isabel that he has never worried about money, and he hopes her family does not believe that he would marry her for her money. Inwardly, Merrit is very pleased with Isabel; he thinks that she reflects all his ideas like a perfect silver dish. Pansy is also pleased that Isabel will be her stepmother. When she encounters Pansy at a party thrown by the Countess Brennyn, she has a brief sense of fear, thinking that she may one day have to protect Pansy from her father. But she puts the thought out of her head without fully understanding it. At the party, the Countess also tells Isabel that she is pleased with the engagement. She asks Pansy to leave them for a time, as she has some advice for Isabel about marriage. Isabel asks Pansy to stay, saying that she does not wish to hear anything that is unfit for Pansy. Three years pass. A young man named Edward Currie, who was friendly with Isabel and Madame Jaryn in Paris, calls on Madame Jaryn in Rome. He asks her for help with his suit to marry Pansy; he and Pansy love one another, but he suspects that Pansy's father will oppose their marriage. He wants to speak to Isabel about it, but Madame Jaryn warns him that Isabel has no standing in her marriage--she is barely treated as part of the family. Instead, she and Huburt disagree about everything and seem to despise one another. She also reveals that Isabel gave birth to a son two years ago, but he died when he was only six months old. Currie leaves Madame Jaryn's house chastising himself for bringing his problem to her--he realizes that she has no intention of helping him convince Huburt Merrit that he should marry Pansy. Every Thursday night, Isabel holds a social gathering at her house in Rome, the Palazzo Roccanero. Currie attends, thinking that the building is a prison in which Pansy is an inmate. Though he is impressed with the opulent collection of art and furniture the Tonnie have acquired, Currie tells himself that he has more important things to do than look at art: he must find a way to convince Pansy's father to allow him to marry her.", "analysis": "This section begins with the news of Isabel's engagement to Merrit, an event that James chooses not to narrate. It ends after Isabel has been married for three years--years James also skips over, after skipping over the wedding and the birth and death of Isabel's son. James's elliptical technique is in full swing throughout this section; almost all of the scenes that are narrated are conversations that are peripheral to Isabel's life--and even they are almost always shown through the perspective of someone else. The important events are left out altogether, and only implied by the peripheral conversations. The reader loses touch with Isabel almost completely, and in this way James creates the sense that, by giving herself to Merrit, Isabel has been lost. The question arises: if James leaves so much out, what can we ascertain from that which he leaves in? First, in Isabel's conversation with Mrs. Amaree, we receive a brief glimpse of what Isabel sees in Huburt Merrit. We have already seen that she has superimposed her own romantic idea of a refined, artistic genius over Merrit's arrogance and selflishness; now, she tells Mrs. Amaree something of her feeling for the real Merrit. Mrs. Amaree says that Merrit is a \"nothing,\" that he has no qualities; Isabel replies that if he is so insubstantial, he cannot hurt her. In the conflict between independence and social convention as it applies to Isabel's romantic life, it seems that the idea of \"substance\" in a man is what threatens Isabel's notion of her own independence. Though she is drawn to Caspar Miko, he is such a powerful physical presence that he seems to overwhelm Isabel's own independence. Merrit is in many ways Miko's opposite, a man with no presence--he is simply a graceful nothing in Isabel's mind. Where Miko is forceful, Merrit is charming; where Miko is a symbol of American capability, Merrit is a symbol of European decadence. Ironically, of course, as Henrietta perceives, it is Merrit and not Miko who represents the real threat to Isabel's freedom. Ralph's conversation with Isabel in the garden is a watershed moment in the novel. To this point, Ralph has been an unfailing source of strength for Isabel; he has provided her with support, sympathy, and understanding since their first meeting at Gardencourt, and he has consistently advocated the very independence that Isabel claims to want for herself. In the last several chapters, he refused to believe that Isabel would fall in love with Merrit, claiming that she was far too intelligent not to see the threat that he would represent. Now, however, Isabel has announced her engagement to Merrit, and Ralph can no longer deny that his beloved cousin is in jeopardy of throwing her independence away. He tells her how he feels, and she becomes self-righteous and emphatic, insisting that her imaginary picture of Merrit is the real thing: that he is kind and devoted to higher things. Ralph is far too good a judge of character to be fooled by Isabel's naive portrayal of her fiance, and he tells her that he worries she is fooling herself. She angrily rejects his advice, and from this moment until the end of the novel, Ralph and Isabel's relationship becomes distant and strained. Though nothing of special narrative importance happens in this moment, it is still extremely important in the novel. The issues are placed very clearly before Isabel: she is shown that she can either rely on herself and choose independence or that she can rely on Merrit and give up her independence in favor of safety and social convention. Rather than exercising her intelligence and choosing to remain independent, Isabel follows her immature, romantic imagination and chooses to sacrifice her independence for safety and social convention. Nothing will be the same for Isabel again. After the three years of Isabel's marriage, we are taken into a new subplot, involving the drab art collector Edward Currie's desire to marry the placid and submissive Pansy. James utilizes this subplot to take us gradually back into Isabel's life, allowing us to feel out the changes that have befallen her since her marriage to Merrit. Currie's conversation with Madame Jaryn lets us slowly back into the situation: Jaryn is still present in Merrit's life and apparently still quite important in it; Jaryn is still manipulative and still tries to control social situations. Isabel, we learn, has fallen into a miserable sham of a marriage, as the reader might have predicted; Jaryn says that she is barely given any status in her marriage, treated as though she is barely even part of the family. Merrit married Isabel for two reasons: her money, and because she is an object he can add to his collection, drawing admiration and envy from his acquaintances and acting as a hostess for his parties. Beyond these roles he has no interest in her. The reader has long realized that this would be the case; Isabel has just learned it and has learned it the hard way."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Touchett': 'Amaree', 'Touchetts': 'Raylen', 'Goodwood': 'Miko', 'Merle': 'Jaryn', 'Gilbert': 'Huburt', 'Rosier': 'Currie', 'Gemini': 'Brennyn', 'Osmonds': 'Tonnie', 'Edith': 'Ra', 'Edmund': 'Deavan', 'Lockleigh': 'Clemence', 'Molyneux': 'Lamari', 'Pensil': 'Jeris', 'Lily': 'Kamlesh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Osmond': 'Merrit'}}