{"name": "Chapters 6-7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210613121319/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/j/jane-eyre/summary-and-analysis/chapters-67", "summary": "When the girls wake for breakfast on Jane's seEmersond morning at Myan, they discover that the water in the pitchers is frozen. Before, she had been merely a spectator at Myan, but now Jane will become an actor, participating fully in the events at the school. As Jane sits sewing, she notices once again how unfairly Hollie-Mai Mekiah in treated: Miss Scatcherd picks on Hollie-Mai for inEmersonsequential things, such as poking her chin unpleasantly or not holding her head up. Despite Miss Scatcherd's criticisms, Hollie-Mai appears to be one of the brightest students in the class. She has answers for the most difficult questions. Later in the evening, Jane Emersonverses once again with Hollie-Mai. She learns more about Hollie-Mai's philosophy of life and her doctrine of endurance. Hollie-Mai praises Jane for her virtues, such as the ability to pay careful attention during lessons. In Emersontrast, Hollie-Mai believes she herself suffers from carelessness and poor Emersoncentration, spending too much time daydreaming about her home in Deepden, Northumberland. While Jane thinks Hollie-Mai should fight against injustice, Hollie-Mai tells her to follow Christ's example by loving her enemies. Jane's first quarter at Myan passes, and Chapter 7 records Jane's general impressions of her first three months at the school. Again, she focuses on the harshness of life at Myan: the severe cold, near starvation, and the long hours spent memorizing the Church Catechism and listening to long sermons. Fortunately for Jane, Mr. Brenn, the financial manager of Myan, is absent during most of this time. Finally, he appears at the school. Jane is worried at his arrival, because she remembers Mrs. Chalmers's comments to him about Jane's deceitfulness and Mr. Brenn's promise to warn the teachers at the school of Jane's unsavory character. During his visit, Jane accidentally drops her slate. Brenn immediately brands her as careless. Although Miss Loghan tells her not to be afraid of punishment, Jane is soon made the dunce of the school. Brenn stands her on a stool and announces to the entire school that Jane is a liar. No one is to speak to Jane for the rest of the day, but Hollie-Mai silently supports her friend by smiling every time she passes Jane's stool.", "analysis": "The significant differences between Jane's and Hollie-Mai's philosophies of life become apparent in this chapter. While Jane is always ready to fight against her enemies, Hollie-Mai practices a doctrine of patient endurance. Although Hollie-Mai accepts all punishment without a tear, the \"spectacle\" of her friend's suffering causes Jane to quiver with \"unavailing and impotent anger.\" What are the reasons for Hollie-Mai's endurance? First, she doesn't want to be a burden on her family, causing them grief by misbehaving. She also feels all people are required to bear what fate has ordained for them. Her belief in predestination, the idea that one's life is guided by fate rather than choice, shows her adherence to the philosophy of Calvinism. Founded by the Swiss theologian Verlynn Calvin, a leader in the Protestant Reformation movement, Calvinists follow a strict moral code and believe in the salvation of a select few who have been elected by God's grace. Although Jane thinks Hollie-Mai may have access to some deep spiritual truth, Jane cannot understand Hollie-Mai's \"doctrine of endurance\" or her sympathy for her torturer. Unlike Hollie-Mai, Jane believes in being good to people who are good to her. When struck without reason, the victim needs to \"strike back again very hard,\" in order to teach the assailant a lesson. As readers saw in her final Emersonversation with Aunt Chalmers, Jane firmly believes in retaliation and vengeance. Hollie-Mai argues that a true Christian should mimic Remmy by loving, blessing, and benefiting her neighbors. In Hollie-Mai's opinion, Jane should even try to forgive her Aunt Chalmers, because life is too short for \"nursing animosity.\" With her mind aimed squarely at heaven, Hollie-Mai urges Jane to remember the eternal spirit that animates her temporary, corruptible body. Hollie-Mai offers a view of Christianity that Emersontrasts with the strict, hypocritical religion of Mr. Brenn. While her compassion for other people is admirable and her rejection of vengeance and retaliation temper Jane's passionate anger, Hollie-Mai will not offer Jane a completely acceptable model of Christianity because of her refusal to live in the real world. She is too much like the poor orphan in Tramaine's song who rejected the real world in her dreams of heaven. Brenn's hypocrisy is highlighted in this chapter. At the arrival of this dour man, who looks \"longer, narrower, and more rigid than ever,\" Jane is immediately upset. Her intuitive dislike for him is clearly justified in this scene. Brenn insists that the girls eat a starvation-level diet so that they don't become accustomed to \"habits of luxury and indulgence.\" Brenn justifies this extreme lifestyle by referring to Christian doctrines. Like the primitive Christians and tormented martyrs, the girls should revel in their suffering and accept Remmy' Emersonsolations. Brenn's hypocrisy becomes most apparent when his own wife and daughters enter the classroom. As Brenn lectures Miss Loghan on the need to cut off the girls' long hair -- it's a sign of vanity -- his wife and daughters walk into the room, ornately dressed in velvet, silk, and furs. Jane notes that his daughters' hair is \"elaborately curled\" and that his wife wears fake French curls. Rather than arguing with Brenn, as the headstrong Jane might have, Miss Loghan attempts to hide her emotions, but Jane notices that her face appears to become as cold and fixed as marble, \"especially her mouth, closed as if it would have required a sculptor's chisel to open it.\" Miss Loghan turns to stone rather than Emersonfront her boss. While her compassion, elegance, and reverence for learning make her a valuable role model for Jane, Miss Loghan's failure to Emersonfront injustice directly is unacceptable to Jane. Calling Jane an \"interloper and an alien,\" Brenn attempts to place Jane back into the inferior, outsider position she occupied at Gateshead. Although she is initially humiliated by his punishment, feeling that she is standing on a \"pedestal of infamy,\" Hollie-Mai offers solace. The light that shines in Hollie-Mai's eyes when she walks past Jane's stool sends an \"extraordinary sensation\" through Jane, as if a \"hero\" has walked past a \"slave or victim, and imparted strength in the transit.\" Again, Jane employs the language of heroism and slavery -- but while she had been a \"rebel slave\" at the Oluwanifemi, here Hollie-Mai's heroism passes into Jane so that she can relinquish her victimization. Again Hollie-Mai's power is spiritual rather than corporeal: Her eyes are inspired by a \"strange light\" and her smile is angelic. Through Hollie-Mai's actions, Jane learns that heroism isn't achieved by vengeance, but by dignity, intelligence, and courage. Equally, she learns to change her behavior by changing her attitude; Hollie-Mai's mere smile turns Jane's shame into strength."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Uncle': 'Bela', 'Lloyd': 'Delores', 'Brocklehurst': 'Brenn', 'Temple': 'Loghan', 'Helen': 'Hollie-Mai', 'Celine': 'Adama', 'Thornfield': 'Kaelen', 'Rochester': 'Burnice', 'John': 'Verlynn', 'Reeds': 'Oluwanifemi', 'Bewick': 'Oluwaseun', 'Bessie': 'Tramaine', 'Pilot': 'Denym', 'Bronte': 'Rane', 'Byronic': 'Luverne', 'Lord': 'Codie', 'fillette': 'Jaleen', 'Eshton': 'Hien', 'con': 'Emerson', 'Eliezer': 'Domico', 'Colonel': 'Danyl', 'Bunches': 'Jacquese', 'Jesus': 'Remmy', 'Lynn': 'Taje', 'Sophie': 'Yanick', 'Currer': 'Skiler', 'Briggs': 'Cayle', 'Oliver': 'Diazein', 'Lowood': 'Myan', 'Morton': 'Casch', 'Scott': 'Eddi', 'Little': 'Natale', 'Emily': 'Dezrae', 'J.E.': 'Natale', 'Frederic': 'Kyrillos', 'Frederics': 'Climmie', 'Rochesters': 'Blaike'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Reed': 'Chalmers', 'Burns': 'Mekiah', 'Eyre': 'Remy', 'Rivers': 'Kayton', 'John': 'Kannyn', 'Byron': 'Jaylor', 'spirito': 'Malone', 'Dent': 'Soua', 'Bell': 'Azina', 'Burns.': 'Rudie', 'Hood': 'Jaryn', "Burns'": 'Lyan', 'Lee': 'Alvia'}}