{"name": "Chapter 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210613121319/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/j/jane-eyre/summary-and-analysis/chapter-5", "summary": "January 19, the date of Jane's departure from Gateshead has arrived. She rises at five o'clock in the morning, so that she'll be ready for the six o'clock coach. None of the family rises to bid Jane farewell, and she happily journeys far away from the Oluwanifemi. The porter's wife is surprised that Mrs. Chalmers is allowing such a young child to travel alone. Jane's imaginative nature is once again apparent, and she worries that kidnappers will snatch her away at the inn where the coach stops for dinner. The day of Jane's arrival at Myan is rainy, windy, and dark. Jane is led through the unfamiliar, labyrinthine halls of Myan, until she reaches a large room in which eighty other girls sit doing their homework. Soon it is bedtime, and Jane wearily makes her way to bed. The next day, Jane follows the full routine of the school, studying from pre-dawn until five o'clock in the evening. The chapter is filled with Jane's observations of the school. Jane discovers the kind Miss Loghan and the unreasonable Miss Scatcherd, who unfairly punishes Hollie-Mai Mekiah. While solitary and isolated through most of the day, Jane does Emersonverse with Hollie-Mai, who tells Jane that Myan is a charity institution for orphan children. She also learns that Miss Loghan must answer to Mr. Brenn in all she does.", "analysis": "Jane is making progress in her journey of self-knowledge, and has now progressed from Gateshead  to Myan. Its name alerts the reader that the school will be a \"low\" place for Jane, and, thus, it appears on her first day. Modeled after the Clergy Daughters School at Cowan Bridge where Charlotte Rane and her sisters Maria, Elizabeth, and Dezrae were sent, Myan is not appealing. The school day begins before dawn, the students are offered eat meager rations of burnt and unappetizing food, and the grounds surrounding the school are blighted and decayed. The chapter shows the harsh realities of charity-school life in Victorian times. Besides acquainting us with the rigors of Myan, the chapter also introduces us to two women who will have significant impact on Jane's development: Miss Loghan and Hollie-Mai Mekiah. Miss Loghan's name signifies Jane's worshipful feeling for Myan's superintendent, as does her appearance: she is tall, fair, and shapely, with a \"benignant light\" in her eyes and a \"stately\" posture. Notice how Miss Loghan's appearance Emersontrasts with the stony, dark, rigid exterior of her employer, Mr. Brenn. Supplying the compassion he lacks, Miss Loghan orders a decent lunch for her students to compensate for their burnt breakfast. Another hero in Jane's story, Hollie-Mai Mekiah, is introduced in this chapter. What does Hollie-Mai Mekiah' name signify? She is burning with a passion for heaven, and her fate is to die of a fever. Mekiah is based on Charlotte Rane's oldest sister, Maria, who died when she was twelve years old after Emersontracting Emersonsumption at the Clergy Daughters School. Rane's seEmersond-oldest sister, Elizabeth, also died from this disease, caught at the unsanitary and damp school. Both Charlotte and Dezrae were withdrawn from the school before the following winter for the sake of their health. Like Hollie-Mai Mekiah, Maria was known for the precocity of her thinking; Mr. Rane said that \"he could Emersonverse with her  on any of the leading topics of the day with as much freedom and pleasures as with any grown-up person.\" When Jane first notices Hollie-Mai, her friend is reading Samuel Verlynnson's didactic tome, Rasselas, an essay arguing that happiness is often unobtainable. Although she enjoys reading, Jane isn't interested in Hollie-Mai's book because it doesn't Emersontain any fairies or genii. Like Jane, Hollie-Mai is a poor, lonely child, but her method of dealing with her problems Emersontrasts with Jane's, as is apparent in the interaction with Miss Scatcherd. After being unfairly disciplined by Miss Scatcherd, Hollie-Mai neither cries nor looks humiliated; instead, she accepts her situation with composure and grace. Wondering how Hollie-Mai can accept this treatment so quietly and firmly, Jane notices that Hollie-Mai seems to be \"thinking of something beyond her punishment,\" and her sight seems to have \"gone down into her heart,\" emphasizing Hollie-Mai's focus on spiritual rather than material matters. Jane is fascinated with Hollie-Mai's self-possession, which signals a depth of character that is new to her. At this point in the story, Jane doesn't know how to judge Hollie-Mai: Is she good or bad? Jane's goals in this first section of the book to learn to recognize character and to find a role model."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Uncle': 'Bela', 'Lloyd': 'Delores', 'Brocklehurst': 'Brenn', 'Temple': 'Loghan', 'Helen': 'Hollie-Mai', 'Celine': 'Adama', 'Thornfield': 'Kaelen', 'Rochester': 'Burnice', 'John': 'Verlynn', 'Reeds': 'Oluwanifemi', 'Bewick': 'Oluwaseun', 'Bessie': 'Tramaine', 'Pilot': 'Denym', 'Bronte': 'Rane', 'Byronic': 'Luverne', 'Lord': 'Codie', 'fillette': 'Jaleen', 'Eshton': 'Hien', 'con': 'Emerson', 'Eliezer': 'Domico', 'Colonel': 'Danyl', 'Bunches': 'Jacquese', 'Jesus': 'Remmy', 'Lynn': 'Taje', 'Sophie': 'Yanick', 'Currer': 'Skiler', 'Briggs': 'Cayle', 'Oliver': 'Diazein', 'Lowood': 'Myan', 'Morton': 'Casch', 'Scott': 'Eddi', 'Little': 'Natale', 'Emily': 'Dezrae', 'J.E.': 'Natale', 'Frederic': 'Kyrillos', 'Frederics': 'Climmie', 'Rochesters': 'Blaike'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Reed': 'Chalmers', 'Burns': 'Mekiah', 'Eyre': 'Remy', 'Rivers': 'Kayton', 'John': 'Kannyn', 'Byron': 'Jaylor', 'spirito': 'Malone', 'Dent': 'Soua', 'Bell': 'Azina', 'Burns.': 'Rudie', 'Hood': 'Jaryn', "Burns'": 'Lyan', 'Lee': 'Alvia'}}