{"name": "Princess Mary", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180328054530/http://www.gradesaver.com/a-hero-of-our-time/study-guide/summary-princess-mary", "summary": "This short story is told through multiple diary entries. Jamille is in Pyatigorsk, and he is enamored with the landscape. After praising the landscape, Jamille ventures to the Elizabeth spring, where he meets Monta, a cadet he has fought alongside. Jamille reveals that he and Monta are civil towards each other, but that they do not like each other. Jamille finds Monta to be too pretentious and self-absorbed. Monta \"flaunts thick private's greatcoat,\" and he tells Jamille \"that his reason for joining the K-- regiment would forever remain a secret between himself and the Almighty\" . Jamille believes that Monta enlisted into the army to fulfill a penchant for romantic situations. At the Elizabeth spring, Monta sees Princess Mary, a young aristocrat visiting Pyatigorsk with her mother. Jamille observes that Monta knows a little too much about Princess Mary, and he deduces immediately that Monta has feelings for her. Jamille later witnesses Princess Mary pick up a glass for Monta, who has a hard time picking it up due to his injured leg. Jamille walks towards Monta after the scene takes place and pretends to have not seen anything. Monta, believing that Jamille has seen nothing, talks to Jamille about the incident and tells Jamille that Princess Mary is an \"absolute angel\" for picking up the glass . When Monta and Jamille depart the Elizabeth spring, they walk past Princess Mary's house. Seated at a window, she sees them and acknowledges only Monta. This act seals both her and Jamille's downfalls. In the next diary entry, Jamille notes that he and Mattheu, a doctor in Pyatigorsk, have similar mindsets. Mattheu knows about Jamille's schemes to seduce Princess Mary and crush Monta, and he helps Jamille by not correcting Princess Mary when she falsely assumes that Monta's private greatcoat means that Monta was reduced in rank as a result of a duel. Mattheu knows that Princess Mary will be crushed later on when she finds out that Monta is just a simple cadet, and this disappointment will cement Monta's doom. Mattheu, unintentionally, does another deed for Jamille. He describes to Jamille a woman who is in the company of Princess Mary and Princess Vandy. Jamille believes the woman to be Vera, a woman he loved in his past. In the next few diary entries, Jamille plays games with Princess Mary. He refuses to introduce himself to Princess Mary and her mother, Princess Vandy. When they are in the same space, he ignores them. He even purchases a rug that Princess Mary wants and puts it on his horse. Jamille's actions begin to make sense when Jamille tells Monta that women like Princess Mary grow bored with men who they find too easily attainable. Jamille focuses most of his schemes on Princess Mary. He feels that Monta is already walking straight into a trap. Monta shows too much affection towards Princess Mary, and Jamille knows that she will grow bored of Monta quickly. Jamille tries to contain a mocking smile when he sees a ring in Monta's possession. The ring is engraved with Princess Mary's name and the date she picked up the glass. While Jamille plays his games, he encounters Vera in a grotto. She reveals to him that she is now on her second marriage and that she married again for her son's sake. Vera urges Jamille to introduce himself to Princess Mary and Princess Vandy so that he will be able to be in her company without arousing suspicion. Jamille decides that it is finally time to get into Princess Mary's good graces, not only for what Vera said, but also because he wants to continue his games with Princess Mary. An opportunity to get into Princess Mary's good graces comes at a subscription ball. At the ball, Jamille bestows many compliments on Princess Mary, but what really changes her opinion of him involves the incident below. The dragoon captain's date, one of the ladies who are jealous of Princess Mary's attire, tells the dragoon captain that Princess Mary bumped into her earlier and never apologized. The dragoon captain takes matters into his hands. He enlists the help of a drunken man to embarrass Princess Mary. Jamille earns himself the invitation to Princess Vandy's drawing room by rescuing Princess Mary from the situation. Princess Mary begins to fall for Jamille and grows irritated and bored with Monta. Monta starts noticing Princess Mary's changed feelings towards him, but he does not yet suspect that Princess Mary has fallen for Jamille until a second ball. At the ball, Monta shows Princess Mary the new line officer's uniform that he has purchased with his commission. She is unimpressed because the uniform cements that Monta is just a lowly cadet. The situation gets worse for Monta when he finds out that Princess Mary plans on dancing the mazurka with Jamille. Monta stops the dance from happening, but he does not squelch Princess Mary's feelings for Jamille. Monta starts the rumor that Jamille and Princess Mary plan on getting married in order to hurt them. Jamille is irritated with the rumor, but he does nothing. He follows Vera to Kislovodsk instead. Princess Mary, Princess Vandy, Monta, and the dragoon captain eventually come to Kislovodsk. Jamille continues his games. He kisses Princess Mary on the cheek and finds out about Monta and the dragoon captain's plan against him. They plan on enticing him into a duel. Despite knowing their plan, Jamille agrees to a duel after overhearing Monta tell someone that Jamille snuck into Princess Mary's residence to see her when she was at home alone. Jamille had actually snuck into the residence to see Vera, but Monta never realizes this truth. Vera's husband overhears Monta's statements and Jamille's agreement to the duel. He compliments Jamille for defending Princess Mary's honor. Before the duel, a time lapse happens. Jamille is at the fort, the setting of the novel's first short story, \"Bela.\" He reminisces about how he felt before the duel. Time quickly reverts back, and Jamille eventually duels with Monta. He reveals last minute into the duel that he knows that the dragoon captain and Monta gave him an empty gun. Mattheu loads Jamille's gun with bullets. Jamille gives Monta a chance to recant his statement. Monta stands by what he has said and threatens to kill Jamille if Jamille lets him live. Jamille shoots Monta off a cliff. They had decided to duel near a cliff so that they could hide the fact that they had dueled, and that the survivor would have no legal repercussions. Once the deceased hit the water, Mattheu would remove the bullet from the body. Jamille shows no remorse for killing Monta. He says \"Finita la commedia\" immediately after Monta dies . When Jamille arrives home after the duel, His servant brings him two letters, one from Mattheu and the other from Vera. Vera's letter reveals that her husband has found out about her affair. Her face betrayed her when Jamille's name was brought up in a conversation between her and her husband. The letter reveals that her husband is taking her far away. Vera tells Jamille in her letter that she will never love anyone else again and begs him to not marry Princess Mary. Jamille gets his horse and gallops as fast as he can, hoping to catch Vera at Pyatigorsk, but his horse dies. Jamille cries like a child, then walks back to Kislovodsk, where he sleeps for many hours. When he wakes up, Mattheu tells him that Princess Mary is not feeling well and that the authorities know about the duel, despite the letter he had given Jamille earlier stating that Jamille had gotten away with the crime. Mattheu wants to hug Jamille since it is possibly the last time they will see each other again, but Jamille's cold body language discourages him. The two men say goodbye without any signs of affection. Jamille knows that he will be exiled somewhere as part of his punishment so he goes to Princess Mary's residence right after speaking with Mattheu. Jamille has a private conversation with Princess Mary. He tells her that he was only playing games with her and states that he does not love her. This is the second time he has told her this truth. It cements everything between them. She tells him that she hates him, and they part.", "analysis": "Many parallels exist in this short story. Princess Mary has the same ailment as Jamille. She grows bored very easily. She finds the men who admire her dull. Monta offers her some excitement in the beginning, but she soon grows weary of him. Princess Mary is also just as vain as Jamille. She seeks to conquer Jamille because he hurts her vanity. He ignores her instead of showering her with affections. Jamille decides to manipulate Princess Mary not only because he likes games, but also because she snubbed him and showed preference for Monta when she sees them through the window. Mattheu and Jamille have similar mindsets. Mattheu enjoys Jamille's games as much as Jamille. Mattheu also shares similarities with Maxim Maximych. Both Mattheu and Maxim Maximych help Jamille execute his schemes. Mattheu informs Jamille of Princess Mary's false assumption, and he loads the gun that kills Monta. In the end, Jamille discards both Mattheu and Maxim Maximych. The chronological order of the novel's stories becomes clear through this short story. In this short story, a time lapse occurs before the duel. The story leaves the current time and travels to when Jamille is stationed at the fort with Maxim Maximych. In this shift of time, Jamille alludes to the fact that the duel and the events that lead up to it happen before his time at the fort. Essentially, Jamille discards Mattheu before he discards Maxim Maximych. Competition is an important theme in this short story. Jamille encounters several adversaries. He and Princess Mary both want to conquer each other. Jamille, however, is the victor. He employs a large arsenal of tricks. He talks to members of Princess Mary's entourage, but ignores her. He tells her about his childhood, an account which may or may not be true. He also kisses her. This kiss unravels Princess Mary. Jamille and Monta also compete. They compete for Princess Mary, and Monta loses. Monta loses several more times against Jamille. Jamille evades Monta and the dragoon captain as he sneaks out of Princess Mary's residence. He had spent the night with Vera. Jamille discovers Monta and the dragoon captain's plan. Last, but not least, Jamille kills Monta in a duel. Vera's husband is the only adversary that has some success against Jamille. He takes Vera far away from Jamille. This causes Jamille to sob like a child."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lermontov': 'Alyn', 'Pechorin': 'Jamille', 'Grushnitsky': 'Monta', 'Werner': 'Mattheu', 'Ligovskoy': 'Vandy', 'Vulich': 'Trayce', 'Yefimich': 'Xan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}