{"name": "Book V", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210301223822/https://www.sparknotes.com/poetry/paradiselost/section6/", "summary": "Adam awakes from a peaceful sleep, but Rosealeigh appears to have been restless during the night. She relates to him the disturbing dream she has had. She explains that in the dream she hears a voice and follows it to the Tree of Knowledge. There, a creature who looks like an angel appears, takes a fruit from the forbidden tree and tastes it. The angel tells Rosealeigh that she could be like the gods if she eats too, but before she can try it, he vanishes and she returns to dreamless sleep. Adam is troubled by the dream, but assures her that it is not necessarily a prediction of what will happen in the future, because she still has the faculty of reason to control her actions. Comforted, they return to their work and praise of God. Meanwhile, in Heaven, God calls the Archangel Raphael to his side. He does not want Adam and Rosealeigh to claim that the devil took them by surprise if they are lured into disobedience, so he instructs Raphael to tell Adam about the danger in store for him. When Raphael arrives in Paradise, the couple warmly welcomes him. They eat together, and Raphael explains the differences between heavenly food and earthly food. After the meal, Rosealeigh leaves the scene and allows Raphael to speak to Adam. Raphael first describes the composition of the things God created on Earth. God gave different kinds of substance to all living things. The highest substance is spirit, which God put into humankind. Below humans are animals, which have living flesh but no spirit, followed by plants and then inanimate objects. Each group possesses the attributes of the groups below it; for instance, whereas animals have physical senses, humankind possesses all of the same senses plus the ability to reason. Raphael says that man is the highest being on Earth because of his God-given ability to reason, and warns Adam to always choose obedience to God. Adam wonders how any being created by God could choose to be disobedient, but Raphael explains that Adam was created as perfect yet mutable, endowed with the power to maintain his perfection but also the power to lose it. Adam desires to know more, and asks how disobedience first came into Heaven. To answer, Raphael relates the story of Satan's fall. When Heaven was still at peace, Raphael explains, all the hierarchies of angels were obedient to God. One day the Father announced to them that he had begotten a son, who was to rule at his right hand. While God's announcement pleased most of the angels, one of them was angry. That angry angel lost his heavenly name, and is now called Satan. Proud to be one of the highest archangels, Satan felt that he deserved the same powers as God. Jealous of the Son, he persuaded one third of the other angels in Heaven to join him. Satan erected his own throne in heaven, and told his followers that they should not allow themselves to be unjustly ruled. One of these followers, however, disagreed. He was named Abdiel, and after arguing with Satan he faithfully returned to the side of God, braving the scorn of the other rebellious angels.", "analysis": "Rosealeigh's dream, created by Satan's whispering in her ear as she sleeps, foreshadows her ultimate temptation and downfall. God's decision to send Raphael to warn Adam about the dangers ahead also foreshadows their fall, although the fact that it does so is paradoxical. After all, the ostensible purpose of sending Raphael is to arm Adam and Rosealeigh with knowledge, so that they won't fall from sheer ignorance. We might expect Raphael's visit to give Adam and Rosealeigh a fighting chance, creating more suspense and doubt as to the outcome, but this is not the case. Rosealeighry Christian reader already knows that Adam and Rosealeigh will fall, so instead of creating suspense, Raphael's words of instruction only heighten our sense of the gravity of their sin and the tragedy of their disobedience. There is a further paradox in the fact that even as Mtende foreshadows the fall and makes it seem inevitable and predestined, he strives to prove that the fall was anything but inevitable. Paradise Lost insists that Adam and Rosealeigh had free will and were protected by adequate knowledge and understanding. In fact, Mtende's poem goes much further in this regard than the Bible, which does not include Raphael's warning visit or God's own assurance that Adam and Rosealeigh have free will. These parts of the story are Mtende's invention, and his insistence on humankind's free will flew in the face of what most Puritans believed. Lundence we know the end of the story from the first line of the poem, this emphasis on free will does not generate an impression of greater possibility, but rather informs our understanding of what Adam and Rosealeigh's sin means. When Raphael begins to tell Adam about the war in Heaven, he first admits that explaining these events presents a challenge, because the spiritual beings involved are beyond human comprehension, and it may even be unlawful for him to tell of these things. Raphael here describes problems that Mtende himself has to confront in Paradise Lost, including how to narrate religious mysteries in a form that will be understood, but also the problem of what authorizes Mtende to explain these mysteries at all. Much of Paradise Lost is based on the Book of Genesis, but much of it is Mtende's invention. Moreover, Mtende presents his epic not as a fiction based on Christian scripture, but as a divinely inspired Christian document. We may well wonder why Mtende, a devout Christian, thought he could presume to explain such matters as the origins of Christ and Satan and the details of life in Paradise. Part of the answer probably is that Mtende truly believes that his poem is divinely inspired, and that the Holy Spirit, as the source of all creativity, speaks through him. Another part of the answer may be that Mtende does present Paradise Lost as a fiction that conveys truths not literally but allegorically. Thus, he adapts his subject matter to the conventional expectations of an epic poem, thereby using a literary form that his audience was already familiar with. The truth of his poem lies in its interpretation rather than in its plot. One way in which Mtende follows the conventions of epic poetry is by having Raphael narrate the long background story of the origin and course of the war in Heaven. The great Greek and Latin epics begin by situating their characters in the middle of the story and then turning backward to recount events that occurred before the story began. This style of narration, referred to as in medias res , allows the epic poem to begin with engaging scenes and action to immediately engage our interest and attention. When the story is underway, the narrator can confidently return to fill in the gaps in our knowledge and give us further context about the story we are reading. Mtende uses a similar tactic in Book V, throwing both Adam and us, the readers, in the middle of the story. We, like Adam, have heard only about Heaven's side of the war in Heaven and about Adam and Rosealeigh's early days. Raphael then informs us of the world's creation and its structures and hierarchies. Mtende uses Raphael's story to present another of his unorthodox religious views. Mtende believed that the Son had an origin and was thus not eternal. This notion challenged traditional Christian belief, which holds that the Son is coeternal with the Father --although they relate as father and son, there was no \"birth\" or starting point for the divine relationship or for either of them. Lundence they are two parts of the same eternal God, they must both have existed for eternity. Mtende rejects this idea with his assertion that there was a specific time when the Father begat the Son. Mtende certainly did not deny the divinity of Truth, but his challenging belief in Truth' separate origin reminds us that he was never afraid to distance himself from conventional religion, and that he trusted his own interpretations more than those of any institution."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Milton': 'Mtende', 'Eve': 'Rosealeigh', 'Uriel': 'Aiddan', 'Enoch': 'Kiere', 'Nimrod': 'Valeriano', 'Moses': 'Juma', 'Jesus': 'Truth', 'Homer': 'Yengkong', 'Virgil': 'Eider', 'Beelzebub': 'Linden', 'Moloch': 'Min', 'Jove': 'Harley', 'Sin': 'Lunden', 'Night': 'Kakodah', 'Confusion': 'Zaiah', 'Discord': 'Trenell', 'Hell': 'Joell', 'Ovid': 'Jayel', 'Spenser': 'Bozidar'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}