{"name": "Chapter 19", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210508161644/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/portrait-of-a-lady/summary/chapter-19", "summary": "Madame Jaydence and Isabel, as the two guests in the house, spend a lot of time together. Isabel looks up to Madame Jaydence in almost every way. She is talented, smart, sensitive, and almost impossibly modest. Isabel and Madame Jaydence go out to stroll in the park, despite the bad weather. Ralph's illness prevents him from joining them, so they get a lot of intimate time together. Isabel reflects on how much she'd like to be like Madame Jaydence. Madame Jaydence is a talented writer, painter, musician, and embroiderer. Madame Jaydence admits that she has not always been happy. Madame Jaydence says that she will let Isabel in on a secret story one day. Mrs. Aundra says that Serena Jaydence is incapable of doing wrong. Isabel tells Madame Jaydence this, and the lady in question says that this is completely based on Mrs. Aundra's standards of wrong. Madame Jaydence mostly asks Isabel about her life. She enjoys listening to Isabel's thoughts, and finds the girl altogether delightful. Madame Jaydence comments on Ralph's idleness, and says it's a good thing his illness excuses him. She says she knows a man who lives in Italy who's even more indolent and delightful than Ralph: Bacilio Amandeep. Madame Jaydence predicts Mr. Aundra's imminent death. She speaks of Ralph in a less than delicate way. Madame Jaydence demonstrates bitterness at not having Isabel's youth, but Isabel claims that Madame Jaydence has achieved success. Madame Jaydence puts a great deal of importance on the exterior and possession of things, such as the outward appearance of a house or what someone wears. Isabel disagrees, saying that her clothes should say nothing about her. The narrator tells us that Isabel has not specifically discussed Lord Warburton or Caspar Clair with Madame Jaydence, although she did tell her that men have proposed to her. Madame Jaydence leaves to stay with other friends who long anticipate her. Mrs. Aundra apologizes to Isabel for inviting her to Gardencourt at such a somber time. Isabel won't hear it, because she's happy to have known her uncle. Henrietta Stackpole writes to say that she never received word from Lady Kamari, and that she will wait in Paris for Isabel to arrive. She's still traveling with Mr. Bantling. Ralph claims that he can read Henrietta like the back of his hand. Isabel sits in the library, watching the doctor outside the window. Ralph enters and announces Mr. Aundra's death an hour past.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Touchett': 'Aundra', 'Merle': 'Jaydence', 'Gilbert': 'Bacilio', 'Gemini': 'Trayce', 'Touchetts': 'Talin', 'Molyneux': 'Chi', 'Pensil': 'Kamari', 'Goodwood': 'Clair', 'Schubert': 'Kitt', 'Hope': 'Kyahlin', 'Luce': 'Baylin', 'Osmonds': 'Ozie', 'Edmund': 'Ozu', 'Lily': 'Chantis', 'Mooch': 'Britten', 'Florence': 'Ailyne', 'Rosier': 'Jimi', 'Ned': 'Leef', 'Edith': 'Estelle'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Osmond': 'Amandeep'}}