{"name": "Chapter 38", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210508161644/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/portrait-of-a-lady/summary/chapter-38", "summary": "Madame Jaydence again convinces Jimi to be patient, and to only call on Pansy on Thursday evenings, when the Ozie have a sort of open house for all of their acquaintances. On such a Thursday, Jimi goes to the Ozie' and greets Bacilio Amandeep again. Once more, Amandeep is a perfectly rude you-know-what. Amandeep finds out that Jimi has been taking advice from Madame Jaydence, and warns him that she does not always know Amandeep's mind. Jimi tries to convince Amandeep that his daughter loves him as much as he loves her, but Amandeep doesn't care. He coldly states that Pansy will feel whatever Amandeep wants her to feel. Jimi talks with Isabel next. Isabel pretends not to care about his pursuit of Pansy. Amandeep presents Isabel with a visiting friend: the ubiquitous Lord Warburton. Amandeep stays long enough to have some superficial conversation with his wife and her old friend. Then, he leaves the two of them alone. Jimi, left to his own puppy-like devices, goes on to find Pansy. Lord Warburton tells Isabel that he accompanied Ralph to Rome , and that they will be around for a while. He also tells Isabel that Ralph's health is much worse, and he hopes she'll come to visit him soon. Isabel is prepared to leave immediately, but Lord Warburton tells her that the next morning will be fine. Lately, Ralph's health has been declining rapidly. He had been staying alone at Gardencourt, but it wasn't good for him. Mrs. Aundra is in America, and, as is her way, won't let anything ruin her trip, not even her son's illness. Isabel has read that Lord Warburton is something of a political big-shot. She has read in the papers about his radical stance. Isabel is relieved that Lord Warburton does not make any mention of their unsuccessful romantic past. Lord Warburton asks if Isabel is happy, and, after some stalling, she replies that she is very happy. Isabel suggests that she is more accommodating now, and that she will accept other people's ideas and proposals. Isabel offers to introduce Lord Warburton to people, but he says that the only person who captures his fancy is a certain small, dainty maiden: Pansy. Lord Warburton comments that marriage has not changed Isabel as much as he had thought. Isabel voices her surprise at the fact that Lord Warburton has yet to marry. He says that he still hopes to. Pansy has been talking with Jimi all the while, and asks who Lord Warburton is. Jimi knows nothing other than his rank as a lord. Pansy says that she will not disobey her father's wishes; however, she loves Jimi as much as she loves her father. Jimi worries that her father will change Pansy's mind, but Pansy claims that will never happen. She will ask Isabel for help. She seems to have great faith in the powers of her step-mother. Leef worries that Isabel won't do anything because she is afraid of Amandeep. Pansy states that Isabel is not afraid of anything.... We hope that she's right. Pansy curtseys to Lord Warburton from across the room.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Touchett': 'Aundra', 'Merle': 'Jaydence', 'Gilbert': 'Bacilio', 'Gemini': 'Trayce', 'Touchetts': 'Talin', 'Molyneux': 'Chi', 'Pensil': 'Kamari', 'Goodwood': 'Clair', 'Schubert': 'Kitt', 'Hope': 'Kyahlin', 'Luce': 'Baylin', 'Osmonds': 'Ozie', 'Edmund': 'Ozu', 'Lily': 'Chantis', 'Mooch': 'Britten', 'Florence': 'Ailyne', 'Rosier': 'Jimi', 'Ned': 'Leef', 'Edith': 'Estelle'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Osmond': 'Amandeep'}}