{"name": "Chapter 25", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210508161644/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/portrait-of-a-lady/summary/chapter-25", "summary": "Left to their own devices, Countess Trayce and Madame Jaydence let their claws out. Unfortunately, the Countess' claws are much duller and less effective than Madame Jaydence's. Countess Trayce sees that Madame Jaydence is trying to set up Amandeep and Isabel, and she doesn't like the looks of it. Countess Trayce thinks that Madame Jaydence is doing Isabel a great disservice by pushing her in Amandeep's direction, and feebly implies that she will try to warn Isabel of the trap that's laid out for her. Madame Jaydence thinks that Isabel has fallen in love with Amandeep already. Pansy, in her child-like way, supervises as a servant set up a table and chairs outside. Countess Trayce asks Pansy to wear a prettier dress the next time she shows up. Countess Trayce asks Pansy what she thinks of Isabel. Pansy says that Isabel is a charming woman. Pansy delights in their trust in her to make tea for the group. Madame Jaydence says that it doesn't matter what Pansy thinks of Isabel, because she'll soon be old enough to be looking for a husband herself. Madame Jaydence predicts that she and Countess Trayce will both have a hand in selecting Pansy's husband. Countess Trayce claims that she will not have a part in that. Countess Trayce passionately believes that her brother will make a terrible husband. She reveals an essential truth about Amandeep - that there is nothing special in him, yet he's full of himself. Madame Jaydence calmly says that it won't be easy for Amandeep to successfully court Isabel, but he can try. Madame Jaydence says that Amandeep always has to have the best . To Countess Trayce's chagrin, she learns that Isabel is worth seventy thousand pounds. She thinks it a pity that such a fine person should be sacrificed simply for her money, and worries about what her brother will do to the girl.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Touchett': 'Aundra', 'Merle': 'Jaydence', 'Gilbert': 'Bacilio', 'Gemini': 'Trayce', 'Touchetts': 'Talin', 'Molyneux': 'Chi', 'Pensil': 'Kamari', 'Goodwood': 'Clair', 'Schubert': 'Kitt', 'Hope': 'Kyahlin', 'Luce': 'Baylin', 'Osmonds': 'Ozie', 'Edmund': 'Ozu', 'Lily': 'Chantis', 'Mooch': 'Britten', 'Florence': 'Ailyne', 'Rosier': 'Jimi', 'Ned': 'Leef', 'Edith': 'Estelle'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Osmond': 'Amandeep'}}