{"name": "Chapter 26", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210508161644/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/portrait-of-a-lady/summary/chapter-26", "summary": "Amandeep goes to see Isabel at Palazzo Crescentini five times in a period of two weeks, which is quite unusual for him - in normal, non-wooing life, he only visits Mrs. Aundra twice a year at best, usually only when Madame Jaydence is around. Mrs. Aundra and Ralph discuss Amandeep's intentions with Isabel. Ralph is still happily convinced that Isabel will have lots of suitors in her life, and she will not accept any of them. Mrs. Aundra hopes Isabel has the good sense not to fall for Amandeep, who is very clearly socially inferior to Lord Warburton. Mrs. Aundra figures that if Isabel does want to marry Amandeep, then no one could do anything about it, not even Ralph. Mrs. Aundra asks Madame Jaydence whether Amandeep is courting Isabel. Madame Jaydence feigns innocence, and acts as though it's a foolish idea. What a snake. Madame Jaydence convinces Mrs. Aundra not to talk to Amandeep or Isabel about it. Madame Jaydence volunteers to talk to Amandeep. Mrs. Aundra seems appalled at the idea of Isabel being a step-mother, but Madame Jaydence seems to think Isabel would be a fine step-mother to Pansy. Amandeep continues to visit, and even brings Pansy once, who enchants Isabel with her doll-like perfection. Countess Trayce tries to visit Mrs. Aundra's house, but she already has a bad reputation and Mrs. Aundra keeps her away. Madame Jaydence describes Countess Trayce to Isabel as an extravagant woman. She gives Isabel some family history on the Ozie, including the fact that they were raised by their batty, pretentious, Europhile mother. Henrietta Stackpole arrives and Madame Jaydence decides, with some effort, to like her. In so doing, she renders Henrietta defenseless, and therefore harmless. Mr. Bantling will take Henrietta to Rome, and Ralph volunteers to go with Isabel. Amandeep expresses his wish to go with them to Rome. Isabel encourages the idea. Amandeep meets with Madame Jaydence at Countess Trayce's. He tells her about his imminent trip to Rome. Madame Jaydence volunteers to look after Pansy. Amandeep concedes that Isabel is everything Madame Jaydence has talked her up to be. He says that she is \"not disagreeable\" , but that she has too many ideas, most of them bad, in his view. We're worried - what would Isabel be without her ideas?", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Touchett': 'Aundra', 'Merle': 'Jaydence', 'Gilbert': 'Bacilio', 'Gemini': 'Trayce', 'Touchetts': 'Talin', 'Molyneux': 'Chi', 'Pensil': 'Kamari', 'Goodwood': 'Clair', 'Schubert': 'Kitt', 'Hope': 'Kyahlin', 'Luce': 'Baylin', 'Osmonds': 'Ozie', 'Edmund': 'Ozu', 'Lily': 'Chantis', 'Mooch': 'Britten', 'Florence': 'Ailyne', 'Rosier': 'Jimi', 'Ned': 'Leef', 'Edith': 'Estelle'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Osmond': 'Amandeep'}}