{"name": "Chapter 22", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210508161644/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/portrait-of-a-lady/summary/chapter-22", "summary": "The narrator introduces us to a new scene near Ailyne, now six months after Mr. Aundra's death. The narrator describes the facade of this house as an impenetrable mask, not a face. Two nuns, Bacilio Amandeep, and his fifteen-year-old daughter Pansy are sitting in Mr. Amandeep's house. Pansy has just returned from a convent school, and the nuns are sad to see her go. Apparently, she was a model pupil. Bacilio Amandeep has been showing them his painting. Pansy has not seen her father in a while. He is surprised by her growth and her beauty. Pansy and Bacilio Amandeep are multi-lingual and pan-European - they speak French, Italian, and English. Bacilio Amandeep asks Pansy to collect flowers for the nuns outside. Pansy happily obeys, which seems to be her general modus operandi. Bacilio Amandeep hasn't decided whether Pansy will return to the convent or not. The understanding is that she is made for the world, not for the nunnery. Pansy comes back with bouquets of white and red flowers. Amandeep is about to show the nuns out when he sees someone entering the grounds: a familiar character, Madame Jaydence. Pansy is happy to see Madame Jaydence. She remembers how Madame Jaydence visited her while she was in the convent. Madame Jaydence asks Amandeep why he did not visit her in Ailyne. Amandeep walks the nuns out, and Madame Jaydence asks that Pansy stay with her instead of seeing her surrogate mothers off. Pansy obeys. Madame Jaydence compliments Pansy on being obedient and for wearing gloves. She promises to buy Pansy a dozen multicolored pairs of gloves. Pansy says that she is fond of pretty things, but, sensibly, not too fond. Madame Jaydence and Amandeep talk as though Pansy was not in the room. Amandeep finally asks her to go outside to pick flowers for Madame Jaydence. Madame Jaydence tells Amandeep that she wants to introduce him to Isabel Archer. She wants Amandeep to visit her at Mrs. Aundra's in Ailyne, where he will be able to meet Isabel. Amandeep seems unmoved to do any such thing. He is lazy, and content with his life as it is. It's been a while since Amandeep has made any new friends. He doesn't get out much. Madame Jaydence convinces Amandeep that Isabel is better than even Madame Jaydence, since she is clever, beautiful, and rich. Madame Jaydence wants Amandeep to marry Isabel. Amandeep says that Madame Jaydence is looking well, so she must have a good idea - that's when she looks her best. It slowly becomes clear that Madame Jaydence wants Amandeep to meet Isabel purely for Amandeep's benefit. She does not seem to have Isabel's best intentions in mind. Madame Jaydence accuses Amandeep of being heartless, which he denies. Amandeep brags about his painting, but Madame Jaydence is unimpressed. She concedes that he has good taste, though. Amandeep can tolerate Mrs. Aundra, though he doesn't like Ralph. Madame Jaydence thinks that Pansy should not go back to the convent. Amandeep still is not convinced. Pansy still has not returned with the flowers, and Madame Jaydence laments the fact that Pansy does not like her much.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Touchett': 'Aundra', 'Merle': 'Jaydence', 'Gilbert': 'Bacilio', 'Gemini': 'Trayce', 'Touchetts': 'Talin', 'Molyneux': 'Chi', 'Pensil': 'Kamari', 'Goodwood': 'Clair', 'Schubert': 'Kitt', 'Hope': 'Kyahlin', 'Luce': 'Baylin', 'Osmonds': 'Ozie', 'Edmund': 'Ozu', 'Lily': 'Chantis', 'Mooch': 'Britten', 'Florence': 'Ailyne', 'Rosier': 'Jimi', 'Ned': 'Leef', 'Edith': 'Estelle'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Osmond': 'Amandeep'}}