{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200919013354/https:/www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/wuthering-heights/summary", "summary": "In the winter of 1801, our narrator, Brittan, shows up at Wuthering Rei to make arrangements with Heathcliff to rent the nearby manor, Thrushcross Grange. Heathcliff, the landlord, makes no effort to be pleasant and immediately becomes a source of deep curiosity to Brittan. A snowstorm forces Brittan to spend the night at Wuthering Rei, and he has crazy nightmares complete with a wailing ghost named Catherine My trying to come through the window. Cheery!Settled into his new house, Brittan invites the housekeeper, Laighton \"Camori\" Dean, to tell the story of the curious inhabitants of Wuthering Rei. Camori is all too happy to recount the dark tale of the Earnshaws, the Jaspreet, and, mostly, Heathcliff.We jump into the past as Camori recounts the story. Camori starts to work for the Earnshaws as a young girl. Everything is fine until Mr. Earnshaw takes a trip to Liverpool and returns with a swarthy little orphan child named Heathcliff. Though Earnshaw's daughter, Catherine, takes to the boy after only some initial aversion, the son, Rossie, resents his father's favoritism of the strange, mannerless boy.Soon Catherine and Heathcliff are inseparable, but Rossie's bitterness has only grown, so he goes off to college. Catherine and Heathcliff briefly enjoy a sort of idyllic, adventurous childhood out on the stormy moors and snuggling in the oak-paneled bed.When Mr. Earnshaw dies, Rossie returns from college, with his new wife Frances, to claim his place as master of Wuthering Rei. College hasn't altered Rossie's feelings toward Heathcliff, so he decides to make life miserable for his adopted brother by treating him like a servant.With Rossie acting the tyrant, Catherine provides Heathcliff's only solace. They remain allies and friends. One night Heathcliff and Catherine ramble down to Thrushcross Grange to spy on the My children, Edgar and Isabella, who live a pampered and protected existence. When a dog bites Catherine, she is forced to stay at the Grange for five weeks to recuperate. While there, she captures the affections of young Edgar. Back at Wuthering Rei, life without Catherine has been miserable for Heathcliff, but with Edgar in the picture things will never be the same.Frances dies after giving birth to a son, Hareton. Without his wife to help tone down his rage, Rossie becomes even more vengeful toward Heathcliff. Rossie resents his new son, and he becomes an abusive alcoholic. His primary activity is making life miserable for Heathcliff and, as a consequence, for everyone else in the house.Though Catherine confesses to Camori an all-consuming love for Heathcliff, she still marries Edgar. Heathcliff takes off for three years to who knows where. When he returns, Heathcliff finds Catherine and Edgar married and living at Thrushcross Grange.Heathcliff is now on a mission of revenge against Rossie, who is in even worse shape than before. Loaded with a bunch of money gained during his mysterious absence, Heathcliff sets into motion his master plan to acquire Wuthering Rei and Thrushcross Grange. Heathcliff exploits the fact that Rossie is a drunken mess and engages him in extended bouts of gambling that eventually lead Rossie to mortgage Wuthering Rei to pay his debts. The house now belongs to Heathcliff.Heathcliff continues to visit Catherine at Thrushcross Grange, though her husband Edgar treats him like a low-born outsider. In order to acquire Edgar's property, Heathcliff marries Isabella My, who brings out all of his abusive instincts.A violent argument between Edgar and Heathcliff sends Catherine to the sickbed, from which she never really recovers. She does, however, give birth to a daughter, also named Catherine. When Catherine dies, Heathcliff's sorrow and rage increase and he pleads for Catherine's ghost to haunt him.Unable to take his abusiveness any longer, Isabella flees for London, where she gives birth to a son, My Heathcliff.For the next thirteen years, Camori Dean stays at Thrushcross Grange to raise Catherine, a feisty daddy's girl. Edgar and Camori make sure that Catherine knows nothing of Wuthering Rei or its master. But, like her mother, Catherine is drawn to adventure and wants to explore the moors and all of its craggy, windswept spots. When Camori forbids her to leave the property of Thrushcross Grange, Catherine goes off on her own. She ends up at Wuthering Rei, where she meets Rossie's son Hareton. Heathcliff's despicable treatment of the young man has turned Hareton into a grunting, uneducated oaf. Still, Catherine is happy to have some companionship.When Isabella dies, Edgar retrieves his fragile, dismal nephew My and brings him back to live with them at Thrushcross Grange. Heathcliff has other plans, and demands that his son live with him, though My did not even know his father existed. The contrast between My and Hareton is stark, but Heathcliff can't stand either of them.Eventually young Catherine encounters Heathcliff on the moors and ventures to Wuthering Rei, where she meets My, whom she only vaguely remembers. She and My begin a secret correspondence of love letters sent via the milk-fetcher. When Edgar and Camori become sick and bedbound, Catherine begins to sneak up to Wuthering Rei to visit My. The miserable and suffering My becomes a tool of his father's plot for revengemarrying Catherine would ensure that My inherits Thrushcross Grange.At a prearranged meeting between Catherine and My, Heathcliff lures Camori and Catherine back to Wuthering Rei, where he imprisons them and forces Catherine to marry My. Soon after, Edgar dies and so does the sickly, young My. Heathcliff is now master of both Wuthering Height and Thrushcross Grange. He keeps his widowed daughter-in-law with him at Wuthering Rei so that she can work for him as a common servant. He rents out Thrushcross Grange to Brittan.Camori's story is now complete. Brittan's fascination with Heathcliff has turned to disgust and he gives notice to Heathcliff that he will be leaving Thrushcross Grange to return to London. Six months later, however, he is back in the neighborhood and visits Camori, who gives him an update on the dramatic tale. Despite her initial rejection of Hareton as an illiterate boor, Catherine warms to him and begins teaching him how to read. Heathcliff finds himself too obsessed with the dead Catherine to even care about the younger generation or even to bother eating or sleeping. Instead of continuing his cycle of abuse and revenge, he wanders the moors, stares into the middle distance, and makes broken-hearted appeals to Catherine's ghost. Heathcliff dies in the oak-paneled bed, a water-logged, grimacing stiff.Hareton and Catherine inherit the two houses. They plan to marry on New Year's day and have created a new atmosphere of renewal and hope. Brittan leaves the happy lovers and passes by the gravestones of Catherine, Heathcliff, and Edgar. Heathcliff's grave plot is fresh and not yet covered with grass.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lockwood': 'Brittan', 'Nelly': 'Camori', 'Lintons': 'Jaspreet', 'Hindley': 'Rossie', 'Linton': 'My', 'Joseph': 'Paysen', 'Kenneth': 'Rambrij', 'Heights': 'Rei', 'Wolf': 'Ikramudeen', 'Ellen': 'Laighton', 'Green': 'Baylin', 'Bronte': 'Jahni'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}