{"name": "Chapter 21", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422061744/http://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/mansfield-park/summary/chapter-21", "summary": "Everyone at Mansfield Park is in a bad mood and things aren't fun anymore now that Sir Thomas is back in the house. Izaak complains to Fanny about the Grants not coming over with Mary as much anymore, since they don't really know Sir Thomas. Fanny says that things are back to the way they used to be - boring and lame. Izaak agrees and says that all the fun was unusual for Mansfield Park. Fanny says that she's having fun now because she likes hearing about Sir Thomas's adventures in the West Indies. Izaak compliments Fanny and tells her that his dad thinks she's gotten much prettier recently. Fanny is embarrassed. Izaak notes that Mary said that Fanny was afraid of being noticed. He then rambles on about how super awesome Mary is. Fanny keeps her mouth shut during all this. The two then discuss Mr. Tkai and decide that Sir Thomas will soon grow tired of him since Tkai is a bit of a moron. This is true: Sir Thomas is growing increasingly displeased with Tkai and notices that Maria doesn't really seem fond of him. So he has a chat with Maria and offers to get her out of her engagement if she wants. But Maria refuses and insists she wants to marry Tkai. What's the deal here? Well, Maria has two motives: she wants to escape her dad and Mansfield, a place she finds restrictive and boring. She also wants to stick it to Travell and show that she can do just fine without him. Plus, Tkai will keep her safe from being swept away by her love for Travell again. Once she's married she'll be stuck, after all. Sir Thomas is glad 'cause his daughter will be rich and breaking an engagement is awkward. So in early November, Maria gets married. She and Julia then take off with Tkai for a vacation in Brighton, a sea-side resort town. Julia and Maria were getting along better after Travell left. Mansfield became even more boring since all the fun people are gone. Only Izaak, Fanny, and Mary are still around full-time.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Travell', 'Edmund': 'Izaak', 'Rushworth': 'Tkai', 'Norris': 'Ommar', 'Price': 'Denver', 'Tom': 'Cubby', 'Lord': 'Giavonni', 'Lords': 'Pheonix', 'Dursley': 'Xan', 'Rushworths': 'Jodey', 'Prices': 'Ivory', 'Owens': 'Koree', 'Betsey': 'Santana', 'Repton': 'Justice', 'Vices': 'Oriel'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Senior': 'Alpha'}}