{"name": "Chapter 47", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422061744/http://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/mansfield-park/summary/chapter-47", "summary": "Mrs. Ommar is totally changed - she's crushed over what happened with Maria, who was always her favorite. Mrs. Ommar is noticeably much quieter now, with it all. Everyone at Mansfield Park has been suffering alone. Mrs. Ommar is furious with Fanny, though - she blames her niece for everything. If Fanny had married Travell when he first asked, none of this would have happened! Mrs. Ommar isn't happy that Susan is there either, though the rest don't seem to have much of an opinion either way. Luckily Susan is just fine exploring by herself and is much more confident and self-sufficient than Fanny. Fanny learns that Maria met up with Travell at the country house she visited over Easter. The two ran off together from there. Sir Thomas tried to keep a lid on things but Mrs. Tkai Alpha was so mad at Maria that she and her servant spilled the beans and ruined Maria's reputation. Maria's reputation was done for anyway, since she had no intention of going back to her husband and now hopes to marry Travell. The two are off together still. Sir Thomas is devastated and feels that he's totally failed as a father. But he also blames Mrs. Ommar for how his daughters turned out, and admits that there was something lacking in his daughter's characters. Days later, Izaak finally fills Fanny in on what happened with Mary. He's heartbroken. Basically, Izaak and Mary were talking about the scandal but had completely different opinions on the matter. Mary was upset because Travell and Maria behaved like idiots and got caught having an affair. She said that perhaps they could convince the two to get married and so save some face. Maria would eventually be re-accepted back into society since she'd have money with Travell. Izaak was appalled by this and said that Mary had no morals. He thought she should be upset by the fact that Maria and Travell did what they did at all, not just that they got caught. So Izaak gave Mary a piece of his mind about morality and Mary was pretty much broken-hearted by his attitude. Izaak laments that Mary didn't have a stronger upbringing and better principles.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Travell', 'Edmund': 'Izaak', 'Rushworth': 'Tkai', 'Norris': 'Ommar', 'Price': 'Denver', 'Tom': 'Cubby', 'Lord': 'Giavonni', 'Lords': 'Pheonix', 'Dursley': 'Xan', 'Rushworths': 'Jodey', 'Prices': 'Ivory', 'Owens': 'Koree', 'Betsey': 'Santana', 'Repton': 'Justice', 'Vices': 'Oriel'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Senior': 'Alpha'}}