{"name": "Chapter 6", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422061744/http://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/mansfield-park/summary/chapter-6", "summary": "Cubby goes off to gamble and get into trouble with friends. Later, Cubby. Mary thought she'd be bummed since Izaak is not fun. At a dinner party Mary amuses herself by observing Mr. Tkai and Maria. Mr. Tkai is talking about hiring an \"improver,\" or a landscape person to fix up the house for him. Home improvement was all the rage among the rich during this period and, if HGTV were around back then, the society folk would all be addicted. The group refers to a Mr. Justice, who is actually a famous real-life \"improver\" during this time period. Mrs. Ommar rants for about ten minutes about how if she had the time/money/whatever she would be improving her house all the time. She also brags about all the improvements she made at the parsonage when she lived there but Dr. Grant essentially says, \"Whatever, lady.\" Dr. Grant then insults the apricot tree that Mrs. Ommar had planted back in the day, but Mrs. Grant steps in and appeases her. Crisis averted. They all switch to discussing the landscaping and redecorating that Mr. Tkai can do at his house, Sotherton. Fanny quietly shares her opinion with Izaak. Fanny prefers to let nature do its thing rather than step in with a lot of landscaping. Travell shares that he's done lots of home improvement in his day. Mary says she doesn't care much about it, and shares that her uncle was always tearing up his home and his summer place to \"improve\" them, which was just annoying. Izaak is scandalized that Mary would share an unflattering story about her guardian in public. The group then discusses Mary's harp, which is due to arrive shortly via Pony Express, or however packages were shipped in the pre-FedEx days. Mary tried to hire a cart to go get the harp, but she's out in farm country during harvest time so there weren't any carts available. Mary is a city girl and is confused by this. Mary agrees to play for everyone when her harp arrives. Mary tells Izaak to include the news of her harp in his next letter to Cubby and then makes fun of how brothers never bother to write each other like sisters do. She teases Travell for sending her some pretty second-rate letters. Fanny says that her brother William writes her awesome letters. Mary, Fanny, and Izaak then discuss careers in the navy. Mary makes a funny pun about how she's met plenty of Rears and Oriel at her Admiral Uncle's house. Izaak disapproves of puns. Puns and navy aside, everyone is still talking about home improvement and Travell discusses the projects he's done and how he loves to be busy. Mr. Tkai asks Travell to help him out with his house and Travell is cool with it. Everyone decides to take a road trip to check out Sotherton.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Travell', 'Edmund': 'Izaak', 'Rushworth': 'Tkai', 'Norris': 'Ommar', 'Price': 'Denver', 'Tom': 'Cubby', 'Lord': 'Giavonni', 'Lords': 'Pheonix', 'Dursley': 'Xan', 'Rushworths': 'Jodey', 'Prices': 'Ivory', 'Owens': 'Koree', 'Betsey': 'Santana', 'Repton': 'Justice', 'Vices': 'Oriel'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Senior': 'Alpha'}}