{"name": "Chapter 15", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422061744/http://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/mansfield-park/summary/chapter-15", "summary": "Mary accepts her part in the play and Mr. Tkai shows up for a part, too. Mr. Tkai gets distracted with his part and his costume and so doesn't notice what's going on between Maria and Travell right in front of him. Izaak pops in and learns what the play will be. He's really upset. Izaak pulls Maria aside and lectures her accordingly. Maria insists that the play isn't that bad, that they're cutting out the worst parts, and that Mary thinks it's cool to do regardless. Izaak counters that if everyone else is jumping off a cliff it doesn't mean she should too. Izaak would make a great dad in the universe of Happy Days. Lady Bertram chimes in and tells Maria to not do anything improper. Izaak insists their dad won't like it and Lady Bertram seems a little concerned. But Maria says that Julia will do the part if she refuses it and to just drop it already. Mrs. Ommar now chimes in and says that the play is an awesome idea and not a problem at all. She then brags about how helpful she's been. Izaak finally gives up. The Crawfords show up and the Mansfield Park Theater Club starts planning. Mary notices that they haven't cast her love interest in the play yet and it turns out they don't have an available guy for the role. Yates suggest they ask Izaak but Cubby refuses. Mary asks Izaak for his advice and he says to just change the play. She then tries to convince Izaak to act since the open part is a clergyman but Izaak bluntly refuses. Suddenly Cubby yells out for Fanny and says that they need her to play the part of an old woman. Fanny's horrified and refuses, saying she cannot act. This has some interesting double meanings. Cubby argues with her and Maria, Yates, and Travell join in. Mrs. Ommar then jumps in and tells Fanny to quit being difficult and just do the stupid part already. She tells Fanny that she's stubborn and ungrateful and implies that Fanny is somehow \"lesser\" than her cousins. Izaak is really angry at Mrs. Ommar - too angry to speak, really. Mary's horrified by how mean Mrs. Ommar is to Fanny and notes that Fanny is about to cry. Mary quickly goes over to consoles her and Fanny is grateful. Mary gets Fanny to tell her about William and Fanny starts to cheer up a little. The Mansfield Park Theater Club meanwhile decides that they'll just have to invite a neighbor over to play the role Izaak refused. Mary says a random neighbor is fine but she'd prefer a guy named Charles Maddox since she met him once before. Julia sarcastically observes that soon the whole neighborhood will be involved in the Theater Club. Mary confesses to Fanny that she's not really looking forward to the play now.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Travell', 'Edmund': 'Izaak', 'Rushworth': 'Tkai', 'Norris': 'Ommar', 'Price': 'Denver', 'Tom': 'Cubby', 'Lord': 'Giavonni', 'Lords': 'Pheonix', 'Dursley': 'Xan', 'Rushworths': 'Jodey', 'Prices': 'Ivory', 'Owens': 'Koree', 'Betsey': 'Santana', 'Repton': 'Justice', 'Vices': 'Oriel'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Senior': 'Alpha'}}