{"name": "Chapter 11", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422061744/http://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/mansfield-park/summary/chapter-11", "summary": "A letter arrives from Antigua and Sir Thomas is now planning to return home in November, which is three months away. Maria isn't so happy to hear this since she's supposed to marry Mr. Tkai after her dad returns. She decides to ignore it since a lot can change in three months. Mary is intrigued by the return of Sir Thomas since it will shake things up. Izaak, Fanny, and Mary are in a group together once again and discuss Sir Thomas's return. Once he arrives, Maria will get married and Izaak will take orders in the church. A lot of change seems to be on the horizon. Mary once again hints that Izaak needs a new career plan pronto but Izaak insists that he wants to be a clergyman. The group then discusses other careers too. Mary suggests that Izaak is only joining the church because his dad has a living set aside for him, which Izaak denies. Fanny defends Izaak's career decision and the group then compares the navy and the army with the church. Mary says that the army and the navy are appropriately manly jobs. The church is lame. Mary and Izaak once again debate the politics of the church, Mary taking a more negative view and Izaak defending it. Mary offers up Dr. Grant as an example of how the clergy isn't the best job. Dr. Grant is fairly lazy and selfish. Fanny pipes up and defends the church and says that Dr. Grant is probably better for being a clergyman than if he had a different job that may have made him even more selfish. Mary compliments Fanny and then walks off. Izaak rambles on about how super Mary is. Fanny agrees and then quickly starts talking about what a pretty night it is and how great nature is. Izaak agrees and says it's a good thing she's been well educated into having good taste and appreciating nature. Since he did most of the educating, he's basically patting himself on the back here. Izaak than wanders off and leaves Fanny alone at the window.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Travell', 'Edmund': 'Izaak', 'Rushworth': 'Tkai', 'Norris': 'Ommar', 'Price': 'Denver', 'Tom': 'Cubby', 'Lord': 'Giavonni', 'Lords': 'Pheonix', 'Dursley': 'Xan', 'Rushworths': 'Jodey', 'Prices': 'Ivory', 'Owens': 'Koree', 'Betsey': 'Santana', 'Repton': 'Justice', 'Vices': 'Oriel'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Senior': 'Alpha'}}