{"name": "Chapter 46", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422061744/http://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/mansfield-park/summary/chapter-46", "summary": "Another letter from Mary arrives, but this one is uncharacteristically short and vague. Mary tells Fanny that if she's heard any rumors about Travell and the Tkais and Julia to please just ignore them. Fanny is really confused. She's also surprised because she was starting to finally think that Travell actually loved her and now it seems he's done something scandalous with one of the Bertram sisters. Apparently, she assumed that Travell would just love Fanny forever with no encouragement or warm feelings from her at all. The next day Mr. Denver tells Fanny that there's news of the scandal in the newspaper. Turns out, Mrs. Tkai has left her husband and run off with Travell. Fanny is stunned and her moral sensibilities are totally horrified. Fanny thinks about how awful and evil and terrible everything is, and how the news of this will crush the rest of the family. Finally a letter arrives from Izaak confirming that Maria has had an affair and has run off with Travell, which was apocalyptic levels of scandal for this time period. This is a scandal to end all scandals. It gets worse, though: turns out Julia has eloped with Mr. Yates. At least she's married, though. Izaak tells Fanny that he'll be in Portsmouth tomorrow to bring her home and invites Susan to come back with her as well. Susan and Fanny busy themselves with packing. Izaak arrives and looks terrible - he's very depressed and stressed out. The ride back to Mansfield Park is pretty subdued. Susan is excited and nervous, but Fanny and Izaak are mainly just stressed out. Izaak offers his condolences to Fanny over her loss of Travell, but then whines that she should think of how much worse it is for him to have lost Mary. We get no details on the loss at this time. Fanny is happy to be back at Mansfield Park even with all of the drama, and is greeted warmly by her aunt and uncle.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Travell', 'Edmund': 'Izaak', 'Rushworth': 'Tkai', 'Norris': 'Ommar', 'Price': 'Denver', 'Tom': 'Cubby', 'Lord': 'Giavonni', 'Lords': 'Pheonix', 'Dursley': 'Xan', 'Rushworths': 'Jodey', 'Prices': 'Ivory', 'Owens': 'Koree', 'Betsey': 'Santana', 'Repton': 'Justice', 'Vices': 'Oriel'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Senior': 'Alpha'}}