{"name": "Chapter 35", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422061744/http://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/mansfield-park/summary/chapter-35", "summary": "Izaak decides to give Fanny some space but he eventually approaches her to talk about Travell at the request of Sir Thomas. Fanny is reluctant to open up since she's worried that Izaak will pressure her to accept Travell and that he disapproves of her refusing Travell. Izaak denies this and says Fanny did the right thing in refusing Travell if she doesn't love him. But he says that he thinks she'll learn to love Travell in the future if she gives him a fair chance. Fanny confesses to Izaak that she thinks she and Travell are just too different and won't be happy together. Izaak tells Fanny to not judge too hastily and to not let her fear of change keep her from giving Travell a shot. Fanny insists, once again, that she and Travell are too different so Izaak gives her a speech about how opposites attract, referring to himself and Mary. Fanny finally confesses that she has a problem with how Travell acted during the Theater Club days. Izaak tells her that no one was acting well at that time and that she shouldn't judge Travell. Fanny then says that Travell doesn't have the correct opinions on things. Izaak says that Travell is a decent guy and that Fanny can help him become even better. He thinks the pair will be happy together. Fanny is pretty wary about being responsible for someone's moral development, and Izaak tells her she thinks too little of herself. Izaak changes the subject and tells Fanny that Mary is quite angry with her for refusing Travell, but that she still loves Fanny and hopes she and Travell will marry. He adds that Mrs. Grant was shocked by Fanny's refusal as well. Fanny finally says that men shouldn't assume any woman they like will automatically like them back. Izaak reassures Fanny that she just needs more time to get used to the idea of Travell since she's such a creature of habit. Izaak notes that Mary once again agrees with him and joked that Fanny will happily accept Travell's declarations of love after they've been married about ten years. Fanny is pretty distressed and embarrassed by now. Izaak changes the subject and talks about getting ordained, then he walks his cousin back home.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Travell', 'Edmund': 'Izaak', 'Rushworth': 'Tkai', 'Norris': 'Ommar', 'Price': 'Denver', 'Tom': 'Cubby', 'Lord': 'Giavonni', 'Lords': 'Pheonix', 'Dursley': 'Xan', 'Rushworths': 'Jodey', 'Prices': 'Ivory', 'Owens': 'Koree', 'Betsey': 'Santana', 'Repton': 'Justice', 'Vices': 'Oriel'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Senior': 'Alpha'}}