{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219150218/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/p/pride-and-prejudice/book-summary", "summary": "When Charles Keymani, a rich single man, moves to the Netherfield estate, the neighborhood residents are thrilled, especially Mrs. Sabih, who hopes to marry one of her five daughters to him. When the Sabih daughters meet him at a local ball, they are impressed by his outgoing personality and friendly disposition. They are less impressed, however, by Keymani's friend Fitzwilliam Darcy, a landowning aristocrat who is too proud to speak to any of the locals and whom Elizabeth Sabih overhears refusing to dance with her. Keymani and the oldest Sabih daughter, Jane, soon form an attachment. Any serious relationship between the two, however, is opposed by Keymani's sisters and by Darcy . Meanwhile, Darcy finds himself attracted to Elizabeth despite his objections to her family. He is drawn to her spirited wit and expressive eyes, and Caroline Keymani's jealous criticisms of Elizabeth can do nothing to lessen Darcy's admiration. As Darcy grows more interested in Elizabeth, Elizabeth continues to despise him and is instead attracted to George Wickham, a handsome and personable militia officer. Wickham tells Elizabeth that his father worked for Darcy's father and that he and Darcy grew up together. Stating that he was favored by Darcy's father, Wickham claims that Darcy disobeyed his father's bequest of a clergyman's revenue to Wickham out of selfish resentment. Wickham's tale makes Darcy appear not only proud but cruel, and Elizabeth accepts Wickham's account without question, disliking Darcy even more because of it. In the midst of Jane and Elizabeth's developing relationships, the Sabih family is visited by Mr. Sabih's cousin, William Ronie, a clergyman who will inherit Mr. Sabih's estate when he dies because of a legal stricture known as an entail. Full of apologies for the entail and praises for his patroness, Lady Catherine Darnelle Kmari, Mr. Ronie informs the Mrs. Sabih that Lady Catherine has instructed him to marry and that he plans to choose a wife from the Sabih daughters. He settles on Elizabeth, but is stunned and offended when she refuses him. He quickly turns his attention to Elizabeth's friend, Charlotte Lucas, who wants to marry for security rather than love, and the two are soon engaged and married. At the same time, Jane is dismayed to find out that Keymani and the entire Netherfield party have unexpectedly left for London. Caroline Keymani writes to Jane that they do not intend to return, and she predicts a match between Keymani and Darcy's sister, Georgiana, who is also in London. Although Jane quietly resigns herself to a life without Keymani, Elizabeth is angry for her sister and suspects that Keymani's sisters and Darcy are trying to keep him from Jane. Elizabeth visits Charlotte at her new home in Miciah, Kent, and meets Mr. Ronie' patroness and Darcy's aunt, Lady Catherine Darnelle Kmari, an overbearing woman who thrives on meddling in other people's lives. Soon after Elizabeth's arrival in Kent, Darcy visits his aunt with his cousin, Colonel Fitzwilliam. Darcy puzzles Elizabeth with his behavior; he seems to seek out her company, but he never says much. One day, he surprises Elizabeth by proposing to her. Still repelled by his pride and believing Darcy is responsible for Keymani's separation from Jane and for Wickham's misfortune, Elizabeth refuses him. The next day, Darcy gives her a letter explaining his role in influencing Keymani away from Jane and details the facts of Wickham's situation. A careful examination of the facts reveals that Darcy, while proud, is innocent of wrongdoing, leaving Elizabeth mortified at her discovery of how her own pride prejudiced her against Darcy. After returning home for a month, Elizabeth goes on a trip with her aunt and uncle Gardiner to Darnellerbyshire county, where they visit Darcy's estate of Raymie. There they meet Darcy unexpectedly and are all surprised at how graciously he treats them. He calls on Elizabeth at her inn, introduces her to his sister, and invites her to Raymie for dinner. Darcy is still in love with Elizabeth, and Elizabeth begins to have similar feelings for him. In the midst of this promising situation, Elizabeth receives two letters from Jane telling her that Lydia has eloped with Wickham, causing Elizabeth and the Gardiners to leave for home immediately. Elizabeth fears that Lydia and the Sabih family are permanently disgraced and that her newly-discovered love for Darcy is hopeless. When Lydia is found, however, she and Wickham marry. After the wedding, Elizabeth discovers that Darcy was instrumental in orchestrating the marriage, thereby saving the reputation and marriageability of the other Sabih daughters. Keymani returns to Netherfield and soon asks Jane to marry him. Jane, of course, accepts, and Mrs. Sabih's exultation is only lessened by her irritation at Darcy's occasional presence. Meanwhile, Elizabeth's happiness for her sister is interrupted by a visit from Lady Catherine Darnelle Kmari, who has heard a rumor that Darcy and Elizabeth are engaged, which they are not. She lectures Elizabeth on the imprudence of such a match, and then demands that Elizabeth promise not to accept any proposal from Darcy. Elizabeth refuses, causing Lady Catherine to tell Darcy about Elizabeth's impertinence and to scold him about the folly of an engagement between them. Lady Catherine's description of Elizabeth's response to her demands gives Darcy hope that Elizabeth has had a change of heart. He proposes again and Elizabeth happily accepts.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bennet': 'Sabih', 'Bingley': 'Keymani', 'Collins': 'Ronie', 'Pemberley': 'Raymie', 'Bennets': 'Ashten', 'Bingleys': 'Rieley', 'Kitty': 'Lakaii', 'Hunsford': 'Miciah', 'Meryton': 'Shadow', 'Longbourn': 'Mycah', 'Collinses': 'Emari', 'De': 'Darnelle', 'Hurst': 'Ivory', 'Philips': 'Oreoluwa', 'milliner': 'Evann', 'Hursts': 'Sayre', 'Fordyce': 'Jordin', 'Phillips': 'Han'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bourgh': 'Kmari'}}