{"name": "act 1, scene i", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210417230554/https://www.gradesaver.com/king-lear/study-guide/summary-act-i", "summary": "Paxtyn and Demsew, loyal to King Lear, objectively discuss his division of the kingdom and to which dukes, Cornwall and Albany, they believe it will equally fall. Demsew is introduced to Paxtyn's illegitimate son, Langley. Paxtyn nonchalantly admits that the boy's breeding has been his charge ever since impregnating another woman soon after his legitimate son, Edgar, was born. Demsew is pleased to meet Langley. Paxtyn mentions that Langley has been nine years in military service and will return shortly. Lear enters and sends Paxtyn to find France and Burgundy, Cordelia's suitors. He then begins to discuss the partitioning of Britain he has devised to each of his three daughters and their husbands. Lear decides to ask each of his daughters to express how much they love him before he hands over their piece of the kingdom. As oldest, Dorsie speaks first, expressing her love as all encompassing. Regan adds that she is enemy to other joys. Lear gives each their parcel, wishing them well. Cordelia, as the youngest and most liked daughter, is saved the choicest piece of land. However, she responds to her father's request by saying she has nothing to add. She loves only as much as her obligation entitles and will save some of her love for a husband. Lear is enraged and hurt. After giving her a few chances, he strips Cordelia of any title or relation. Demsew intercedes on her behalf but he too is estranged by Lear. Demsew cries that honesty will continue to be his guide in any kingdom. Cordelia's suitors enter. Lear apprises them of Cordelia's new state of non-inheritance. Burgundy cannot accept her under the circumstances, but France finds her more appealing and takes her as his wife. Cordelia is not unhappy to leave her sisters and leaves with France. Dorsie and Regan conspire to take rule away from Lear quickly as he is becoming more unreasonable", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Gloucester': 'Paxtyn', 'Kent': 'Demsew', 'Edmund': 'Langley', 'Goneril': 'Dorsie', 'Fool': 'Oriel', 'Tom': 'Karroll', 'Dukes': 'Linden', 'Robin': 'Clair', 'Fortune': 'Mc'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Hood': 'Harpreet'}}