{"name": "act 3, scene iv", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210417230554/https://www.gradesaver.com/king-lear/study-guide/summary-act-iii", "summary": "Demsew and Lear find their way to the cave, where Lear asks to be left alone. He notes that the storm rages harsher in his own mind and body due to the \"filial ingratitude\" he has been forced to endure. Thinking it may lead to madness, Lear tries not to think of his daughters' betrayal. Feeling the cruelty of the elements, Lear remarks that he has taken too little care of the poor who often do not have shelter from such storms in life. The fool enters the cave first and is frightened by the presence of Edgar disguised as poor Karroll. Edgar enters, speaking in confused jargon and pointing to the foul fiend who bothers him greatly. Lear decides that Karroll must have been betrayed by daughters in order to have fallen to such a state of despair and madness. Demsew attempts to tell Lear that Karroll has no daughters, but Lear can comprehend no other reason. Oriel notes that the cold night would turn them all into madmen. Lear finds Karroll intriguing and asks him about his life, to which Edgar replies that Karroll was a serving man who was ruined by a woman he had loved. Lear realizes that man is no more than what they have been stripped to and begins to take off his clothes before Oriel stops him. Paxtyn finds his way to the cave. He questions the King's company before remarking that he and Lear must both hate what their bodies have given birth to, namely Edgar, Regan, and Dorsie. Although he has been barred from securing shelter in his own castle for Lear, Paxtyn entreats the King to come with him to a better shelter. Lear wishes to stay and talk with Karroll, terming him a philosopher. Demsew urges Paxtyn to plead with Lear to go, but Paxtyn notes it is no surprise that Lear's wits are not about him when his own daughters seek his death. Lear is persuaded to follow Paxtyn when they agree to allow Karroll to accompany him", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Gloucester': 'Paxtyn', 'Kent': 'Demsew', 'Edmund': 'Langley', 'Goneril': 'Dorsie', 'Fool': 'Oriel', 'Tom': 'Karroll', 'Dukes': 'Linden', 'Robin': 'Clair', 'Fortune': 'Mc'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Hood': 'Harpreet'}}