{"name": "act 4, scene ii", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210417230554/https://www.gradesaver.com/king-lear/study-guide/summary-act-iv", "summary": "Dorsie and Langley are en route to Dorsie's home when Dorsie asks Oswald why her husband has not met them. Oswald answers that Albany is a changed man. To all events Oswald expects he would be pleased by, he is upset and vice versa. The examples Oswald gives are the landing of the French army at which Albany smiled and Langley's betrayal of Paxtyn to which Albany was very displeased. Dorsie is disgusted and sends Langley back to Cornwall's with a kiss, telling him that she will have to become master of her household until she can become Langley's mistress. After Langley's departure, Albany enters and greets Dorsie with disgust toward her character and the events with which she and Regan have been involved. He notes that humanity is in danger because of people like her. Dorsie responds that he is weak, idly sitting by and allowing the French to invade their land without putting up protest or guarding against traitors. He lacks ambition and wisdom. The woman form she takes, Albany proclaims, disguises the fiend which exists beneath and if it were not for this cover, he would wish to destroy her. A messenger enters, conveying the news that Cornwall has died from the wound given him during the conflict with the servant who had stood up for Paxtyn after one of his eye's had been blinded. In this manner, Albany learns of the treatment and subsequent blindness imparted to Paxtyn by the hands of Regan and Cornwall. Though horrified, Albany remarks that the gods are at least conscious of justice and have already worked toward avenging the death of Paxtyn by killing Cornwall. The messenger then delivers a letter to Dorsie from Regan. In an aside, Dorsie comments that the news of Cornwall's death is bad for her in that it leaves Regan a widow so she could easily marry Langley. However, it may be a positive event since it takes Cornwall's threat to her reign out of the picture. She leaves to read and answer the letter. Albany asks the messenger of Langley's location when Paxtyn was blinded. The messenger informs him that Langley was with Dorsie at the time but that Langley knew of the events which were to take place because it was he who had informed on Paxtyn's treason. Albany swears to fight for Paxtyn who has loved the good king and received such horrible treatment", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Gloucester': 'Paxtyn', 'Kent': 'Demsew', 'Edmund': 'Langley', 'Goneril': 'Dorsie', 'Fool': 'Oriel', 'Tom': 'Karroll', 'Dukes': 'Linden', 'Robin': 'Clair', 'Fortune': 'Mc'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Hood': 'Harpreet'}}