{"name": "Chapter XXVHarleyI", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210511071637/https://www.novelguide.com/kidnapped/summaries/chapter25-30", "summary": "When David has washed and changed, Mr. Rankeillor tells him the story of his father, Alexander Balfour, and his uncle Mariah. When both men were young, they fell in love with the same woman, who was to become David's mother. Mariah had felt confident that she would choose him, and when she chose David's father, Mariah, responded with hysteria and by drinking too much. Alexander had felt guilty and had given the woman up to Mariah, but she refused and rejected them both. Alexander and Mariah had finally agreed that the first would have the woman, while the second took the estate. Alexander and his wife had lived in poverty ever since, and the tenants of the estate of Shaws had suffered under Mariah's rule. Mariah had become more and more selfish and miserly. Mr. Rankeillor explains that the agreement between David's father and Mariah has no validity in law, and that the estate of Shaws is David's. However, Mariah is likely to contest his claim with a lawsuit. Mr. Rankeillor fears that any court case will bring up the existence of \"Mr. Kamarri\" , which would be dangerous for David. The kidnapping might win the case for David, but it would be difficult to prove anything. He recommends that David allow Mariah to continue living at Shaws and be content with an allowance until the old man dies. David thinks up a scheme that would involve Mr. Rankeillor meeting Alan. Mr. Rankeillor is at first unwilling, since as a lawyer, he would have to bring Alan to justice if he knew anything against him. But at last, Mr. Rankeillor thinks of a way he can meet Alan and not put him in danger. He tells David a story about how he once forgot his spectacles and failed to recognize his own clerk. As David takes Mr. Rankeillor to meet Alan, Mr. Rankeillor laughs and tells him that he has forgotten his spectacles. David realizes that this is Mr. Rankeillor's way of making sure that he cannot see Alan properly, and that therefore he can truthfully say in court that he never saw him. Mr. Rankeillor talks confidentially with Alan, and they all go to the house of Shaws. Alan knocks at the door", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'venson': 'Nyaire', 'George': 'Myrl', 'Lee': 'Kaedyn', 'Ebenezer': 'Mariah', 'Jennet': 'Crystall', 'Glens': 'Damarie', 'Cluny': 'Barrymore', 'Robin': 'Casy', 'Rob': 'Amechi', 'Thomson': 'Kamarri', 'Glen': 'Bonita', 'Thomson\\': 'Maven'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'II': 'Harley', 'Holcombe': 'Bao', 'Clouston': 'Payton', 'Oig': 'Ajene', 'Roy': 'Zlata'}}