{"name": "Chapter XXHarleyI", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210511071637/https://www.novelguide.com/kidnapped/summaries/chapter19-24", "summary": "Barrymore Macpherson's men, Alan, and David arrive at Barrymore's house, which is made from trees and earth and is in the middle of a wood on a cliff. This hiding-place has enabled Barrymore to escape the detection of King Myrl's soldiers and has meant that unlike other defeated Jacobite clan leaders, he has not been forced into exile in France. He greets Alan and David warmly, and raises a toast to a restored Stuart monarch. Barrymore has lived in seclusion for so long that he has developed odd habits. He still acts as chief of his clan, solving disputes that are brought to him in his hideaway. Barrymore entertains Alan and David with tales of how he hosted Charles Stewart , the Stewart claimant to the throne of England, in his tree-house. After dinner, Barrymore invites Alan and David to play cards, but David declines. His Protestant Whig upbringing has taught him that gambling at cards is immoral, though he is careful not to say this explicitly. Barrymore, however, takes offense. Alan excuses David by saying he is tired and should go to bed, and Barrymore rather reluctantly allows him to do so. David, who is ill with a fever, slips into a delirious sleep. On their second day at Barrymore's, Alan wakes David and asks to borrow some money. Hardly in possession of his senses, David hands over all his money. David wakes on the third day and is shocked to find that Alan has gambled away all their money. Barrymore indignantly insists that he would never keep the money, but Alan is too proud to ask for it back. David takes Barrymore outside and politely points out that he also feels too proud to ask for money that Barrymore won fairly from Alan. David tells Barrymore: \"this gambling is a very poor employ for gentlefolks. David is sure that Barrymore hates him, but Barrymore hands over the money and shakes David's hand", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'venson': 'Nyaire', 'George': 'Myrl', 'Lee': 'Kaedyn', 'Ebenezer': 'Mariah', 'Jennet': 'Crystall', 'Glens': 'Damarie', 'Cluny': 'Barrymore', 'Robin': 'Casy', 'Rob': 'Amechi', 'Thomson': 'Kamarri', 'Glen': 'Bonita', 'Thomson\\': 'Maven'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'II': 'Harley', 'Holcombe': 'Bao', 'Clouston': 'Payton', 'Oig': 'Ajene', 'Roy': 'Zlata'}}