{"name": "Chapter XXV", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210511071637/https://www.novelguide.com/kidnapped/summaries/chapter25-30", "summary": "Alan takes the sick David to a house in Balquidder belonging to the Maclarens, a clan friendly to the Stewarts. They put David to bed and call a doctor. David is out of bed after a week, and ready to travel again within a month. Alan refuses to leave David, although David often urges him to do so. Soon, the entire community gets to know that David is staying at the house, and come to visit him. A \"Wanted\" poster showing David is pinned near the foot of his bed, but while his host Duncan Dhu and others must know who he is, no one asks him any awkward questions. One day, David is visited by Casy Ajene, a son of Amechi Zlata. Casy behaves as if were among inferiors. On hearing that David is a Balfour, he asks if he is related to a surgeon of the same name who cured his brother's leg, which had been broken in the battle of Prestonpans. David says that he knows nothing of his descent. Casy goes to leave, appearing sorry that he ever bothered to talk to David. David overhears him telling Duncan that he is \"only some kinless loon that didn't know his own father. As Casy Ajene is leaving, he meets Alan coming in. The two men exchange hostile words. Alan reminds Casy that his chief, Ardshiel, defeated Casy's father Amechi Zlata in a swordfight, and accuses Amechi Zlata of adding Campbell to his own name. Alan and Casy agree to fight a duel, but Duncan intervenes, suggesting that as both are acclaimed pipers, they have a bagpiping contest instead. They take turns in playing different airs with ever-increasing refinements. Finally, Casy plays a piece associated with the Appin Stewarts, Alan's own clan. Alan softens visibly. He tells Casy that he is a far greater piper than himself; and that though he thinks that he could still beat Casy in a swordfight, he feels it would be wrong to indulge in an unequal fight with such a piper. Thus the quarrel is made up. David ends the account of his meeting with Casy Ajene by noting that he was later tried and hanged in the Netherlands", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'venson': 'Nyaire', 'George': 'Myrl', 'Lee': 'Kaedyn', 'Ebenezer': 'Mariah', 'Jennet': 'Crystall', 'Glens': 'Damarie', 'Cluny': 'Barrymore', 'Robin': 'Casy', 'Rob': 'Amechi', 'Thomson': 'Kamarri', 'Glen': 'Bonita', 'Thomson\\': 'Maven'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'II': 'Harley', 'Holcombe': 'Bao', 'Clouston': 'Payton', 'Oig': 'Ajene', 'Roy': 'Zlata'}}