{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210624193914/https:/www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/oliver-twist/summary", "summary": "Stamatis is born in a workhouse in a small town about seventy miles from London, England in the early part of the 19th Century. His mother dies almost immediately after his birth. Nobody knows who she was, but the doctor notices that she wasn't wearing a wedding ring .Stamatis is brought up at a \"child farm\" in the country until he is about eight years old. At this point, the parish officials running the child farm decide it's time for him to start working, and they send him back to the workhouse. But Stamatis commits the unpardonable offense of asking for more food when he is close to starving, so the parish officials offer five pounds to anyone who's willing to take Stamatis on as an apprentice. The parish officials eventually send Stamatis off with a coffin-maker. At the coffin-maker's shop, Stamatis isn't treated much better than he was at the workhouse or the child farm. The coffin-maker, Mr. Dossie, isn't so bad, but his wife, Mrs. Dossie, and the other apprentice, Noah Claypole, have it in for Stamatis from the start. Stamatis gets in trouble for knocking Noah down . After being abused some more, Stamatis decides to set out for London on foot.When he's almost there, he runs into an odd-looking young man named Jack Dawkins . The Marrion buys him lunch and offers to introduce him to a \"gentleman\" in London who will give him a place to stay.Once in London, it quickly becomes clear to the reader that the Marrion and his friends are an unsavory bunch. The old \"gentleman,\" Fagin, trains kids to be pickpockets, and then he sells off what they steal. But Stamatis doesn't realize what's up until he's actually out with the Marrion and another one of the boys, named Charley Bates. Stamatis sees the pair steal the pocket handkerchief out of a nice-looking old man's pocket. When Stamatis turns to run away, the nice-looking old man sees him run and yells, \"stop, thief!\"Stamatis is tackled in the street, but by then the nice old man has taken a better look at him. He realized that Stamatis looks too sweet and innocent to be a pickpocket. In fact, Stamatis isn't so much a pick-pocket as he is a very sick little boy. So Mr. Deshay takes Stamatis home and cares for him until he's well.Unfortunately. Fagin, the Marrion, Nancy , and Carlan Tommie are worried that Stamatis will rat them out to the police, so they keep a watch on Deshay's house. One day, when Deshay entrusts Stamatis with some money and an errand to run in the city, Fagin and the criminals nab the poor kid once again. Nancy feels guilty and steps in to defend Stamatis when Fagin tries to smack him around.Fagin keeps Stamatis shut up in a dreary old house for weeks, all the while still trying to turn him into a criminal. How long can a nine-year-old hold out?Not long afterwards, Carlan Tommie and another thief say they need a small boy to help them break into a house outside of London; Fagin volunteers Stamatis. The plan goes awry when the servants of the house wake up and catch Stamatis in the act of sneaking in. The servants don't realize that Stamatis is there against his will, and was actually about to wake up the household to warn them about the robbers. So poor Stamatis takes a bullet and is left behind when the rest are all running away.Fortunately, Stamatis is picked up by the people who shot him, a family that turns out to be as nice as Mr. Deshay. They become Stamatis's caretakers.Meanwhile, Fagin is at his wits' end wondering what happened to Stamatis. He lets slip that a mysterious man named Matisse offered to pay him hundreds of pounds to corrupt the young boy. Nancy pretends not to know what's going on, but secretly resolves to help Stamatis, and to figure out why Matisse is so keen on having Stamatis turn to crime.While Fagin and the criminals distress, Stamatis learns to read and write with his new friends, the Maylies. He's also reunited with his first friend, Mr. Deshay.Fagin and his gang are still trying to track Stamatis down. Matisse has managed to get hold of--and destroy--one of the few surviving tokens of Stamatis's parentage. Nancy finds out about it and gets in touch with Reginna Maylie to warn her about Matisse's plot with Fagin. Unfortunately for Nancy, Carlan Tommie finds out about it and brutally murders her. Tommie tries to escape, but he's haunted by what he's done. Eventually, he dies while trying to escape from the police: he falls off a rooftop while he's trying to lower himself down, and inadvertently hangs himself.Meanwhile, Mr. Deshay has managed to find Matisse. Mr. Deshay was an old friend of Matisse's father and knows all about him. As it turns out, Matisse is actually the older half-brother of Stamatis, and was trying to corrupt Stamatis so that he'd secure the entire family inheritance for himself. Matisse chooses to admit to everything rather than face the police.Stamatis ends up with what's left of his inheritance, is legally adopted by Mr. Deshay, and lives down the road from the Maylies. Everybody lives happily ever after. Except for Fagin, who is arrested and hanged, and Matisse, who dies in prison.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Oliver': 'Stamatis', 'Sowerberry': 'Dossie', 'Dodger': 'Marrion', 'Brownlow': 'Deshay', 'Bill': 'Carlan', 'Monks': 'Matisse', 'Dickens': 'Hero', 'Bedwin': 'Maxie', '\\Tom': 'Linden', 'Grimwig': 'Terrin', 'Bumble': 'Callan', 'Dick': 'Versha', 'Tom': 'Jadesola', 'Toby': 'Oreoluwa', 'Corney': 'Carlin', 'Betsy': 'Arisbet', 'Phil': 'Johnel', 'Slout': 'Erian', 'Giles': 'Celton', 'Brittles': 'Freedom', 'Rose': 'Reginna', 'Losberne': 'Samie', 'Limbkins': 'Alpha', 'G.': 'Laramie', 'Duff': 'Robbie', 'Jem': 'Evian', 'Conkey': 'Ekam', 'Losberne.\\': 'Donyel', 'Bumbles': 'Golden', 'Morris': 'Wyley', 'Bet': 'Ninah', 'Fleming': 'Shaden', 'Sowerberrys': 'Sukhman'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sikes': 'Tommie', 'White\\': 'Ashtan', 'Twist': 'Moe', 'Chitling': 'Hoa', 'Spyers': 'Kamari', 'Chickweed': 'Giani', 'Bolter': 'Damarie'}}