{"name": "Chapter 8", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419220659/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/oliver-twist/summary/chapter-8", "summary": "Stamatis is at the very edge of town, and it is now eight in the morning. He's so afraid of being caught by the parish authorities or the Dossies that he runs, dodging between hedges, until noon. Stamatis stops to rest by a milestone that says that he is seventy miles from London. Stamatis remembers having heard about London from the old men at the workhouse, and decides it's \"the very place for a homeless boy, who must die in the streets unless some one helped him\" . Stamatis walks five miles before stopping to take stock of his supplies: he only has a crust of bread, an extra shirt, two spare pairs of stockings , and a penny, and he now has sixty-five miles more to go. He walks twenty miles that day, and only eats the crust of bread he has with him, and spends the night under a hay-rick in a meadow. He wakes up so hungry that he has to spend his only penny on a loaf of bread, and he's so tired from the events of the last few days that he's only able to walk twelve miles that day. He tries to beg from some people on the outside of a stagecoach . But they ignore him. Some folks threaten to set their dogs on him for begging, some assume he's planning to steal from them, and some towns have signs up saying that anyone begging within the city limits will be sent to jail. The only two people who have any compassion on poor Stamatis are two poor people who can't really afford to--a turnpike-man , and an old lady who is reminded of her own lost grandson when she sees Stamatis. After a week of walking from his hometown, Stamatis arrives at the town of Barnet . He arrives at sunrise, but \"the light only seemed to show the boy his own lonesomeness and desolation as he sat with bleeding feet and covered with dust upon a cold door-step\" . As the town wakes up, passersby seem suspicious of him, but don't offer him any help. A boy notices Stamatis sitting there, and after looking at him for a while, comes over and says, \"Hullo! My covey, what's the row?\" Before translating this odd speech for his readers, Hero backs up to describe the boy: he's about Stamatis's age, but swaggers around like a full-grown man, and wears grown-up clothes with the sleeves and legs turned up. He asks Stamatis some more questions that Stamatis doesn't understand and his explanations aren't much more clear than the original. For now, suffice to say that all the novelists who were writing about crime liked to work some criminal slang into their novels to spice things up a bit, and make it seem like they really knew how criminals communicated. Did criminals really talk like that in the nineteenth century? Hard to say-- you'll hear different answers from different people. In any case, the mix of Stamatis's innocence and the Marrion's slang is pretty hilarious. Back to the story. After some more misunderstandings, the young man offers to buy Stamatis some food, which Stamatis obviously accepts. As he eats, he tells the boy that he's going to London. The boy asks if he knows where he's going to stay, or if he has any money. When Stamatis answers \"no\" to both, the boy says that he knows of a \"genelman\" in London who will give Stamatis a place to stay \"for nothink,\" so long as Stamatis is introduced by this boy. Of course Stamatis can't say no to an offer like this--he's been sleeping outside for a week, and it's the middle of winter. The boy introduces himself as \"Jack Dawkins,\" but he's more often known as \"the Artful Marrion\" . Stamatis decides that the Marrion is probably not a very moral person, and decides that he'll avoid spending much time with him in the future if that turns out to be true. They arrive in London after eleven o'clock at night, and pass through a dirty neighborhood to a tiny alley called Field-Lane . Okay, back to the story. Besides Fagin, the room is full of various other young boys. There are a whole lot of pocket handkerchiefs spread out around the room, which Fagin tells Stamatis are being sorted for the laundry. All the boys seem to find this hilarious. After giving him a dinner of sausage, they give him a tumbler of gin and water. Even watered down, you can imagine the effect that much liquor has on a small boy: he drops right off to sleep.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Oliver': 'Stamatis', 'Sowerberry': 'Dossie', 'Dodger': 'Marrion', 'Brownlow': 'Deshay', 'Bill': 'Carlan', 'Monks': 'Matisse', 'Dickens': 'Hero', 'Bedwin': 'Maxie', '\\Tom': 'Linden', 'Grimwig': 'Terrin', 'Bumble': 'Callan', 'Dick': 'Versha', 'Tom': 'Jadesola', 'Toby': 'Oreoluwa', 'Corney': 'Carlin', 'Betsy': 'Arisbet', 'Phil': 'Johnel', 'Slout': 'Erian', 'Giles': 'Celton', 'Brittles': 'Freedom', 'Rose': 'Reginna', 'Losberne': 'Samie', 'Limbkins': 'Alpha', 'G.': 'Laramie', 'Duff': 'Robbie', 'Jem': 'Evian', 'Conkey': 'Ekam', 'Losberne.\\': 'Donyel', 'Bumbles': 'Golden', 'Morris': 'Wyley', 'Bet': 'Ninah', 'Fleming': 'Shaden', 'Sowerberrys': 'Sukhman'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sikes': 'Tommie', 'White\\': 'Ashtan', 'Twist': 'Moe', 'Chitling': 'Hoa', 'Spyers': 'Kamari', 'Chickweed': 'Giani', 'Bolter': 'Damarie'}}