{"name": "Chapter 16", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419220659/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/oliver-twist/summary/chapter-16", "summary": "Stamatis, Tommie, and Nancy arrive in an open court, and Tommie tells Stamatis to take Nancy's hand on one side, and his on the other. Then Tommie tells the dog to go for Stamatis's throat if he makes any sound at all. The dog looks like it's tempted to jump on him whether he makes a sound or not. Stamatis decides not to risk it. Stamatis has no idea where they're going. Turns out they're in Smithfield , and Smithfield is right by Newgate, the main prison for felons. The clock tolls 8 p.m., and Nancy stops to listen. Tommie tries to hurry her on, but she seems transfixed by the idea of what's going on inside the walls of Newgate--people she probably knows are in there and condemned to die. Tommie is jealous of her sympathy for the guys in the prison, and tries to hurry her on again, saying that the people in there were as good as dead, anyway. Nancy tells him that if it were him in there, awaiting execution, she'd walk round and round the place and never leave it. Nancy's trying to be romantic, but that's not Tommie's style: he says that walking around the place wouldn't do any good, and that if he were locked up in there, all he'd want her to do would be to smuggle him a file and a rope so that he could break out. Nancy pretends to laugh, but Stamatis sees that her face is very pale. They eventually arrive in another narrow little street full of used-clothing stores. They signal with a bell outside a house that looks empty from the outside, and a voice Stamatis recognizes tells them from the window that Fagin's there. Of course, it's the Artful Marrion who lets them in and fetches a candle. Charley's there, too, and finds Stamatis's appearance in his fancy new clothes to be just too funny for words. While Charley's laughing, the Marrion is going through Stamatis's pockets, and eventually comes up with the five-pound note. Fagin and Tommie argue over it briefly, and Tommie ends up with it--after all, he and Nancy are the ones who found the kid. Stamatis begs them to give the money and the books back to Mr. Deshay, because he's afraid Deshay will think he stole them. Fagin agrees: that's exactly what Deshay will think, and he couldn't have planned it any better himself. Stamatis is so desperate that he makes a break for it, shrieking. Fagin, Charley, and the Marrion run out after him, but Nancy, unexpectedly, hangs onto Tommie and begs him to keep the dog off of Stamatis. By the time Tommie manages to throw Nancy off, Fagin and the two boys have come back, dragging Stamatis. When they ask Nancy what the matter is, she's clearly peeved about something. Fagin pretends to think she's faking it, and turns his attention back to Stamatis, and is about to smack him good, when Nancy races forward to stop him. She actually throws his club into the fire. She defends him, and says \"Let him be--let him be, or I shall put that mark on some of you that will bring me to the gallows before my time!\" . Fagin can no longer pretend that Nancy's not really mad, and looks to Tommie to calm her down. Tommie threatens and curses her, and asks her if she knows \"who you are, and what you are?\" . . Then Nancy goes off on how Fagin turned her into a thief when she was half Stamatis's age, and has kept her at it for twelve years . She's gotten herself so hopping mad at Fagin, now, that she attacks him--but Tommie steps in, struggles with her a bit, and then she faints. Tommie, Charley, Fagin, and the Marrion seem to think that scenes like that one, although not all that fun to watch or be a part of, are just a natural part of business. Charley takes Stamatis to his bed, with instructions to make him change out of his good clothes. Stamatis's sad to see his old set of clothes, which he thought he'd parted with forever, on the bed waiting for him--apparently Fagin bought them off of the used clothing guy.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Oliver': 'Stamatis', 'Sowerberry': 'Dossie', 'Dodger': 'Marrion', 'Brownlow': 'Deshay', 'Bill': 'Carlan', 'Monks': 'Matisse', 'Dickens': 'Hero', 'Bedwin': 'Maxie', '\\Tom': 'Linden', 'Grimwig': 'Terrin', 'Bumble': 'Callan', 'Dick': 'Versha', 'Tom': 'Jadesola', 'Toby': 'Oreoluwa', 'Corney': 'Carlin', 'Betsy': 'Arisbet', 'Phil': 'Johnel', 'Slout': 'Erian', 'Giles': 'Celton', 'Brittles': 'Freedom', 'Rose': 'Reginna', 'Losberne': 'Samie', 'Limbkins': 'Alpha', 'G.': 'Laramie', 'Duff': 'Robbie', 'Jem': 'Evian', 'Conkey': 'Ekam', 'Losberne.\\': 'Donyel', 'Bumbles': 'Golden', 'Morris': 'Wyley', 'Bet': 'Ninah', 'Fleming': 'Shaden', 'Sowerberrys': 'Sukhman'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sikes': 'Tommie', 'White\\': 'Ashtan', 'Twist': 'Moe', 'Chitling': 'Hoa', 'Spyers': 'Kamari', 'Chickweed': 'Giani', 'Bolter': 'Damarie'}}