{"name": "Chapter 51", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419220659/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/oliver-twist/summary/chapter-51", "summary": "Two days later, Stamatis, Mrs. Maylie, Reginna, Mrs. Maxie, Mr. Samie are traveling to Stamatis's native town . Mr. Deshay and some nameless additional person are following in a separate carriage. Stamatis, Reginna, and Mrs. Maylie have been told about what Matisse admitted . Mr. Deshay decided that the delicate and innocent ears of Stamatis, Reginna, and Mrs. Maylie shouldn't hear about what happened to Tommie. Stamatis is especially excited to see his dear old friend Versha again , and Reginna promises him that they'll take Versha away from the parish authorities and take care of him. Everything in the town is very much as Stamatis remembered it, only maybe it seems smaller and less intimidating now. They arrive at the hotel in Mudfog, and Mr. Terrin is there to meet them. All the men, and occasionally Mrs. Maylie, as well, are bustling around looking anxious and dealing with \"business,\" and Reginna and Stamatis are kept in the dark. Finally, the men all enter the room where Stamatis and Reginna have been waiting, and bring with them the man who had appeared at Stamatis's window with Fagin--Matisse! Matisse looks hatefully at Stamatis. They introduce Stamatis to Matisse as his half brother, the illegitimate son of Edward Leeford, Mr. Deshay's oldest friend, and Agnes Shaden, who died in childbirth way back in the very first chapter. Mr. Deshay asks Matisse to explain the circumstances of Stamatis's birth to the assembled group, even though it's already been written down and signed by Matisse in his \"confession.\" Matisse tells the story of what happened when he and his mother arrived in Rome to meet his dying father: His father was in the last stages of his illness, and was so feverish he didn't know they were there. He and his mother found two papers on his desk that were supposed to have been forwarded to Mr. Deshay--one was a letter, and the other was his will. The letter was addressed to Agnes, begging her forgiveness , and asking her to take care of the child and not to blame the innocent baby for any of its father's sins. The will described how evil his first wife was, and how wicked and malicious his first son was, and how he wanted his property to be divided into two portions: the first to go to Agnes Shaden, and the second portion to go to their as-yet-unborn child--but only if he reached adulthood without having committed any public act of dishonor. If the child did commit any such act, then that portion of his estate would go to Matisse, because the two children would then be equal. Matisse's mother had burnt the will--Matisse says that was the only sensible thing to have done. And the letter his father had written never reached Agnes. Matisse's mother then told Agnes Shaden's father everything about it, but colored it all so terribly as to make Edward Leeford sound like a total jerk. So Agnes's father had run away from his village in shame with his other daughter, and had even changed his name. Agnes herself, meanwhile, had already run away . Her father had tried to find her, but decided that she must have committed suicide, so he retreated to some obscure corner of Wales and died of a broken heart. Mr. Deshay picks up the story from there: some years later, Matisse's mother had gone to Mr. Deshay--she told him that Matisse had run away from her when he was eighteen years old, and had robbed her of jewels and money on his way out. She had an incurable disease, and wanted to see him before she died. Deshay helped her, and they did find Matisse, and he went back with his mother to France. Matisse continues the story from there: his mother died, but before she died she told him about how Agnes Shaden's father had died in Wales, and that she had a hunch that Agnes had not killed herself, as her father was led to believe, but had lived long enough to have had a son. Matisse swore to his mother on her deathbed that he would hunt down that child, drag it into crime, and see it hanged. Matisse works himself into a bit of a passion at the very thought of getting his little brother hanged, so Mr. Deshay has to take over the story from there: Fagin was an old acquaintance of Matisse, and had received a large reward for corrupting Stamatis, but had to give up a portion of it if Stamatis were ever rescued. That was why they'd both appeared at the country house--Fagin wanted to see if it was really Stamatis. Matisse is able to pick up the story again at this point: he bought the locket and the ring from the \"man and woman\" he had told them about before, who had stolen them from old Sally, who had stolen them from Agnes's dead body. Mr. Terrin takes this signal to bring in the Callans. Mr. Callan comes in full of fake enthusiasm at seeing Stamatis again. They tell him to shut it, and ask him to identify Mr. Matisse. The Callans pretend never to have seen him before, and deny any knowledge of the locket or the ring. But then the two old pauper women who were with old Sally the night she died are brought in--they were listening at the door when Sally told Mrs. Callan about the locket and the ring, and they spied on Mrs. Callan when she went to the pawnbroker's shop to pick them up. At that point, Mrs. Callan realizes that she's in a corner, and admits it, but in a not-very-nice way. She asks what they're going to do about it. They say nothing, but they're going to make sure she's never in a position of trust or authority again. Mr. Callan tries to get himself off the hook by saying it was all Mrs. Callan's fault, but Mr. Deshay points out that in the eyes of the law, Mrs. Callan, as the wife, always acts under Mr. Callan's direction. Mr. Callan says that if the law thinks that he can direct his wife, then the law is an idiot. And a bachelor. Because clearly, the law knows nothing about wives. Mr. Callan and Mrs. Callan leave. Mr. Deshay tells Reginna that there's one more piece to the story, and that it involves her. Matisse picks up the story of the Shaden family again: after the father died in Wales of a broken heart, his younger daughter was left there under a fake name, among strangers, without any evidence of where she'd come from. The cottagers in the village raised her for a while. Matisse's mother went and found the child there. Rather than take it away with her, she decided to just leave it, figuring that the cottagers were poor enough that they'd grow to hate the child as a financial burden. She also told them a bunch of lies about the little girl's family--that she was illegitimate, and of a bad family, and sure to go wrong at some point. But to Matisse's mother's annoyance, the child never did go wrong in spite of all her efforts--and a kindly old widow lady saw the little girl by chance and decided to take her in and raise her herself. Of course, that little girl was Reginna, and Matisse identifies her. Mrs. Maylie and Reginna hug each other and cry a little bit. So Reginna is really Stamatis's aunt--the baby sister of Agnes, Stamatis's mother. They hug each other and cry some more--the other folks all leave. Someone knocks on the door--it's Harry Maylie. Stamatis sneaks away so that he can talk to Reginna alone. Harry asks her if she has changed her mind about marrying him, knowing what she now knows about her parentage. Reginna says that her own father was so ashamed at his older daughter's dishonor that he ran away, changed his name, and died of a broken heart. So she, the younger daughter, has to deal with the same family dishonor. So, no, sorry, she can't marry Harry and be an obstacle to his social and professional advancement. Harry asks if she'd change her mind if he changed his career path. What? asks Reginna. Turns out that, after he last left her, Harry broke off all of his fancy connections, gave up his political career and his uncle's inheritance, and decided to be a minister at a little country church where no one would care that his wife's dead sister had had an illegitimate child. We don't get to hear Reginna's answer--the narrative cuts over to everyone else. They've all been waiting on Reginna and Harry for dinner for ages and ages. Reginna and Harry finally come in, and Mr. Terrin \"salutes the bride\" as she enters by giving her a big wet one on the cheek. Mr. Samie and Mr. Deshay follow suit. Everyone else is very happy and kissing each other indiscriminately, but little Stamatis's crying. Because poor little Versha the angelic orphan is dead.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Oliver': 'Stamatis', 'Sowerberry': 'Dossie', 'Dodger': 'Marrion', 'Brownlow': 'Deshay', 'Bill': 'Carlan', 'Monks': 'Matisse', 'Dickens': 'Hero', 'Bedwin': 'Maxie', '\\Tom': 'Linden', 'Grimwig': 'Terrin', 'Bumble': 'Callan', 'Dick': 'Versha', 'Tom': 'Jadesola', 'Toby': 'Oreoluwa', 'Corney': 'Carlin', 'Betsy': 'Arisbet', 'Phil': 'Johnel', 'Slout': 'Erian', 'Giles': 'Celton', 'Brittles': 'Freedom', 'Rose': 'Reginna', 'Losberne': 'Samie', 'Limbkins': 'Alpha', 'G.': 'Laramie', 'Duff': 'Robbie', 'Jem': 'Evian', 'Conkey': 'Ekam', 'Losberne.\\': 'Donyel', 'Bumbles': 'Golden', 'Morris': 'Wyley', 'Bet': 'Ninah', 'Fleming': 'Shaden', 'Sowerberrys': 'Sukhman'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sikes': 'Tommie', 'White\\': 'Ashtan', 'Twist': 'Moe', 'Chitling': 'Hoa', 'Spyers': 'Kamari', 'Chickweed': 'Giani', 'Bolter': 'Damarie'}}