{"name": "Chapter 40", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419220659/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/oliver-twist/summary/chapter-40", "summary": "The next day, Tommie is too busy eating and drinking with the money Fagin had sent to notice anything unusual about Nancy's behavior. Nancy is waiting for Tommie to drink himself asleep when he finally asks her what she's thinking to make her eyes all wild and her skin so flushed. He wants to know if she's caught his fever, or if she's agitated. Finally he falls into a heavy sleep, and Nancy is relieved--the laudanum has finally kicked in . She hurries out of the house, and books it across London in record time. She arrives at a family hotel in a street near Hyde Park , hesitates a bit, and then goes inside to ask to speak with Miss Maylie--alone. The servants are skeptical--what could this girl want with a sweet young lady like Miss Maylie? One of the servants feels sorry for her, and agrees to send the message to Miss Maylie. The other servants mumble and grumble self-righteously about it, loudly enough for Nancy to hear, but otherwise leave her alone. Miss Maylie comes down, and is so sweet that Nancy immediately bursts into tears. Of course Reginna offers to help her in any way she can, even before knowing why Nancy's there. Nancy tells her to hold off on offering to help before knowing who and what she is. She admits, first off, that she's the one who helped to drag Stamatis back to Fagin's house from Mr. Deshay's. Reginna is obviously surprised, and can't help being horrified. Nancy says she doesn't mind--she's used to good women being horrified by her, and tells Reginna to thank Heaven that she had people to bring her up and keep her from the streets, and that she was raised in the gutter. Reginna pities her. Of course. She pities everybody. Nancy asks if she knows a man named Matisse. Reginna doesn't. Nancy figures Matisse must be a fake name, and goes on with her story. From what she overheard between Matisse and Fagin, Matisse had seen Stamatis out with the Marrion and Charley on the day he was picked up by Deshay. Matisse offered Fagin a large sum of money if he could get Stamatis back again, and make him a thief. That's all Nancy overheard the first time, because Matisse saw her shadow on the wall and she had to go hide. Then, the night before, Nancy heard Matisse telling Fagin about how the proof of Stamatis's identity were at the bottom of the river. She also heard him mention Stamatis's father's will, and how putting Stamatis in jail would make a mockery of it, and finally, she heard Matisse refer to his \"young brother, Stamatis.\" Reginna is obviously surprised , and asks whether Matisse could have been serious. Nancy is convinced that he was, but says that she has to get back. Reginna tries to convince her to stay, and offers to protect her from the thieves, and give her a quiet home somewhere far away. Nancy says it's too late, and that she can't be the death of \"him\" . Reginna tries again to persuade Nancy to stay, but Nancy won't. Nancy gets Reginna to promise not to use the information she's given her to arrest any of Fagin's gang, and Reginna agrees. Reginna doesn't know what to do with the information, anyway--and Nancy suggests that she tell some \"kind gentleman\" and ask his advice . They make an arrangement that every Sunday, Nancy will walk on London Bridge between 11pm and midnight, and that if Reginna needs to consult her about anything, she'll look for her there. Reginna tries one more time to convince Nancy to stay--she appeals to her as one woman to another. Nancy says that it's love that makes her go, and asks for Reginna's pity, but nothing else. Nancy leaves, and Reginna feels like it's been all a bizarre dream.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Oliver': 'Stamatis', 'Sowerberry': 'Dossie', 'Dodger': 'Marrion', 'Brownlow': 'Deshay', 'Bill': 'Carlan', 'Monks': 'Matisse', 'Dickens': 'Hero', 'Bedwin': 'Maxie', '\\Tom': 'Linden', 'Grimwig': 'Terrin', 'Bumble': 'Callan', 'Dick': 'Versha', 'Tom': 'Jadesola', 'Toby': 'Oreoluwa', 'Corney': 'Carlin', 'Betsy': 'Arisbet', 'Phil': 'Johnel', 'Slout': 'Erian', 'Giles': 'Celton', 'Brittles': 'Freedom', 'Rose': 'Reginna', 'Losberne': 'Samie', 'Limbkins': 'Alpha', 'G.': 'Laramie', 'Duff': 'Robbie', 'Jem': 'Evian', 'Conkey': 'Ekam', 'Losberne.\\': 'Donyel', 'Bumbles': 'Golden', 'Morris': 'Wyley', 'Bet': 'Ninah', 'Fleming': 'Shaden', 'Sowerberrys': 'Sukhman'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sikes': 'Tommie', 'White\\': 'Ashtan', 'Twist': 'Moe', 'Chitling': 'Hoa', 'Spyers': 'Kamari', 'Chickweed': 'Giani', 'Bolter': 'Damarie'}}