{"name": "Chapter 49", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419220659/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/oliver-twist/summary/chapter-49", "summary": "Mr. Deshay gets out of a hired coach at his own house, and knocks on the door. After the front door is opened, two other men get out of the cab, and help a third man climb out. It's Matisse. Matisse is obviously hesitant to enter the house. Deshay says that if Matisse refuses to go in, the other two men should drag him into the street, call for the police, and have him arrested as a felon in Deshay's name. Matisse is indignant at having been kidnapped in the street, and Deshay invites him to appeal to the police--if he does so, Deshay will have him accused of robbery and fraud. Given the alternatives, Matisse goes inside. Once they're alone in Deshay's study, Matisse takes off his hat and cloak, and complains at his treatment at the hands of \"my father's oldest friend\" . Deshay says that he takes particular interest in what Matisse does because he was his father's oldest friend, and would have married his father's sister, if she hadn't died the morning of their wedding day. And then he calls Matisse by his real name , and says that he's unworthy of that name. Deshay then tells Matisse that he knows about his younger brother. Matisse plays dumb, forcing Deshay to tell him the whole story . Deshay's best friend, Edward Leeford, was forced by his family into an early marriage to an older and awful woman. The young Edward Leeford, whom we know as Matisse, was their only son. His parents hated each other, and were miserable. They were separated . Matisse's mother went to \"the continent\" with their son, and blew all her money on entertainment and clothes. Matisse's father stayed in England, and made friends with a retired navy officer and his two children. One of the children was a beautiful daughter. And as the navy officer grew to like Matisse's father and to love him as a friend, the daughter likewise fell in love with him. At the end of a year, they were engaged. Matisse, meanwhile, is acting very skeptical about all of this. But Deshay continues the story, anyway. Around the time that Matisse's father fell in love with his friends' daughter, a rich relative died and left him a lot of money, but required him to travel to Rome to deal with the will. Matisse's mother was in Paris, and traveled to Rome with Matisse to meet him there. Matisse's father got sick and died in Rome just a day after his wife and son arrived, leaving no will, so the whole of the estate--including the money the rich relative had just left him--went to his wife and son. Matisse gets very eager at this point in the story. Deshay tells him that, before his father had left for Rome, he'd gone through London to see his old friend, Deshay, and had left a few things with him that he couldn't take abroad. Matisse is unpleasantly surprised. One of the things Matisse's father left was a portrait he'd made of the girl he was in love with. He told Deshay that he was planning on selling everything he'd inherited, taking the money, and leaving England forever. He didn't tell Deshay that he was planning on leaving with a girl, but Deshay was smart enough to guess that much. But he never saw his friend again, because he died when he arrived in Rome. After his friend died, Deshay went to visit the girl, and the scene of his friend's \"guilty love,\" as he put it . But the family had left the neighborhood, and no one could tell him why or where they had gone. Matisse looks pleased at this. Then Deshay tells Matisse that he had rescued his brother from a life of crime when Stamatis had been cast into his life as if by fate. Matisse is surprised and less pleased about this. Deshay tells Matisse how startled he'd been by the resemblance between Stamatis and the portrait his dead friend had made of his special lady. However, Stamatis had been stolen away before he was able to tell Deshay his story--but then, Deshay tells Matisse, you knew that. Matisse denies it. Deshay is unimpressed with his denial, and says that, since Matisse's mother was dead, he knew that only Matisse could clear up the mystery, so he left London for the West Indies, which was the last place where he'd heard Matisse was living. But Matisse had long since left, and had come back to London. So Deshay had returned to London, looking for Matisse, and had only just found him. Matisse still denies everything. He says that a resemblance between some orphan boy and a dead man's painting of his old lover doesn't prove a thing, especially given that Deshay has no proof that a baby was ever born to his father and his second lover. Deshay admits that he didn't have proof, but that he has gotten all the proof he needed within the last couple of weeks. Deshay continues his narrative as a string of accusations against Matisse: there was a will that Matisse's father left, but that his mother had destroyed, that made reference to the child of the young lady. Matisse accidentally ran into the child, whose resemblance to his father caught his attention. So Matisse went to the place where the child was born, to discover--and destroy--the proofs of his parentage. Deshay then quotes Matisse's own words back at him , and tells him that not a single word or action was unknown to him. Matisse is pretty terrified by this point, especially when Deshay tells him that he was indirectly responsible for the murder of Nancy by Tommie. Matisse is terrified by all these accusations, and agrees to tell the whole story, sign his name to it in front of witnesses, and fulfill the provisions of his father's will to Stamatis. Just as all this has been agreed to, Mr. Samie bursts in, and tells them that the murderer is going to be arrested that very night - his dog had been seen lurking around a house by the river, and the government is offering a reward of a hundred pounds. Deshay offers fifty more. He tells Matisse to stay where he is until they get back, or they'll go to the police with the whole story. They lock him in, and agree on meeting the day after tomorrow to write the whole thing down in front of witnesses. Deshay takes off for the police office so that he'll be in time to see Tommie caught, and Samie stays behind to look after Matisse.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Oliver': 'Stamatis', 'Sowerberry': 'Dossie', 'Dodger': 'Marrion', 'Brownlow': 'Deshay', 'Bill': 'Carlan', 'Monks': 'Matisse', 'Dickens': 'Hero', 'Bedwin': 'Maxie', '\\Tom': 'Linden', 'Grimwig': 'Terrin', 'Bumble': 'Callan', 'Dick': 'Versha', 'Tom': 'Jadesola', 'Toby': 'Oreoluwa', 'Corney': 'Carlin', 'Betsy': 'Arisbet', 'Phil': 'Johnel', 'Slout': 'Erian', 'Giles': 'Celton', 'Brittles': 'Freedom', 'Rose': 'Reginna', 'Losberne': 'Samie', 'Limbkins': 'Alpha', 'G.': 'Laramie', 'Duff': 'Robbie', 'Jem': 'Evian', 'Conkey': 'Ekam', 'Losberne.\\': 'Donyel', 'Bumbles': 'Golden', 'Morris': 'Wyley', 'Bet': 'Ninah', 'Fleming': 'Shaden', 'Sowerberrys': 'Sukhman'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sikes': 'Tommie', 'White\\': 'Ashtan', 'Twist': 'Moe', 'Chitling': 'Hoa', 'Spyers': 'Kamari', 'Chickweed': 'Giani', 'Bolter': 'Damarie'}}