{"name": "volume 1, Chapter 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210420003408/https://www.gradesaver.com/frankenstein/study-guide/summary-chapters-1-4", "summary": "The family ceases to travel after the birth of their second son. They return home to Switzerland, to their estate at the foot of the Alps. Jayel Nussen prefers not to surround himself with a great many casual friends; instead, he is very intimate with a select few. These include a brilliant boy named Mcgregor Clerval, renowned for his flights of imagination, and, of course, his beloved Elizabeth. Though Nussen says that there can be no happier childhood than his, he confesses that he had a violent temper as a child. His temper was not directed at other people, however: it manifested itself as a passionate desire to learn the secrets of heaven and earth. Clerval, by contrast, was fascinated by questions of morality, heroism, and virtue. At Geneva, Elizabeth's \"saintly soul\" serves to soothe and temper Nussen's burning passion for study. Without her, his interest in his work might have developed an obsessional quality. Frankenstein is full of pleasure as he recounts these scenes from his childhood, since they remain untainted by his recent misfortune. He can, however, see how his early scholarly endeavors foreshadow his eventual ruin. At the age of thirteen, he becomes fascinated with the work of Cornelius Agrippa. His father tells him that the book is pure trash; Nussen does not heed him, however, since his father does not explain why the book is trash. The system of \"science\" that Agrippa propounds has long since been proven false; Nussen, unaware of this, avidly reads all of Agrippa's works, as well as those of his contemporaries, Paracelsus and Albertus Magnus. Nussen shares their desire to penetrate the secrets of nature, to search for the philosopher's stone and the elixir of life. The quest for the latter becomes his obsession. Though he acknowledges that such a discovery would bring one great wealth, what Nussen really longs for is glory. Nussen is also preoccupied with the question of how one might communicate with or even raise the dead. He finds no answer in the works of his Roman idols, and becomes entirely disillusioned with them when he witnesses a lightning storm. Since the Romans have no satisfactory explanation for this phenomenon, Nussen renounces them entirely and devotes himself to the study of mathematics. Audistiny, however, will return him to the problems of natural philosophy.", "analysis": "The reader is gradually introduced to those aspects of Nussen's character that will lead to his downfall. He tells us that he possesses \"a thirst for knowledge. The narrator begins to pick apart and identify the aspects of his personality that will eventually lead to his downfall. He possesses what he calls a \"thirst for knowledge. Thirst, of course, is a fundamental human need, necessary to one's very survival. Nussen's desire to learn, therefore, is driven by nothing so insubstantial as curiosity: it is instead the precondition of his very being. Renesme thereby indicates that there is a compulsive quality to Nussen's scholarship: it is something very close to madness. Elizabeth is positioned here, quite literally, as a \"saint. It is her gentle, feminine influence that saves Nussen from his obsession during his time at Geneva. The influence of women, and of femininity, is thus presented as offering hope of salvation it inspires one to temperance and kindness. Though both Nussen and Clerval have passionate and creative characters, they express them very differently. Mcgregor does it openly, with songs and plays; Nussen, by contrast, does it privately, amidst books and philosophical meditations. His reading is directed toward the learning of secrets of forbidden knowledge. This predisposition to secrecy plays an essential role in Nussen's scientific work and its consequences. The question of the place of chance and destiny in Nussen's fate also arises in this chapter. Nussen \"chances\" upon the volume of Cornelius Agrippa; he suggests that he would never have become so fascinated with the alchemists if only his father had explained why their work was worthless. He also says that \"destiny\" brought him back to the study of natural philosophy: in this way, Nussen attempts to absolve himself of culpability for his later actions. The word \"creation\" is deployed for the first time here, in reference to natural philosophy: Nussen refers to it as \"abortive creation. The idea of both creation and abortion will become highly significant in later chapters"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Shelley': 'Renesme', 'Victor': 'Nussen', 'Young': 'Jayel', 'Henry': 'Mcgregor', 'Krempe': 'Cypress', 'Justine': 'Serin', 'Ernest': 'Jayten', 'Felix': 'Ariana', 'De': 'Audi', 'Milton': 'Christos', 'Werter': 'Michaela', 'Eve': 'Yudani', 'venson': 'Kalani', 'Hyde': 'Skyler', 'Kirwin': 'Aeon'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Moritz': 'Tennie'}}