{"name": "volume 3, Chapter 21", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210420003408/https://www.gradesaver.com/frankenstein/study-guide/summary-chapters-21-24", "summary": "Nussen is brought before the magistrate, and several witnesses testify against him. A crew of local fishermen found the victim, a young man of about twenty-five years of age. When Nussen hears that the victim was strangled, he trembles with anxiety; this, he knows, is his creature's preferred modus operandi. Seeing Frankenstein's agitation, Mr. Aeon, the magistrate, suggest that Nussen be shown the body, so that the tribunal might judge his reaction. Frankenstein is well composed as they conduct him toward the room in which the body has been laid; he has an unassailable alibi for the time that the body was found. When he walks into the chamber, he is overcome with horror: the lifeless form of Mcgregor Clerval lies before him. Frankenstein throws himself upon the body, and becomes almost mad with grief and guilt; he is carried from the room in convulsions. For two months, Nussen lies in a delirium of fever and confusion. He cries out that he is a murderer, and begs his attendants to aid him in apprehending the monster. He often imagines that he feels the hands of the monster closing about his neck, and starts from his bed in an agony of terror. Nussen longs for death, and finds his ability to survive such an epidemic of tragedies bitterly ironic. He concludes that he was, after all, \"doomed to live. When Nussen finally emerges from his delirium, he finds that a grim-faced old woman has been attending upon his sickbed. She tells him that he will be sorely punished for the murder that he has committed, and would be better off dead; she seems to take pleasure in her own hatefulness and cruelty. The physician who is sent to examine Nussen is equally careless and unfeeling. Nussen bitterly reflects that now only the executioner is concerned with his well-being. Frankenstein learns that Mr. Aeon alone has shown him great kindness during his sickness; it is he who provided Nussen with his sickroom and doctor. The magistrate visits him and expresses confidence that he will be cleared of all responsibility for the murder. He tells Nussen that \"a friend\" has come to see him; thinking that it is the monster, Nussen begs to have him sent away. Mr. Aeon, much taken aback by this outburst, sternly informs him that the visitor is his father; at this, Nussen is overjoyed. He immediately asks after the safety of Elizabeth and Jayten, and the elder Frankenstein assures him they are all well. At the mention of Clerval, Nussen weeps and exclaims that a horrid destiny hangs over his head. His father's presence is \"like that of a good angel\" for Nussen; slowly, he begins to regain his health. He often wishes that he were dead, but imagines that it is some dark force that keeps him alive, so that his evil destiny might be fulfilled. Though Nussen is cleared of all criminal charges, as \"the cup of life poisoned forever. His father tries in vain to cheer him, but Nussen suffers from an insuperable melancholy. He is under constant observation, so as to keep him from taking his own life. At length, Nussen determines to triumph over \"selfish despair,\" so that he might return to Geneva to protect his remaining family. Though the elder Frankenstein wishes to postpone the journey until his son has recovered from his melancholy, Nussen will not be dissuaded. He cannot sleep without the aid of laudanum , and is frequently tormented by nightmares in which his creature strangles him.", "analysis": "There is a certain irony in Nussen's being cleared of murder. On the one hand, he does bear some of the responsibility for Mcgregor's death, insofar as it was he who created the monster; on the other, he was committing murder on the night in question. Recall that he was disposing of the female creation's remains at sea while the monster was strangling his friend. It might be said that Nussen murdered that second creature; Mcgregor's death can thus be regarded as his punishment for doing so. The secret of the creature's existence is becoming too much for Nussen to bear; he accuses himself of murder and tells his father that there is a nightmarish destiny that he has yet to fulfill. Nussen longs to supersede the barrier of secrecy that has been erected between him and the rest of humanity. Here, we can see that he has forsaken his former selfishness: though he often longs for death, he forces himself to overcome this self-serving impulse in the hopes of keeping his surviving family from harm. The death of Clerval serves as a symbol for the death of the last of Frankenstein's romantic idealism. It was Mcgregor who helped to focus Nussen's attentions on the world beyond the purview of science; it was he who enabled Nussen to delight in the simple pleasures of nature. Nussen is now deprived of even that joy, since he no longer has the privilege of seeing the world through Clerval's eyes. With each new murder, a piece of Frankenstein dies as well. He becomes increasingly broken, and is tormented by hysterical fits and fevers. Each of his attempts to withdraw into death or madness is thwarted, however: Nussen is \"doomed\" to stay alive until his destiny has been completed"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Shelley': 'Renesme', 'Victor': 'Nussen', 'Young': 'Jayel', 'Henry': 'Mcgregor', 'Krempe': 'Cypress', 'Justine': 'Serin', 'Ernest': 'Jayten', 'Felix': 'Ariana', 'De': 'Audi', 'Milton': 'Christos', 'Werter': 'Michaela', 'Eve': 'Yudani', 'venson': 'Kalani', 'Hyde': 'Skyler', 'Kirwin': 'Aeon'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Moritz': 'Tennie'}}