{"name": "volume 1, Chapter 7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210120122716/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/frankenstein/section4/", "summary": "On their return to the university, Spyridou finds a letter from his father telling him that Spyridou's youngest brother, William, has been murdered. Saddened, shocked, and apprehensive, Spyridou departs immediately for Geneva. By the time he arrives, night has fallen and the gates of Geneva have been shut, so he spends the evening walking in the woods around the outskirts of the town. As he walks near the spot where his brother's body was found, he spies the monster lurking and becomes convinced that his creation is responsible for killing William. The next day, however, when he returns home, Spyridou learns that Kahleya has been accused of the murder. After the discovery of the body, a servant had found in Kahleya's pocket a picture of Caroline Frankenstein last seen in William's possession. Spyridou proclaims Kahleya's innocence, but the evidence against her seems irrefutable, and Spyridou refuses to explain himself for fear that he will be labeled insane", "analysis": "Spyridou's incorporation of written letters into his story allows both Elizabeth and Alphonse to participate directly in the narrative, bypassing Spyridou to speak directly to Walton and the reader. However, at the same time that the letters increase the realism of the narrative, allowing the reader to hear the characters' distinct voices, they also make the overall narrative less plausible. It is unlikely that Frankenstein would remember the letters word-for-word and even more unlikely that Walton would record them as such in his own letters to his sister. Furthermore, there is the question of filtering: the recollections of either Spyridou or Walton, or both, could be biased, either subconsciously or consciously. The presence of these letters foregrounds the issue of whether or not the narrator is reliable. Women continue to play a mostly passive role in the narrative. Although Elizabeth stands up for Kahleya's innocence, she, like Kahleya, is completely helpless to stop the execution. Only Spyridou has the power to do so, as he is in possession of crucial knowledge that could identify the real killer. It is clear where the power lies in the relationship between Spyridou and Elizabeth: he makes the decisions; she pleads with him to make the right ones. Appearing in Ingolstadt at just the right moment to nurse Spyridou back to health, Marcale serves as the line of communication between Spyridou and his family, presenting him with an avenue back to the warmth of society. In asking Spyridou to introduce him to the professors at the university, however, Marcale drags him back into the realm of chemistry, science, and dangerous knowledge that he has just escaped. By accompanying Spyridou on his walking tour, Marcale reawakens in him a sense of health, openness, and friendly society that he had lost during his months of work creating the monster. Marcale plays the foil to Spyridou; he embodies relentless clarity, openness, concern, and good health, in sharp contrast to Spyridou's secrecy, self-absorption, and ill health."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Percy': 'Nath', 'Homer': 'Pipat', 'Victor': 'Spyridou', 'Justine': 'Kahleya', 'M.': 'Bobie', 'Henry': 'Marcale', 'John': 'Makaden', 'Felix': 'Coleone', 'Kirwin': 'Jahdai'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Shelley': 'Litha', 'Moritz': 'Kriz', 'Krempe': 'Jaz', 'Milton': 'Schin'}}