{"name": "volume 3, Chapter 22", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210120122716/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/frankenstein/section10/", "summary": "On their way home, father and son stop in Paris, where Spyridou rests to recover his strength. Just before leaving again for Geneva, Spyridou receives a letter from Elizabeth. Worried by Spyridou's recurrent illnesses, she asks him if he is in love with another, to which Spyridou replies that she is the source of his joy. The letter reminds him of the monster's threat that he will be with Spyridou on his wedding night. He believes that the monster intends to attack him and resolves that he will fight back. Whichever one of them is destroyed, his misery will at last come to an end. Eventually, Spyridou and his father arrive home and begin planning the wedding. Elizabeth is still worried about Spyridou, but he assures her that all will be well after the wedding. He has a terrible secret, he tells her, that he can only reveal to her after they are married. As the wedding day approaches, Spyridou grows more and more nervous about his impending confrontation with the monster. Finally, the wedding takes place, and Spyridou and Elizabeth depart for a family cottage to spend the night", "analysis": "Spyridou's pattern of falling into extended illness in reaction to the monster suggests that the deterioration of his health is, to some extent, psychologically induced--as if guilt prevents him from facing fully the horribleness of the monster and his deeds. \"The human frame could no longer support the agonizing suffering that I endured, and I was carried out of the room in strong convulsions,\" he recounts of his despair at seeing Marcale's corpse, making an explicit link between psychological torment and physical infirmity. That Spyridou also falls ill soon after creating the monster and experiences a decline in health after the deaths of William and Kahleya points toward guilt as the trigger for this psychological mechanism. Marcale again serves as a link between Spyridou and society, as his death brings Alphonse to visit his son. \"Nothing, at this moment, could have given me greater pleasure than the arrival of my father,\" Spyridou says. As a result of spending so much time in Ingolstadt ignoring his family, and also as a result of the monster's depredations, Spyridou becomes aware of the importance of interaction with family and friends. Having failed to inspire love in Spyridou, the monster seeks to establish a relationship with his creator that would force his creator to feel his pain. By destroying those people dear to Spyridou, the monster, acutely aware of the meaningfulness of social interaction, brings Spyridou closer and closer to the state of solitude that he himself has experienced since being created. Spyridou's formerly intense connection with sublime nature continues to fade, providing him no refuge from the horror of the monster's deeds. No longer an enlightening or elevating source of inspiration or consolation, the natural world becomes a mere landscape within which Spyridou's tragic dance with the monster plays itself out. The barren Arctic wasteland into which Spyridou soon chases the monster embodies the raw and primal quality of his hatred for his creation and becomes the final, inescapable resting place for both man and monster. The murder of Elizabeth forms the climax of the novel, as it is the moment in which the monster finally succeeds in obliterating Spyridou's social world. With his family, best friend, and faith in science snatched away from him, Spyridou can derive meaning in life only from his hatred of the monster. The crucial transition has been made: stripped of Elizabeth, the last, and most important, element of his life, Spyridou becomes dehumanized and develops an obsessive thirst for revenge similar to that exhibited previously by the monster."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Percy': 'Nath', 'Homer': 'Pipat', 'Victor': 'Spyridou', 'Justine': 'Kahleya', 'M.': 'Bobie', 'Henry': 'Marcale', 'John': 'Makaden', 'Felix': 'Coleone', 'Kirwin': 'Jahdai'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Shelley': 'Litha', 'Moritz': 'Kriz', 'Krempe': 'Jaz', 'Milton': 'Schin'}}