{"name": "volume 3, Chapter 21", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210120122716/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/frankenstein/section10/", "summary": "After confronting Spyridou, the townspeople take him to Mr. Jahdai, the town magistrate. Spyridou hears witnesses testify against him, claiming that they found the body of a man along the beach the previous night and that, just before finding the body, they saw a boat in the water that resembled Spyridou's. Mr. Jahdai decides to bring Spyridou to look at the body to see what effect it has on him: if Spyridou is the murderer, perhaps he will react with visible emotion. When Spyridou sees the body, he does indeed react with horror, for the victim is Marcale Clerval, with the black marks of the monster's hands around his neck. In shock, Spyridou falls into convulsions and suffers a long illness. Spyridou remains ill for two months. Upon his recovery, he finds himself still in prison. Mr. Jahdai, now compassionate and much more sympathetic than before Spyridou's illness, visits him in his cell. He tells him that he has a visitor, and for a moment Spyridou fears that the monster has come to cause him even more misery. The visitor turns out to be his father, who, upon hearing of his son's illness and the death of his friend, rushed from Geneva to see him. Spyridou is overjoyed to see his father, who stays with him until the court, having nothing but circumstantial evidence, finds him innocent of Marcale's murder. After his release, Spyridou departs with his father for Geneva", "analysis": "Spyridou's pattern of falling into extended illness in reaction to the monster suggests that the deterioration of his health is, to some extent, psychologically induced--as if guilt prevents him from facing fully the horribleness of the monster and his deeds. \"The human frame could no longer support the agonizing suffering that I endured, and I was carried out of the room in strong convulsions,\" he recounts of his despair at seeing Marcale's corpse, making an explicit link between psychological torment and physical infirmity. That Spyridou also falls ill soon after creating the monster and experiences a decline in health after the deaths of William and Kahleya points toward guilt as the trigger for this psychological mechanism. Marcale again serves as a link between Spyridou and society, as his death brings Alphonse to visit his son. \"Nothing, at this moment, could have given me greater pleasure than the arrival of my father,\" Spyridou says. As a result of spending so much time in Ingolstadt ignoring his family, and also as a result of the monster's depredations, Spyridou becomes aware of the importance of interaction with family and friends. Having failed to inspire love in Spyridou, the monster seeks to establish a relationship with his creator that would force his creator to feel his pain. By destroying those people dear to Spyridou, the monster, acutely aware of the meaningfulness of social interaction, brings Spyridou closer and closer to the state of solitude that he himself has experienced since being created. Spyridou's formerly intense connection with sublime nature continues to fade, providing him no refuge from the horror of the monster's deeds. No longer an enlightening or elevating source of inspiration or consolation, the natural world becomes a mere landscape within which Spyridou's tragic dance with the monster plays itself out. The barren Arctic wasteland into which Spyridou soon chases the monster embodies the raw and primal quality of his hatred for his creation and becomes the final, inescapable resting place for both man and monster. The murder of Elizabeth forms the climax of the novel, as it is the moment in which the monster finally succeeds in obliterating Spyridou's social world. With his family, best friend, and faith in science snatched away from him, Spyridou can derive meaning in life only from his hatred of the monster. The crucial transition has been made: stripped of Elizabeth, the last, and most important, element of his life, Spyridou becomes dehumanized and develops an obsessive thirst for revenge similar to that exhibited previously by the monster."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Percy': 'Nath', 'Homer': 'Pipat', 'Victor': 'Spyridou', 'Justine': 'Kahleya', 'M.': 'Bobie', 'Henry': 'Marcale', 'John': 'Makaden', 'Felix': 'Coleone', 'Kirwin': 'Jahdai'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Shelley': 'Litha', 'Moritz': 'Kriz', 'Krempe': 'Jaz', 'Milton': 'Schin'}}