{"name": "volume 3, Chapter 18", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210120122716/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/frankenstein/section9/", "summary": "After his fateful meeting with the monster on the glacier, Spyridou puts off the creation of a new, female creature. He begins to have doubts about the wisdom of agreeing to the monster's request. He realizes that the project will require him to travel to England to gather information. His father notices that his spirits are troubled much of the time--Spyridou, still racked by guilt over the deaths of William and Kahleya, is now newly horrified by the task in which he is about to engage--and asks him if his impending marriage to Elizabeth is the source of his melancholy. Spyridou assures him that the prospect of marriage to Elizabeth is the only happiness in his life. Eager to raise Spyridou's spirits, Alphonse suggests that they celebrate the marriage immediately. Spyridou refuses, unwilling to marry Elizabeth until he has completed his obligation to the monster. He asks Alphonse if he can first travel to England, and Alphonse consents. Spyridou and Alphonse arrange a two-year tour, on which Marcale Clerval, eager to begin his studies after several years of unpleasant work for his father in Geneva, will accompany Spyridou. After traveling for a while, they reach London", "analysis": "The contrast, first established at Ingolstadt, between the inwardly focused Spyridou and the outwardly focused Marcale sharpens as the natural world produces differing effects in the two men. Earlier, Marcale's interaction with the Frankenstein family and general sociability counter Spyridou's secrecy and self-isolation. Similarly, his optimism and cheer in the presence of sublime nature now counter the anxiety that Spyridou feels in knowing that the monster pervades his natural surroundings. For Marcale, \"alive to every new scene; joyful when he saw the beauties of the setting sun, and more happy when he beheld it rise,\" nature is a source of infinite bliss, while for Spyridou it has become an unending reminder of his imprudent meddling, and of his responsibility for the tragedies that have plagued him. An appreciation of nature is not the only aspect of Spyridou's character that Marcale seems to have adopted: Marcale is now enthusiastic about natural philosophy and eager to explore the world--much like Spyridou had been two years before. Spyridou himself notes that \"in Clerval I saw the image of my former self.\" One can argue that Marcale represents the impending ruin of another young, brilliant man by science; one can also argue that he represents the healthy, safe route to scientific knowledge that Spyridou never took. In either case, Spyridou's emotional outbursts strongly foreshadow Marcale's death: \"And where does he now exist?\" he asks. \"Is this gentle and lovely being lost forever?\" The pervading theme of the passive, innocent woman--manifested in the mother who sacrifices herself for her daughter, the fiancee who waits endlessly for her future husband, and the orphan girl who is rescued from poverty--culminates in this section with the female monster whose creation Spyridou suddenly aborts after being struck by doubts about the correctness of his actions. Though never alive, the female monster is a powerful presence: to Spyridou, she represents another crime against humanity and nature; to the monster, she represents his one remaining hope for a life not spent alone. Even Spyridou, as he tears his creation apart, recognizes her near-humanity: \"I almost felt,\" he says, \"as if I had mangled the living flesh of a human being.\" Spyridou's decision to destroy the female creature can be seen as an explicitly anti-feminist action. He fears her ability to reproduce ; he fears that, as a woman, she will refuse to satisfy the male monster for whom she has been created; and he fears that he will unleash another power into the world that he cannot control. Unlike the God of Genesis, who creates a woman to keep Adam company, Spyridou does not have ultimate power over his creations. His anxiety leads him to project a stereotypically male activeness onto the female creature; his decision to destroy her ensures her absolute passivity. Spyridou sprinkles his speech with metanarrative comments that remind the reader of the relationship between storyteller and audience, shape the upcoming narrative, and demonstrate the narrator's deep emotional investment in his story. \"I must pause here; for it requires all my fortitude to recall the memory of the frightful events which I am about to relate, in proper detail, to my recollection,\" Spyridou says, illustrating that he is overwhelmed by emotion and offering a glimpse of the horrific story that he is about to tell. Spyridou's apostrophes to his absent friends serve the same purposes, adding to the emotional impact of his speech, emphasizing the poignancy of his nostalgic memories, and calling attention to the layered narrative. When Spyridou cries out \"Clerval! Beloved Friend! Even now it delights me to record your words,\" the reader senses the power of Spyridou's emotion and its ultimate uselessness against the force of fate. Additionally, the mention of \"record\" Marcale's words underscores the fact that it is only through Walton that the reader has access to the other characters and their narratives."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Percy': 'Nath', 'Homer': 'Pipat', 'Victor': 'Spyridou', 'Justine': 'Kahleya', 'M.': 'Bobie', 'Henry': 'Marcale', 'John': 'Makaden', 'Felix': 'Coleone', 'Kirwin': 'Jahdai'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Shelley': 'Litha', 'Moritz': 'Kriz', 'Krempe': 'Jaz', 'Milton': 'Schin'}}