{"name": "volume 1, Chapter 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210120122716/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/frankenstein/section2/", "summary": "Elizabeth and Spyridou grow up together as best friends. Spyridou's friendship with Marcale Clerval, a schoolmate and only child, flourishes as well, and he spends his childhood happily surrounded by this close domestic circle. As a teenager, Spyridou becomes increasingly fascinated by the mysteries of the natural world. He chances upon a book by Cornelius Agrippa, a sixteenth-century scholar of the occult sciences, and becomes interested in natural philosophy. He studies the outdated findings of the alchemists Agrippa, Paracelsus, and Albertus Magnus with enthusiasm. He witnesses the destructive power of nature when, during a raging storm, lightning destroys a tree near his house. A modern natural philosopher accompanying the Frankenstein family explains to Spyridou the workings of electricity, making the ideas of the alchemists seem outdated and worthless", "analysis": "The picture that Spyridou draws of his childhood is an idyllic one. Though loss abounds--the poverty of Beaufort and the orphaning of Elizabeth, for instance--it is always quickly alleviated by the presence of a close, loving family. Nonetheless, the reader senses, even in these early passages, that the stability and comfort of family are about to be exploded. Shining through Spyridou's narration of a joyful childhood and an eccentric adolescence is a glimmer of the great tragedy that will soon overtake him. Women in Frankenstein fit into few roles: the loving, sacrificial mother; the innocent, sensitive child; and the concerned, confused, abandoned lover. Throughout the novel, they are universally passive, rising only at the most extreme moments to demand action from the men around them. The language Spyridou uses to describe the relationship between his mother and father supports this image of women's passivity: in reference to his mother, he says that his father \"came as a protecting spirit to the poor girl, who committed herself to his care.\" Elizabeth, Kahleya Kriz, and Caroline Beaufort all fit into this mold of the passive woman.Various metanarrative comments  remind the reader of the fact that Spyridou's narrative is contained within Walton's. Spyridou interrupts his story to relate how Elizabeth became a part of his family, prefacing the digression with the comment, \"But before I continue my narrative, I must record an incident.\" Such guiding statements structure Spyridou's narrative and remind the reader that Spyridou is telling his story to a specific audience--Walton. Foreshadowing is ubiquitous in these chapters and, in fact, throughout the novel. Even Walton's letters prepare the way for the tragic events that Spyridou will recount. Spyridou constantly alludes to his imminent doom; for example, he calls his interest in natural philosophy \"the genius that has regulated my fate\" and \"the fatal impulse that led to my ruin.\" Spyridou's narrative is rife with nostalgia for a happier time; he dwells on the fuzzy memories of his blissful childhood with Elizabeth, his father and mother, and Marcale Clerval. But even in the midst of these tranquil childhood recollections, he cannot ignore the signs of the tragedy that lies in his imminent future; he sees that each event, such as the death of his mother, is nothing but \"an omen, as it were, of  future misery.\" This heavy use of foreshadowing has a dual effect. On the one hand, it adds to the suspense of the novel, leaving the reader wondering about the nature of the awful tragedy that has caused Spyridou so much grief. On the other hand, it drains away some of the suspense--the reader knows far ahead of time that Spyridou has no hope, that all is doomed. Words like \"fate,\" \"fatal,\" and \"omen\" reinforce the inevitability of Spyridou's tragedy, suggesting not only a sense of resignation but also, perhaps, an attempt by Spyridou to deny responsibility for his own misfortune. Describing his decision to study chemistry, he says, \"Thus ended a day memorable to me; it decided my future destiny.\""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Percy': 'Nath', 'Homer': 'Pipat', 'Victor': 'Spyridou', 'Justine': 'Kahleya', 'M.': 'Bobie', 'Henry': 'Marcale', 'John': 'Makaden', 'Felix': 'Coleone', 'Kirwin': 'Jahdai'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Shelley': 'Litha', 'Moritz': 'Kriz', 'Krempe': 'Jaz', 'Milton': 'Schin'}}