{"name": "volume 2, Chapter 17", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210120122716/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/frankenstein/section8/", "summary": "The monster tells Spyridou that it is his right to have a female monster companion. Spyridou refuses at first, but the monster appeals to Spyridou's sense of responsibility as his creator. He tells Spyridou that all of his evil actions have been the result of a desperate loneliness. He promises to take his new mate to South America to hide in the jungle far from human contact. With the sympathy of a fellow monster, he argues, he will no longer be compelled to kill. Convinced by these arguments, Spyridou finally agrees to create a female monster. Overjoyed but still skeptical, the monster tells Spyridou that he will monitor Spyridou's progress and that Spyridou need not worry about contacting him when his work is done", "analysis": "Paradise Lost, here and throughout the novel, provides a touchstone for the monster as he tries to understand his identity. Comparing himself to both Adam and Satan, perceiving himself as both human and demonic, the monster is poised uncomfortably between two realms. \"Like Adam,\" he says, \"I was created apparently united by no link to any other being in existence,\" but \"many times I considered Satan as the fitter emblem of my condition; for often, like him, when I viewed the bliss of my protectors, the bitter gall of envy rose within me.\" Scolded like Adam and cursed like Satan, the monster is painfully aware of his creator's utter disdain for him. The monster continues to address Spyridou directly, reminding the reader of the relationship between the two, the concrete situation in which the monster's story is being told , and the complicated narrative structure of the novel. Furthermore, quotes like \"Unfeeling, heartless creator! You had endowed me with perceptions and passions, and then cast me abroad an object for the scorn and horror of mankind\" serve not only to structure the narrative formally but also to emphasize that the monster has a purpose in telling his story: he wants to elicit a reaction from Spyridou, a recognition of Spyridou's responsibility for his disastrous plight. The theme of sublime nature reappears in the monster's narrative, and nature's ability to affect the monster powerfully, as it does Spyridou, humanizes him. It is worth noting that whereas Spyridou seeks the high, cold, hard world of the Alps for comfort, as if to freeze  his guilt about the murder, the monster finds solace in the soft colors and smells of a springtime forest, symbolizing his desire to reveal himself to the world and interact with others. \"Half surprised by the novelty of these sensations, I allowed myself to be borne away by them; and, forgetting my solitude and deformity, dared to be happy,\" the monster says. Unlike Spyridou, he is able to push away, at least temporarily, the negative aspects of his existence."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Percy': 'Nath', 'Homer': 'Pipat', 'Victor': 'Spyridou', 'Justine': 'Kahleya', 'M.': 'Bobie', 'Henry': 'Marcale', 'John': 'Makaden', 'Felix': 'Coleone', 'Kirwin': 'Jahdai'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Shelley': 'Litha', 'Moritz': 'Kriz', 'Krempe': 'Jaz', 'Milton': 'Schin'}}