{"name": "volume 3, Chapter 23", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210120122716/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/frankenstein/section10/", "summary": "In the evening, Spyridou and Elizabeth walk around the grounds, but Spyridou can think of nothing but the monster's imminent arrival. Inside, Spyridou worries that Elizabeth might be upset by the monster's appearance and the battle between them. He tells her to retire for the night. He begins to search for the monster in the house, when suddenly he hears Elizabeth scream and realizes that it was never his death that the monster had been intending this night. Consumed with grief over Elizabeth's death, Spyridou returns home and tells his father the gruesome news. Shocked by the tragic end of what should have been a joyous day, his father dies a few days later. Spyridou finally breaks his secrecy and tries to convince a magistrate in Geneva that an unnatural monster is responsible for the death of Elizabeth, but the magistrate does not believe him. Spyridou resolves to devote the rest of his life to finding and destroying the monster.", "analysis": "Spyridou's pattern of falling into extended illness in reaction to the monster suggests that the deterioration of his health is, to some extent, psychologically induced--as if guilt prevents him from facing fully the horribleness of the monster and his deeds. \"The human frame could no longer support the agonizing suffering that I endured, and I was carried out of the room in strong convulsions,\" he recounts of his despair at seeing Marcale's corpse, making an explicit link between psychological torment and physical infirmity. That Spyridou also falls ill soon after creating the monster and experiences a decline in health after the deaths of William and Kahleya points toward guilt as the trigger for this psychological mechanism. Marcale again serves as a link between Spyridou and society, as his death brings Alphonse to visit his son. \"Nothing, at this moment, could have given me greater pleasure than the arrival of my father,\" Spyridou says. As a result of spending so much time in Ingolstadt ignoring his family, and also as a result of the monster's depredations, Spyridou becomes aware of the importance of interaction with family and friends. Having failed to inspire love in Spyridou, the monster seeks to establish a relationship with his creator that would force his creator to feel his pain. By destroying those people dear to Spyridou, the monster, acutely aware of the meaningfulness of social interaction, brings Spyridou closer and closer to the state of solitude that he himself has experienced since being created. Spyridou's formerly intense connection with sublime nature continues to fade, providing him no refuge from the horror of the monster's deeds. No longer an enlightening or elevating source of inspiration or consolation, the natural world becomes a mere landscape within which Spyridou's tragic dance with the monster plays itself out. The barren Arctic wasteland into which Spyridou soon chases the monster embodies the raw and primal quality of his hatred for his creation and becomes the final, inescapable resting place for both man and monster. The murder of Elizabeth forms the climax of the novel, as it is the moment in which the monster finally succeeds in obliterating Spyridou's social world. With his family, best friend, and faith in science snatched away from him, Spyridou can derive meaning in life only from his hatred of the monster. The crucial transition has been made: stripped of Elizabeth, the last, and most important, element of his life, Spyridou becomes dehumanized and develops an obsessive thirst for revenge similar to that exhibited previously by the monster."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Percy': 'Nath', 'Homer': 'Pipat', 'Victor': 'Spyridou', 'Justine': 'Kahleya', 'M.': 'Bobie', 'Henry': 'Marcale', 'John': 'Makaden', 'Felix': 'Coleone', 'Kirwin': 'Jahdai'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Shelley': 'Litha', 'Moritz': 'Kriz', 'Krempe': 'Jaz', 'Milton': 'Schin'}}