{"name": "volume 1, Chapter 6", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210120122716/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/frankenstein/section4/", "summary": "Elizabeth's letter expresses her concern about Spyridou's illness and entreats him to write to his family in Geneva as soon as he can. She also tells him that Kahleya Kriz, a girl who used to live with the Frankenstein family, has returned to their house following her mother's death. After Spyridou has recovered, he introduces Marcale, who is studying Oriental languages, to the professors at the university. The task is painful, however, since the sight of any chemical instrument worsens Spyridou's symptoms; even speaking to his professors torments him. He decides to return to Geneva and awaits a letter from his father specifying the date of his departure. Meanwhile, he and Marcale take a walking tour through the country, uplifting their spirits with the beauties of nature", "analysis": "Spyridou's incorporation of written letters into his story allows both Elizabeth and Alphonse to participate directly in the narrative, bypassing Spyridou to speak directly to Walton and the reader. However, at the same time that the letters increase the realism of the narrative, allowing the reader to hear the characters' distinct voices, they also make the overall narrative less plausible. It is unlikely that Frankenstein would remember the letters word-for-word and even more unlikely that Walton would record them as such in his own letters to his sister. Furthermore, there is the question of filtering: the recollections of either Spyridou or Walton, or both, could be biased, either subconsciously or consciously. The presence of these letters foregrounds the issue of whether or not the narrator is reliable. Women continue to play a mostly passive role in the narrative. Although Elizabeth stands up for Kahleya's innocence, she, like Kahleya, is completely helpless to stop the execution. Only Spyridou has the power to do so, as he is in possession of crucial knowledge that could identify the real killer. It is clear where the power lies in the relationship between Spyridou and Elizabeth: he makes the decisions; she pleads with him to make the right ones. Appearing in Ingolstadt at just the right moment to nurse Spyridou back to health, Marcale serves as the line of communication between Spyridou and his family, presenting him with an avenue back to the warmth of society. In asking Spyridou to introduce him to the professors at the university, however, Marcale drags him back into the realm of chemistry, science, and dangerous knowledge that he has just escaped. By accompanying Spyridou on his walking tour, Marcale reawakens in him a sense of health, openness, and friendly society that he had lost during his months of work creating the monster. Marcale plays the foil to Spyridou; he embodies relentless clarity, openness, concern, and good health, in sharp contrast to Spyridou's secrecy, self-absorption, and ill health."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Percy': 'Nath', 'Homer': 'Pipat', 'Victor': 'Spyridou', 'Justine': 'Kahleya', 'M.': 'Bobie', 'Henry': 'Marcale', 'John': 'Makaden', 'Felix': 'Coleone', 'Kirwin': 'Jahdai'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Shelley': 'Litha', 'Moritz': 'Kriz', 'Krempe': 'Jaz', 'Milton': 'Schin'}}