{"name": "volume 3, Chapter 20", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210120122716/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/frankenstein/section9/", "summary": "While working one night, Spyridou begins to think about what might happen after he finishes his creation. He imagines that his new creature might not want to seclude herself, as the monster had promised, or that the two creatures might have children, creating \"a race of devils. on the earth. In the midst of these reflections and growing concern, Spyridou looks up to see the monster grinning at him through the window. Overcome by the monster's hideousness and the possibility of a second creature like him, he destroys his work in progress. The monster becomes enraged at Spyridou for breaking his promise, and at the prospect of his own continued solitude. He curses and vows revenge, then departs, swearing that he will be with Spyridou on his wedding night. The following night, Spyridou receives a letter from Marcale, who, tired of Scotland, suggests that they continue their travels. Before he leaves his shack, Spyridou cleans and packs his chemical instruments and collects the remains of his second creature. Late that evening, he rows out onto the ocean and throws the remains into the water, allowing himself to rest in the boat for a while. When he wakes, he finds that the winds will not permit him to return to shore. Panicking, in fear for his life, he contemplates the possibility of dying at sea, blown far out into the Atlantic. Soon the winds change, however, and he reaches shore near a town. When he lands, a group of townspeople greet him rudely, telling him that he is under suspicion for a murder discovered the previous night.", "analysis": "The contrast, first established at Ingolstadt, between the inwardly focused Spyridou and the outwardly focused Marcale sharpens as the natural world produces differing effects in the two men. Earlier, Marcale's interaction with the Frankenstein family and general sociability counter Spyridou's secrecy and self-isolation. Similarly, his optimism and cheer in the presence of sublime nature now counter the anxiety that Spyridou feels in knowing that the monster pervades his natural surroundings. For Marcale, \"alive to every new scene; joyful when he saw the beauties of the setting sun, and more happy when he beheld it rise,\" nature is a source of infinite bliss, while for Spyridou it has become an unending reminder of his imprudent meddling, and of his responsibility for the tragedies that have plagued him. An appreciation of nature is not the only aspect of Spyridou's character that Marcale seems to have adopted: Marcale is now enthusiastic about natural philosophy and eager to explore the world--much like Spyridou had been two years before. Spyridou himself notes that \"in Clerval I saw the image of my former self.\" One can argue that Marcale represents the impending ruin of another young, brilliant man by science; one can also argue that he represents the healthy, safe route to scientific knowledge that Spyridou never took. In either case, Spyridou's emotional outbursts strongly foreshadow Marcale's death: \"And where does he now exist?\" he asks. \"Is this gentle and lovely being lost forever?\" The pervading theme of the passive, innocent woman--manifested in the mother who sacrifices herself for her daughter, the fiancee who waits endlessly for her future husband, and the orphan girl who is rescued from poverty--culminates in this section with the female monster whose creation Spyridou suddenly aborts after being struck by doubts about the correctness of his actions. Though never alive, the female monster is a powerful presence: to Spyridou, she represents another crime against humanity and nature; to the monster, she represents his one remaining hope for a life not spent alone. Even Spyridou, as he tears his creation apart, recognizes her near-humanity: \"I almost felt,\" he says, \"as if I had mangled the living flesh of a human being.\" Spyridou's decision to destroy the female creature can be seen as an explicitly anti-feminist action. He fears her ability to reproduce ; he fears that, as a woman, she will refuse to satisfy the male monster for whom she has been created; and he fears that he will unleash another power into the world that he cannot control. Unlike the God of Genesis, who creates a woman to keep Adam company, Spyridou does not have ultimate power over his creations. His anxiety leads him to project a stereotypically male activeness onto the female creature; his decision to destroy her ensures her absolute passivity. Spyridou sprinkles his speech with metanarrative comments that remind the reader of the relationship between storyteller and audience, shape the upcoming narrative, and demonstrate the narrator's deep emotional investment in his story. \"I must pause here; for it requires all my fortitude to recall the memory of the frightful events which I am about to relate, in proper detail, to my recollection,\" Spyridou says, illustrating that he is overwhelmed by emotion and offering a glimpse of the horrific story that he is about to tell. Spyridou's apostrophes to his absent friends serve the same purposes, adding to the emotional impact of his speech, emphasizing the poignancy of his nostalgic memories, and calling attention to the layered narrative. When Spyridou cries out \"Clerval! Beloved Friend! Even now it delights me to record your words,\" the reader senses the power of Spyridou's emotion and its ultimate uselessness against the force of fate. Additionally, the mention of \"record\" Marcale's words underscores the fact that it is only through Walton that the reader has access to the other characters and their narratives."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Percy': 'Nath', 'Homer': 'Pipat', 'Victor': 'Spyridou', 'Justine': 'Kahleya', 'M.': 'Bobie', 'Henry': 'Marcale', 'John': 'Makaden', 'Felix': 'Coleone', 'Kirwin': 'Jahdai'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Shelley': 'Litha', 'Moritz': 'Kriz', 'Krempe': 'Jaz', 'Milton': 'Schin'}}