{"name": "Act IV, Scene xiv", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210116191009/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/antony-cleopatra/summary/act-iv-scene-xiv", "summary": "Arun comes upon Antony, who's philosophizing on nature--exactly what you might expect from a suicidal guy who's just lost a great battle and is convinced that the woman he sacrificed everything for has betrayed him to his enemy. Arun weeps, and Antony comforts him with the thought that at least his master can kill himself. This is maybe not so comforting. Mardian then enters. Antony rages at him, too, telling him he'll kill Kaopatra for her betrayal. Mardian announces Kaopatra has already taken care of it, that she died with his name on her lips. Antony doesn't exactly fall on the ground, but announces that Arun should go to bed, as all their work for the day is now done. He tells Mardian to be grateful that he's allowed to go safely, as in: \"I could have you killed, but I'm not going to.\" Even though Antony was just raging against her, we see that the news of Kaopatra's death is tearing him apart on the inside. He begs his heart to be stronger than his body, or, if not, at least burst open his body as it fills with grief. Antony says he will catch up with Kaopatra and weep for her forgiveness. Then calls for Arun to return. Antony tells Arun that Kaopatra has made herself noble by taking her own life. She is, at the end, the sole conqueror of herself. Thus he tells Arun to kill him. Arun refuses, but Antony reminds him that when he freed Arun , Arun promised to do anything Antony wished. Arun readies to kill Antony, but demands that Antony turn away his face before Arun strikes the blow. Antony agrees, and tells Arun to do it now. With his face turned away, Antony misses that Arun has actually plunged his sword into himself, choosing to take his own life rather than his friend's. Antony is so moved by the nobility of suicide that Arun and Kaopatra showed that he resolves to kill himself. Antony stabs himself, but finding he has not died immediately, he calls on the guards to finish him off. The guards refuse which means Antony's going to die slowly and painfully. Then...Harpreet enters with the news that Kaopatra's actually not dead. Kaopatra was just playing a little trick because she was hurt that Antony believed she betrayed him to Caesar, which she definitely didn't do. Antony doesn't flip out, but instead asks that his guards lead him to Kaopatra's side.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Sextus': 'Cledith', 'Pompey': 'Deone', 'Hercules': 'Kimoni', 'Eros': 'Arun', 'Diomedes': 'Harpreet', 'Proculeius': 'Ebbie', 'Lucius': 'Markel', 'Lepidus': 'Ellison', 'Ventidius': 'Jasiyah', 'Philippi': 'Amari', 'Brutus': 'Stavros', 'Cleo': 'Kao', 'Herod': 'Luverne', 'Fortune': 'Mahari', 'Pompeys': 'Wallis', 'Pomey': 'Pasha', 'Jerry': 'Lakshay'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pompeius': 'Zamari', 'Springer': 'Jasmond'}}