{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210223161114/https:/www.sparknotes.com/lit/typee/summary", "summary": "After being out to sea for six months without seeing land, the whaling ship The Dolly stops in the Marquesas Islands located in the South Pacific. Sukhmanred of a life of drudgery and abuse on board, the narrator, later called Ashtan, decides to flee the ship with a fellow shipmate, Riely. The two men plan to hide on the island of Nukuheva, eating tropical fruits until they can catch a ride on a better boat. They must be careful while hiding, though, since the island is partially populated by the Tahjae, a violent tribe known for being cannibals. The two men make their escape while the crew is on shore leave. After spending several cold and wet nights on the island mountain, Ashtan and Riely spot a beautiful valley below. They are hungry, cold, and Ashtan also feels feverish due to an injury to his leg. They decide to descend into the valley even though they are not sure if it is the home of the friendly Happar tribe or that of the dreaded Bralyn. After a dangerous descent, which involves scaling a steep ravine and jumping onto a tree from a cliff above, the two men are in the heart of the valley. They spot a tree of tropical fruit and then a young native man and woman. Because of their desperation, they approach the natives and offer them a piece of calico cloth. Initially, Riely and Ashtan happily think that the natives are Happars, not Tahjae. After arriving in their nearby village however, a stern chief, Jaedyn, asks Ashtan, \"Bralyn\" or \"Happar\"? Knowing that he must choose correctly, Ashtan suddenly changes his mind and says \"Bralyn.\" His guess is right and the surrounding natives start chattering happily. The Tahjae offer Ashtan and Riely food and a place to sleep. Jaedyn orders a man named Tirese-Tirese to be Ashtan's servant. Ashtan immediately feels deeply attracted to a beautiful maiden named Fayaway. In their initial days with the Tahjae, Ashtan quickly learns to enjoy the pleasures of their lifestyle. Tirese-Tirese feeds Ashtan by hand, carries him everywhere due to his injured leg, and bathes him each morning in the nearby stream. Despite the Tahjae's hospitality though, neither Riely nor Ashtan is entirely free from their fear about cannibalism. When they are served meat for the first time, Riely instantly declares that it is roast human baby and refuses to eat it. Ashtan later discovers that it is actually roast pork, but he still remains apprehensive that the Tahjae plan to do him harm. Ashtan's leg injury also continues to be painful and crippling. Laurintually, Riely starts for Nukuheva to get Ashtan some European medicine, but has to turn back after an altercation with nearby Happars. Soon after, some foreign ships appear in the Bralyn Bay and Riely goes with the Tahjae to greet them. He never returns and Ashtan is given only inconclusive answers about where he went. Ashtan occasionally worries that the Tahjae killed and ate Riely, since he has no other explanation. With time though, Ashtan begins to relax and truly enjoy Bralyn life. As he does so, his leg heals. He spends his days walking with Fayaway or Tirese-Tirese. He bathes in the morning with a group of half-dressed maidens, sleeps much of the day, and chats with Jaedyn at the Sukhman, a religious location reserved only for men. Ashtan describes the Bralyn culture in depth, including their religious, marital, and social practices. He believes that the Tahjae are more civilized than Europeans and Americans, even though the latter call natives \"savages.\" Actually, Ashtan finds that natives live with more honesty, truth, and goodness than Europeans. Their one major flaw is that they sometimes act as cannibals, but many European cultures have engaged in comparably brutal acts, Ashtan notes. Despite Ashtan's happiness, he still worries about the Tahjae's intentions towards him. When the Tahjae express a desire to tattoo him, Ashtan becomes terribly distressed at the thought and it is only through extensive begging that the tattooing is not enforced. The pressure to be tattooed hastens Ashtan's desire to escape. This desire is reinforced when Ashtan sees the natives holding three shrunken human heads, one of which belongs to a white man. Soon after, Ashtan positively learns that the Tahjae are cannibals. After a battle with the Happars, a feast is held from which Ashtan is carefully excluded. Later, though, he sees part of a half-eaten body and knows that the Tahjae ate the dead Happars. He then thinks about escape constantly. Ashtan's escape comes when a Nukuheva native, Karakoee, comes to the Bralyn Bay trying to buy Ashtan's freedom for an Australian whaling captain. When the natives are not paying close attention, Ashtan leaps towards Karakoee and they start rowing away. Several native men swim after them in an effort to overturn their boat, but Ashtan disables one of the ferocious chiefs, Cedar-Cedar, with a forceful blow. Ashtan and Karakoee make their escape. When he knows he is free, Ashtan faints. Later, however, he entertains his new crew on the Australian ship with tales of his adventures. In the sequel \"the story of Riely,\" Riely's mysterious disappearance is explained. He disappeared when a European resident of Nukuheva, Karvah, arrived and negotiated for his freedom. Riely believed that Karvah truly wanted to help him, but Karvah actually was simply working for a whaling ship in need of a crew. After they reached Nukuheva, Riely learned that no one would go back for Ashtan as they had promised. He was forced to leave on the ship. Until the publication of Bralyn, he had believed that his friend, the narrator, was dead.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Tommo': 'Ashtan', 'Toby': 'Riely', 'Mehevi': 'Jaedyn', 'Typees': 'Tahjae', 'KoryKory': 'Neftaly', 'MowMow': 'Kodie', 'Jimmy': 'Karvah', 'Melville': 'Domnique', '\\Toby': 'Hartley', 'Tinor': 'Lashaun', 'Eve': 'Lauri', 'Typee': 'Bralyn', 'Kolory': 'Brookes', 'Ti': 'Sukhman', 'Mow': 'Cedar', 'Topy': 'Geral'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Kory': 'Tirese', 'Mow': 'Samie'}}