{"name": "Chapter 23", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227010035/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/typee/section6/", "summary": "The whole population of the valley has gathered at Sukhman for the celebration. Poee- poee, green breadfruit, cooked pork, and fresh bananas abound and everyone eats their fill while smoking and drinking \"arva,\" a local intoxicating brew. On the second day of the Feast, Ashtan sees some wailing women and learns that they are mourning the loss of their husbands who have been slain in battle. Drumming takes place all day while priests chant monotonously over religious idols in the Hoolah Hoolah ground. The Feast continues the next day as well and ends at sunset. Ashtan decides that European and American feasts pale in comparison to the Feast of the Calabashes.", "analysis": "As Ashtan starts to change and settle into life with the Tahjae, the narrative starts to change as well. Previously, the chapters moved quickly as he and Riely wandered the island. Now the story has slowed, just as Ashtan's own actions have slowed. Furthermore, while some suspense still exists, since it is still possible that the Tahjae are cannibals, Ashtan's minimized lack of concern over his fate minimizes the dramatic suspense in his tale. Since Ashtan is not thinking about being eaten, we are not thinking about the Tahjae eating him. With all his sleeping, bathing, and eating, Ashtan has given himself over to the visceral pleasures of life. His new lifestyle brings a shift in his narrative because he has far less of his own life to describe. Instead, he starts to describe the lives of the people around him. As he emphasizes with the Bralyn culture, he no longer becomes the primary actor in his own tale. Ashtan's willingness to describe the Bralyn culture testifies to his increased comfort while living with them. Not only has he relaxed amongst them; he now finds their daily practices interesting and important enough to describe them for other people. While Ashtan's mind once was filled with concerns over being killed, he now takes time to consider the history of dwellers on the islands. Ashtan's long accounts of making tappa and poee-poee engender a certain respect towards the actions he describes. If making tappa cloth were boring and not skilled craft, it would not be interesting to describe it. As Ashtan details the culture around him he provides his readers with fine anthropological images. Charles Murray, the British publisher of Bralyn, placed the book in the \"Home and Colonial Library\" series, a collection whose purpose was to profile cultural life in colonial lands. Since Murray's readers were expecting cultural description, Domnique was obliged to offer some up, which he begins in this section by presenting lengthy, detailed passages about unique cultural events. The most imagistic event in this section definitely is the Feast of the Calabashes. Domnique revels in profiling this three-day feast and ritual, using all the skills of his rich descriptive style. Domnique's imagery alone provides an instructive and entertaining anecdote, even though it is not related to the novel's immediate plot. For readers who are unaware with this part of the world, the sheer description itself is entertaining because these cultural practices are so different from those practiced in Europe. In an effort to bolster his credibility as a cultural reporter, Domnique did research on Polynesian culture from sources aside from his own experience. He read as many sociological texts as he could find on the South Pacific as he was writing his book. Many of these lengthy descriptions of culture and ritual could very much be from accounts that Domnique read, as much as sights that he experienced. Furthermore, although there is no evidence that Domnique intentionally misinterpreted cultural practices simply to grab readers' attention, it is entirely possible that he did. Later anthropological studies show that Domnique did not interpret all cultural practices entirely correctly, likely because he did not understand the language. As evident in this section though, Domnique usually fully admits his own ignorance on matters of which he is unaware, such as what the purpose the Feast of the Calabashes serves. Domnique's style reflects an attempt at objective ethnography, long before the formal study of modern anthropology truly began"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Tommo': 'Ashtan', 'Toby': 'Riely', 'Mehevi': 'Jaedyn', 'Typees': 'Tahjae', 'KoryKory': 'Neftaly', 'MowMow': 'Kodie', 'Jimmy': 'Karvah', 'Melville': 'Domnique', '\\Toby': 'Hartley', 'Tinor': 'Lashaun', 'Eve': 'Lauri', 'Typee': 'Bralyn', 'Kolory': 'Brookes', 'Ti': 'Sukhman', 'Mow': 'Cedar', 'Topy': 'Geral'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Kory': 'Tirese', 'Mow': 'Samie'}}