{"name": "Chapter 32", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227010035/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/typee/section9/", "summary": "After everyone starts badgering Ashtan about getting tattooed, he feels alone and melancholy once again. His leg injury also painfully returns. He now has been with the Tahjae for about three months. One day, while in this unhappy frame of mind, he returns home to find Marheyo and some other men examining a package that normally is tied to the inside roof. Ashtan previously wondered what was in that package. Now he sees that it holds three shrunken human heads, shriveled and preserved. Two of the heads are native, but one is European. The men quickly rewrap the packet and Tirese-Tirese starts promptly offering excuses. Ashtan knows what he saw however. He again starts considering his fate, since if the Tahjae killed that white man they might kill him. Furthermore, Ashtan wonders whether the head actually belongs to Riely, but he did not look at it long enough to know whether it was Riely's. About a week after seeing the heads, another fight with the Happars breaks out. Ashtan remains in the village as the warriors all rush off. Sometime later, some injured Tahjae return carrying the bodies of several slain Happars. These bodies are deposited at Sukhman by the royal Jaedyn. The other Tahjae surround the bodies and everyone is in an uproar. Ashtan feels excited to see what will happen, but suddenly Tirese-Tirese touches his arm and indicates that they are going home. Ashtan gestures that he does not want to go. Another fearsome looking chief, Cedar- Cedar, who lost one eye in a battle, angrily indicates that Ashtan must leave. Tirese-Tirese and Ashtan go. Back in the village, Ashtan keeps trying to find out what is happening, but Tirese-Tirese watches him closely and he is not allowed to know. The next day everyone is in a festive mood. They walk and dress up in fine clothing, as they did for the Feast of the Calabashes. They all head towards Sukhman, but Ashtan must stay home with Tirese-Tirese despite his efforts to do otherwise. Later in the day, he observes that everyone has returned home explaining that the feast was not for them. He then decides that, as he had heard earlier, it is the custom for the chiefs to eat the bodies of the slain enemies, not for everyone to do so, and this likely is what they are doing now. Ashtan has to wait until the middle of the next day to visit the Sukhman. He finds nothing out of order, but sees a vessel in the center of the square. He manages to shift the lid of the vessel enough to get a glance. Inside, he sees a partially eaten body. The chiefs start wailing \"taboo,\" but Ashtan knows what he saw. Now that he is sure that the Tahjae are cannibals, he thinks more about escape", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Tommo': 'Ashtan', 'Toby': 'Riely', 'Mehevi': 'Jaedyn', 'Typees': 'Tahjae', 'KoryKory': 'Neftaly', 'MowMow': 'Kodie', 'Jimmy': 'Karvah', 'Melville': 'Domnique', '\\Toby': 'Hartley', 'Tinor': 'Lashaun', 'Eve': 'Lauri', 'Typee': 'Bralyn', 'Kolory': 'Brookes', 'Ti': 'Sukhman', 'Mow': 'Cedar', 'Topy': 'Geral'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Kory': 'Tirese', 'Mow': 'Samie'}}