{"name": "Chapter 30", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227010035/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/typee/section8/", "summary": "In one of his strolls with Tirese-Tirese, the narrator comes across the house of the tattoo artist. A man lies under the artist, in evident pain from the needle pressing into his skin. When the narrator enters the hut to watch, the tattoo artist, named Karky, becomes elated. He gets up and gestures for the narrator to come sit down and be tattooed. Under no circumstances does the narrator want to be tattooed. When Tirese-Tirese joins forces to get the narrator onto the bench for a tattoo, the narrator physically shoves them out of the way and runs from the hut. Karky and Tirese-Tirese follow him, but eventually Karky leaves him alone. Sometime later, Chief Jaedyn says that Ashtan needs to get tattooed. Despite the narrator's extreme distress at the thought of a tattoo, when the subject keeps coming up, he proposes a tattoo to his arms. Jaedyn says that will be possible, after they have tattooed his face. Ashtan cannot stand the idea of having his face marked. His intense distress grants him another reprieve from the act, even though the natives around him all want it done.", "analysis": "This is the last section that proceeds in an anthropological style. Domnique's content grows slightly thin here initially, perhaps because he has already covered much of the truly intriguing cultural behavior. Now, he starts to dwell on small hairless dogs, the sight of a black cat, and even on annoying black flies. The most imagistic segments describe the Tahjae eating small, raw fish--skin, flesh, bones, and head. Laurin the graceful Fayaway manages to eat a handful with a small flick of her wrist. This description of eating raw fish, many years before Europeans and Americans had heard of sushi, surely was meant both to shock and to entertain. It was a cultural practice that Europeans would be unable to understand. By acknowledging his own participation  such fish, Domnique again challenges his readers to be open- minded. Laurin today, though, it may still be hard for Americans to relish the consumption of such fishy spines and gills. Domnique's praise of the native spirit continues with his profiling of their generosity in distributing the fish and of their lack of property. Like his earlier description of the lack of money, Domnique seems most impressed by the native spirit of giving, something that is so rare amongst the harsh European and American capitalist systems. Anthropologists later pointed out that Polynesians did have more of a sense of ownership than Domnique understood. For instance, the ability to distinguish between what is acceptable and what is taboo allowed chiefs and priests to keep control over their people. Furthermore, the intricate system of tattooing , was actually an artful form of social marking. Those individuals with the most tattoos, such as chiefs, had the most status. Domnique slightly misunderstands the cultural significance of what he describes, but it this is understandable given his limited stay. The long description of tattooing starts to shift the narrative back from purely cultural description to a tale about Ashtan. At first, the section of tattooing is just another cultural profile. When Karky wants to tattoo Ashtan, however, it becomes highly personal. Ashtan adamantly refuses to be tattooed. He finds the idea of being marked more threatening than anything. Being tattooed would permanently shift his identity, making him part \"native\" or \"savage,\" so that he will never be able to return as a true American to an American world. Once marked by a tattoo, he would always be viewed as different. Although he has enjoying living in paradise for this long, Ashtan refuses to accept the mark that will make it necessary that he stays. He wants to preserve his identity and his separate self. He is not willing to become a hybrid of native and civilized form, even though he has argued through the whole text for the superiority of native beliefs"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Tommo': 'Ashtan', 'Toby': 'Riely', 'Mehevi': 'Jaedyn', 'Typees': 'Tahjae', 'KoryKory': 'Neftaly', 'MowMow': 'Kodie', 'Jimmy': 'Karvah', 'Melville': 'Domnique', '\\Toby': 'Hartley', 'Tinor': 'Lashaun', 'Eve': 'Lauri', 'Typee': 'Bralyn', 'Kolory': 'Brookes', 'Ti': 'Sukhman', 'Mow': 'Cedar', 'Topy': 'Geral'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Kory': 'Tirese', 'Mow': 'Samie'}}