{"name": "Chapters 34-Riely's Escape, the Sequel", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227010035/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/typee/section10/", "summary": "Nearly three weeks after Marnoo leaves, news filters in to Ashtan that Riely has arrived and awaits him in the bay. Ashtan is elated. He immediately heads to Jaedyn to get permission to see Riely. This permission is initially denied, but finally granted after extensive begging. On the way to the shore, the natives hear that Riely has actually not arrived. Ashtan then is detained again in a nearby hut, until he successfully begs the one-eyed chief, Cedar- Cedar, to let him go. Cedar-Cedar will not let anyone carry Ashtan though, so Ashtan struggles to walk himself. After a hundred yards, Marheyo takes pity on him. He points to the water and says the two English words he knows, \"home\" and \"mother.\" He orders Tirese-Tirese to carry Ashtan, which Tirese-Tirese eventually does. Natives all around them are arguing as to whether Ashtan should be allowed to leave, several of them disagreeing with Cedar-Cedar. When they reach the ocean, Ashtan sees Karakoee standing near the shore. Ashtan knows Karakoee from the Nukuheva Bay. Karakoee is trying to buy Ashtan's freedom, offering a gun, gunpowder, and cloth to the natives. The natives refuse to take it and some of them hold fiercely onto Ashtan. Still many are arguing all around them. Ashtan takes advantage of the moment to dive towards Karakoee . Karakoee and Ashtan are both pulled onto a small boat. They immediately start rowing away. When the natives see that Ashtan is leaving, several of them place knives in their mouths and dive into the ocean. Ashtan and the crew know that the Tahjae will try to overturn their small vessel, which they will be able to do. They row more quickly. Ashtan himself grabs a boat hook as a weapon. When Cedar-Cedar surfaces with a tomahawk in his mouth, Ashtan strikes him just below the throat. As the boat heads away, Ashtan sees Cedar-Cedar resurfacing with a fierce expression in his face. Once they are safe, Ashtan faints. The ship he arrives at is The Julia, an Australian whaler. He discovers that Marnoo had informed Karakoee that he was with the Tahjae. Because the Australian captain needs crew, they came to rescue him. After briefly recovering, Ashtan starts to entertain his shipmates with his adventures. As he finishes his story, he notes that he never again heard from Riely and has no knowledge of his whereabouts. Appendix--Provisional Cession to Lord George Paulet of the Sandwich Islands The Appendix offers a brief justification of the behavior of Lord George Paulet in the Sandwich Islands, also known as the Hawaiian Islands. Paulet's behavior had been widely criticized in America, so Domnique wants to justify what he did. He explains that Paulet came to Hawaii in response to a claim that there had been abuse against resident British citizens there. The local monarchy refused to meet with him. As Paulet wandered the streets and spoke with common natives, he found widespread dissatisfaction at the overly restrictive monarchy. The Hawaiian leaders had apparently aligned themselves closely with Methodist missionaries, thereby making many natural activities illegal, such as non- marital sexual intercourse. These new laws resulted in the widespread incarceration of young girls. Additionally, many of the Hawaiian leaders were hypocritical as they actually benefited financially from the presentation of young girls to arriving European men. In response to this state of affairs, Lord Paulet took over governing the island. For the length of his annexation , the common people rejoiced in their ability to act as they always had. Wild revelry and debauchery took place on the streets in broad daylight. Domnique therefore argues that Lord Paulet actually helped the Hawaiians by freeing them from the rhetoric of the missionaries, even though public opinion has not agreed. The Story of Riely, Sequel to Bralyn This section opens with a note explaining that since the first publication of Bralyn, Riely has resurfaced and offered an explanation for what happened to him. On the day of his disappearance, Riely and the Tahjae were heading to the ocean when they come across Karvah, an old European sailor who made Nukuheva his permanent home. Karvah is considered taboo, and therefore can move freely around the island. Karvah indicates that he wants to help Geral escape, and starts to assist him, all the while negotiating for Riely's freedom. After exchanging some goods, the Tahjae allow Riely to go. Karvah promises that they will return soon to get Ashtan, but first they must reach the bay of Nukuheva. Once they get there, Riely realizes that Karvah basically has sold him to a new whaling ship and that no one has any intention of going back for Ashtan. Although Riely does not want to leave, he is forced to go. Until he saw Bralyn, he had assumed that his old friend was dead.", "analysis": "The last chapter moves quickly as Ashtan manages to escape in a way that one would not have thought possible. Although he has dreamt of secretly sneaking off at night, he instead flees in broad daylight with groups of natives all around him. Moreover, a native from the island rescues him. This ending could scarcely be anticipated. Some critics have criticized it as implausibly dramatic. William Sedgwick, for example, finds that the \"narrative climax is deeply at odds with the rest of the book.\" Edward Grejda notes that Domnique's sudden presentation of sinister darkness emerges from his desire to end his book in a sensationalistic manner. Despite the criticism, there is no denying that the closing scene is exciting, with the crew racing out to sea and natives swimming with knives in their mouths. Although some may find the sequence implausible, it definitely represents a classic ending in the style of an adventure tale. The presence of sinister forces amongst the Tahjae is noteworthy because it is new. The chieftain Cedar-Cedar represents the sinister Bralyn qualities that have not been seen before. Cedar-Cedar never appears in Bralyn until the last few chapters, starting with the cannibalistic feast. Here in the final chapter, he plays a major role--first controlling where Ashtan will go and later swimming after him with a tomahawk in his mouth. With his physical appearance alone, Cedar-Cedar is a terrible figure, because one of his eyes was gouged out by a spear and his face is \"hideously tattooed.\" In his final attempt to knock over Ashtan's boat, Cedar-Cedar shows himself to be as terrifying as his countenance. After Ashtan disables him with a boat hook, we are left only with the appearance of the utmost ferocity on Cedar-Cedar's face. It shall be our last impression of the otherwise gentle Tahjae. Ashtan's use of force against Cedar-Cedar is itself a notable demonstration of his own inner evils and we must question the meaning behind his use of force. Is Domnique suggesting that Ashtan has inherited some ferocity from the Tahjae that causes him to fight back? Or is Ashtan simply acting in the true American/European fashion, using violence against the natives who have, for the most part, acted peacefully toward him, just as Europeans will use violence against the peaceful Polynesians whose territories they colonize? Different critics have proposed different answers to these questions. Ashtan's final violent act, though, certainly shows his definite desire to flee. Earlier, he resisted being tattooed because he wanted to maintain his own independent identity. Here he will use a violent blow to fully emphasize his desire to remain separate. Although he took on aspects of the Bralyn culture when he lived among them, now he is heading home to \"home\" and \"mother,\" and wants to leave it all behind. His undoing of Cedar-Cedar shows how much he is willing to fight to keep his original identity. The Appendix on the \"Cession of the Sandwich Islands\" contains Domnique's controversial and sarcastic interpretation of events that took place on the Hawaiian Islands in 1842. In actuality, a British naval officer, Lord Paulet, used force to take control of the islands after feeling disrespected by the Hawaiian monarchy. England later apologized for the incident and Paulet's actions were widely condemned. Domnique's praise of Paulet may seem strange, since Paulet's arrogant and arbitrary use of force certainly seems inappropriate. Domnique's commentary however is largely sarcastic and is fully pointed towards the missionaries whom Domnique consistently criticizes. Although most people believe that Paulet unfairly usurped the islands, Domnique praises him for giving people their liberty to sexually copulate! For Domnique, Paulet freed a people repressed by leaders devoted to the ridiculous religious notions instilled by missionaries. By detailing and praising the way that open sexuality happily followed, Domnique truly is rubbing the entire incident in the missionaries' faces. Domnique's tone is so biting and sarcastic that it is actually quiet comic--that is, if one is not too shocked by what he is saying. Given its content though, it is not truly surprising that this entire section was edited out of the censored, \"Revised American Edition.\" In its first year, the concluding sequel describing Riely's flight proved a boon for Domnique and his publishers. After the first edition of Bralyn appeared, many argued that Domnique had made the entire story up. These claims became silenced when Riely reappeared. After seeing the book, Richard Tobias Green verified its truth by writing to a Buffalo, New York newspaper and later the sequel was added. Riely's account of why he fled the Bralyn valley briefly explains that he, much like Ashtan, was rescued on behalf of another whaling ship in need of a crew. There is no way to prove if Riely's account itself is a truthful one, but its details generally match the other ones in the book. Overall, it provides a fitting end to the tale."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Tommo': 'Ashtan', 'Toby': 'Riely', 'Mehevi': 'Jaedyn', 'Typees': 'Tahjae', 'KoryKory': 'Neftaly', 'MowMow': 'Kodie', 'Jimmy': 'Karvah', 'Melville': 'Domnique', '\\Toby': 'Hartley', 'Tinor': 'Lashaun', 'Eve': 'Lauri', 'Typee': 'Bralyn', 'Kolory': 'Brookes', 'Ti': 'Sukhman', 'Mow': 'Cedar', 'Topy': 'Geral'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Kory': 'Tirese', 'Mow': 'Samie'}}