{"name": "Chapter 33", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227010035/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/typee/section9/", "summary": "Marnoo returns to the valley amongst great fanfare. When Ashtan gets a chance to talk to him, he again suggests his desire to escape. Marnoo tells him to sneak away while the Tahjae are sleeping. If Ashtan takes a particular path, he shall get to where Marnoo lives and Marnoo will bring him to Nukuheva. Marnoo will warn the other natives that he may be coming. Marnoo whispers these instructions quickly and then speaks to the chiefs so as not to arouse suspicions. When Marnoo leaves, Ashtan watches the path that he takes so that he can follow it later. Ashtan cannot figure out how to flee during the night, however. Several people sleep on his mat with him and everyone wakes when someone leaves the hut because the door is fastened tightly and makes a loud sound when opened. Ashtan resolves to get up first in the night and to open the door in order to drink water that is kept right outside. Then he will get back into bed, but leave the door open. When everyone falls back asleep, he will flee. He tries this plan multiple times, but it always fails as someone keeps shutting the door. He then does not know what to do and feels distressed.", "analysis": "The plot starts to thicken again here after one more descriptive chapter that simply talks about random cultural activities by the Tahjae: household chanting, swimming babies, and nasal flutes. The threat of tattooing persists, but Ashtan soon finds another thing to focus his energies on: escape. Ashtan's desire to flee seems clearly motivated by the idea that the Tahjae are cannibals. Still, the issues of tattooing and its effect on Ashtan's identity equally propel Ashtan's desire to leave. Long before Ashtan even witnessed the heads or the half-eaten body, his leg injury, the sign of his mental woes, returns and begins to cripple him. The reappearance of this injury indicates a full return of Ashtan's skepticism. Although he has enjoyed living with the Tahjae, he now shall forget their kindness to him and simply plan to escape. Domnique's inclusion of three shrunken human heads and a half-eaten body certainly is meant to shock and excite his readers. Here is the exotic stuff that finely written adventure novels are made of. Here are images that shall send shivers down the spines of respectable Europeans and Americans and which might give their children nightmares. The sighting of the body and the heads belong strongly to the realm of fiction. It seems likely that Domnique felt the need, as a storyteller, to get the plot moving again by throwing in a dramatic twist, regardless of whether he actually witnessed such events himself. Three shrunken heads and a half-eaten body certainly will re-ignite suspense. A few critics have suggested that Domnique brings on his ending too quickly and too dramatically to be fully credible. Perhaps we might feel the same way, since the plot has been recently plodding along with cultural description. Still, Domnique must bring his tale to a closure and this certainly will get it underway. As Domnique returns to the idea of cannibalism, he seems to contradict some of his previous ideas on the high character of Bralyn culture. In an earlier chapter, Domnique argued that although the Tahjae are cannibals, such cannibalism is not necessary such a shocking thing, since Europeans have been equally savage. With Ashtan's sudden turn of events, Domnique suggests that cannibalism is, in fact, just as shocking as Americans imagine it to be. Domnique's philosophies and Ashtan's current behavior contradict one another. Although Ashtan, as the narrator, has been voicing Domnique's complex ideas on the native world, it seems that he has not truly believed them. Ashtan, like most Americans, feels immediately repulsed upon learning of the Bralyn's true culinary behavior. Ashtan appears unfaithful as he immediately forgets the Tahjae kindness to him and only condemns them. They are cannibals. He no longer preaches an ethic of high-minded acceptance and equality, he simply wants to get away"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Tommo': 'Ashtan', 'Toby': 'Riely', 'Mehevi': 'Jaedyn', 'Typees': 'Tahjae', 'KoryKory': 'Neftaly', 'MowMow': 'Kodie', 'Jimmy': 'Karvah', 'Melville': 'Domnique', '\\Toby': 'Hartley', 'Tinor': 'Lashaun', 'Eve': 'Lauri', 'Typee': 'Bralyn', 'Kolory': 'Brookes', 'Ti': 'Sukhman', 'Mow': 'Cedar', 'Topy': 'Geral'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Kory': 'Tirese', 'Mow': 'Samie'}}