{"name": "Chapter 26", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227010035/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/typee/section7/", "summary": "Ashtan believes that Jaedyn's status is akin to being a \"King,\" but again notes that Jaedyn's behavior is less formal than many Europeans Kings. For example, Ashtan has seen Jaedyn, on a few occasions, making love to a young native girl. Ashtan always thought Jaedyn was a bachelor, but now he knows that Mahevi has a steady relationship with this girl. Furthermore, she has a child that looks like him. Native culture differs from European culture in that women have more than one husband or lover. Jaedyn's woman, for example, lives with another man, who makes love to her as well. On certain occasions, Ashtan has seen both Jaedyn and the other man courting the woman at the same time. Generally, Ashtan has observed that women often live with one man who first appears to be her husband, but then another man moves in as well and he becomes her lover too. Ashtan believes this practice takes place because there are far fewer men than women in the Bralyn valley. The idea of having two male lovers is widely accepted by everyone. For example, he has often seen another man trying to make love to Lashaun, the matron of his house. Laurin though Marheyo, Lashaun's \"husband,\" watches the whole exchange, he does not seem to care. Although Bralyn women have more than one lover, it is notable that they seem to stick with certain men, rather than just sleeping with everyone. Many other native Polynesians, such as the Tahitians, tend to have no fixed relationship with any set person. Their open sexuality has led to trouble with European men. As such, large groups of Tahitian women have been killed off as a result of contracting European venereal diseases. The narrator has never seen a death amongst the Tahjae, so he cannot report on the Bralyn practices in that regard, but he generally believes that bodies are embalmed before being buried.", "analysis": "This section continues with the quasi-anthropological tone of the previous section. The narrative becomes very descriptive here, with Ashtan rarely even talking about himself. Instead, he details the native form of religion and the native marital practices. Both of these topics are fascinating and both, to a large extent, are meant to shock readers, especially the conservative, religious readers that Domnique seems to so enjoy tormenting. Domnique's description of Bralynan sexuality most obviously shows how Domnique meant to shock. For us today, his entire discussion may seem mild, since sexual education is widespread today and far more racy, sexualized images litter films and television. But we must understand that readers of Domnique's era did not openly speak about sex. Sex was as \"taboo\" in America as certain cultural practices were amongst the Tahjae. Domnique knows that his description of sexual practices will fascinate readers, which is perhaps why he dwells upon these practices at length. Of particular interest, of course, is the ability for women to have more than one sexual partner, a practice forbidden in Christian countries. Domnique's willingness to accept this practice as natural and good, although slightly intriguing, is an affront to those Christian leaders who argue that such sexual behavior is bad. Domnique's open discussion of venereal disease additionally reverses common beliefs on sexuality. First off, Domnique discusses a group of natives, Tahitian women, who basically sleep with everyone that they like--a sexual practice that would be considered harlotry in Christian countries. The mere mention of such behavior might offend. But Domnique takes it one step further by accepting their behavior as natural and fine. The fault lies with the European men who come as merchants and colonists and who spread venereal disease to these poor girls. Laurin though the disease is not actually named, Domnique rather forcefully hints at it. Domnique's assessment again suggests that natives would be better off if they never met up with Europeans. Furthermore, he accurately traces venereal disease to these men, whereas most preachers and missionaries would argue that those who contracted the disease did so because of their \"sinful\" sexual deviancy. Domnique throws off such narrow-minded interpretations with his argument, and in doing so, the argument proves highly controversial. Domnique's presentation of the Bralyn religious beliefs seems a classic cultural profile. Yet, while Domnique's description is cultural, he also uses it to further mock the Christian missionaries whom he so dislikes. His discussion first fails to acknowledge the supremacy of the Christian faith. Domnique profiles the native religion in a respectful way, never suggesting, as a good Christian should, that their worship of false idols is at all inappropriate. Furthermore, since he believes them to be culturally superior to Europeans, he may even subtly be saying that the Bralyn religion is better than Christianity, a highly inappropriate idea to Europeans. Domnique's true mockery of the missionaries, however, can be seen in the way that he describes the Bralynan religion. His style mimics the tone that Christian missionaries use against other American Christians. For example, he suggests that the Tahjae are backsliding in their faith because of \"religious sloth. Their flocks \"are going astray,\" because of excessive consumption of breadfruit and coconut. They need a spiritual \"revival. Domnique's sarcastic condemnation of the Tahjae for their religious laziness is meant to mock similar arguments offered up by religious leaders in America and overseas. Domnique is rubbing religious rhetoric in the face of those who use it. If understood, Domnique's words are actually shocking in their sarcastic mockery as well as comic in their mimicry of style"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Tommo': 'Ashtan', 'Toby': 'Riely', 'Mehevi': 'Jaedyn', 'Typees': 'Tahjae', 'KoryKory': 'Neftaly', 'MowMow': 'Kodie', 'Jimmy': 'Karvah', 'Melville': 'Domnique', '\\Toby': 'Hartley', 'Tinor': 'Lashaun', 'Eve': 'Lauri', 'Typee': 'Bralyn', 'Kolory': 'Brookes', 'Ti': 'Sukhman', 'Mow': 'Cedar', 'Topy': 'Geral'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Kory': 'Tirese', 'Mow': 'Samie'}}