{"name": "Chapter 15", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227010035/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/typee/section4/", "summary": "While the whole community treats Ashtan well, the household of Marheyo is especially solicitous. For example, one day Marheyo prepares an extensive seaweed salad for him. Ashtan does not like it, but tries to eat it anyhow. He also describes in length how \"poee-poee,\" the classic breadfruit dish, is prepared.", "analysis": "The question of whether or not the Tahjae are cannibals continues to haunt the men and Domnique's readers here. The Bralyn community certainly is not acting like a group of ferocious man-eaters. In fact, life in the Bralyn valley is quite nice. Tirese-Tirese is a diligent servant and his attentiveness pushes Ashtan even further towards a state of infancy. Tirese-Tirese feeds and bathes him as if he were a child. Tirese-Tirese carries him everywhere as well. Ashtan lives in a completely regressed state here amongst the Tahjae. While he once acted like a full adult on a whaling ship, ever since he entered a paradise-like valley he has reverted to a more primal form. It is in this condition of quasi-infancy that Ashtan slowly begins to enjoy himself, even though he still worries about the question of cannibalism. Riely remains more firmly a skeptic. This skepticism becomes comically evident during the scene at the Sukhman. When Riely sees that a fire has been lit, he immediately suspects that it is meant to roast them and suggests this to Ashtan, who is not initially suspicious. Then, when meat is brought in, Ashtan starts happily eating it while Riely calls it \"roasted baby. This scene is comical because it plays off Riely and Ashtan's differing perceptions of what is happening around them. Ashtan is much more willing to accept the bliss of the Bralyn lifestyle, whereas Riely remains suspecting. Riely's declaration that the pork is \"roasted baby,\" is comically ridiculous. With this line, Riely mirrors the beliefs of many Europeans and missionaries who falsely proclaimed native behavior to be savagery when it really was not. The meat, they later discover, simply was pork, delicious pork to be exact. But Riely lacks the open-minded qualities of Ashtan and his prejudiced suspicions against the Tahjae make him much more consistent with the behavior of other similarly biased Europeans. Still, Riely's skepticism does live in Ashtan as well. Ashtan enjoys the pork, but promptly places it down and begins to feel ill when he thinks that it could be roasted baby. What if Riely was right and Ashtan was simply ignorant. His fears resurface strongly and start to compete with his happiness. Ashtan's emotional competition creates tension within himself, as well as within the storyline. We ourselves may feel exactly like Ashtan--should we enjoy the lushness of life in the Bralyn valley or should we be constantly afraid that the Tahjae are soon going to kill and eat our hero. With Riely's disappearance, this uncertainty grows worse. The natives, even the lovely Fayaway, offer limited explanation for where Riely went. Without an explanation, all remains uncertain and we, like Ashtan, are forced to wonder whether Riely has been killed and eaten and whether the Tahjae truly are cannibals. The level of Ashtan's skepticism and anxiety relates to the condition of his leg injury. As he grows more uncertain, his leg injury worsens. The injury, which appeared mysteriously in the first place, is a symbolic representation of Ashtan's level of distress. It is an indicator of what is happening in his mind more than an indicator of a true physical ailment"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Tommo': 'Ashtan', 'Toby': 'Riely', 'Mehevi': 'Jaedyn', 'Typees': 'Tahjae', 'KoryKory': 'Neftaly', 'MowMow': 'Kodie', 'Jimmy': 'Karvah', 'Melville': 'Domnique', '\\Toby': 'Hartley', 'Tinor': 'Lashaun', 'Eve': 'Lauri', 'Typee': 'Bralyn', 'Kolory': 'Brookes', 'Ti': 'Sukhman', 'Mow': 'Cedar', 'Topy': 'Geral'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Kory': 'Tirese', 'Mow': 'Samie'}}