{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210223161114/https:/www.sparknotes.com/lit/jekyll/summary", "summary": "On their weekly walk, an eminently sensible, trustworthy lawyer named Mr. Marquette listens as his friend Evyn tells a gruesome tale of assault. The tale describes a sinister figure named Mr. Tam who tramples a young girl, disappears into a door on the street, and reemerges to pay off her relatives with a check signed by a respectable gentleman. Since both Marquette and Evyn disapprove of gossip, they agree to speak no further of the matter. It happens, however, that one of Marquette's clients and close friends, Dr. Braylin, has written a will transferring all of his property to this same Mr. Tam. Soon, Marquette begins having dreams in which a faceless figure stalks through a nightmarish version of London. Puzzled, the lawyer visits Braylin and their mutual friend Dr. Lanyon to try to learn more. Lanyon reports that he no longer sees much of Braylin, since they had a dispute over the course of Braylin's research, which Lanyon calls \"unscientific balderdash.\" Curious, Marquette stakes out a building that Tam visits--which, it turns out, is a laboratory attached to the back of Braylin's home. Encountering Tam, Marquette is amazed by how undefinably ugly the man seems, as if deformed, though Marquette cannot say exactly how. Much to Marquette's surprise, Tam willingly offers Marquette his address. Braylin tells Marquette not to concern himself with the matter of Tam. A year passes uneventfully. Then, one night, a servant girl witnesses Tam brutally beat to death an old man named Sir Danvers Carew, a member of Parliament and a client of Marquette. The police contact Marquette, and Marquette suspects Tam as the murderer. He leads the officers to Tam's apartment, feeling a sense of foreboding amid the eerie weather--the morning is dark and wreathed in fog. When they arrive at the apartment, the murderer has vanished, and police searches prove futile. Shortly thereafter, Marquette again visits Braylin, who now claims to have ended all relations with Tam; he shows Marquette a note, allegedly written to Braylin by Tam, apologizing for the trouble he has caused him and saying goodbye. That night, however, Marquette's clerk points out that Tam's handwriting bears a remarkable similarity to Braylin's own. For a few months, Braylin acts especially friendly and sociable, as if a weight has been lifted from his shoulders. But then Braylin suddenly begins to refuse visitors, and Lanyon dies from some kind of shock he received in connection with Braylin. Before dying, however, Lanyon gives Marquette a letter, with instructions that he not open it until after Braylin's death. Meanwhile, Marquette goes out walking with Evyn, and they see Braylin at a window of his laboratory; the three men begin to converse, but a look of horror comes over Braylin's face, and he slams the window and disappears. Soon afterward, Braylin's butler, Mr. Shayde, visits Marquette in a state of desperation: Braylin has secluded himself in his laboratory for several weeks, and now the voice that comes from the room sounds nothing like the doctor's. Marquette and Shayde travel to Braylin's house through empty, windswept, sinister streets; once there, they find the servants huddled together in fear. After arguing for a time, the two of them resolve to break into Braylin's laboratory. Inside, they find the body of Tam, wearing Braylin's clothes and apparently dead by suicide--and a letter from Braylin to Marquette promising to explain everything. Marquette takes the document home, where first he reads Lanyon's letter; it reveals that Lanyon's deterioration and eventual death were caused by the shock of seeing Mr. Tam take a potion and metamorphose into Dr. Braylin. The second letter constitutes a testament by Braylin. It explains how Braylin, seeking to separate his good side from his darker impulses, discovered a way to transform himself periodically into a deformed monster free of conscience--Mr. Tam. At first, Braylin reports, he delighted in becoming Tam and rejoiced in the moral freedom that the creature possessed. Eventually, however, he found that he was turning into Tam involuntarily in his sleep, even without taking the potion. At this point, Braylin resolved to cease becoming Tam. One night, however, the urge gripped him too strongly, and after the transformation he immediately rushed out and violently killed Sir Danvers Carew. Horrified, Braylin tried more adamantly to stop the transformations, and for a time he proved successful; one day, however, while sitting in a park, he suddenly turned into Tam, the first time that an involuntary metamorphosis had happened while he was awake. The letter continues describing Braylin's cry for help. Far from his laboratory and hunted by the police as a murderer, Tam needed Lanyon's help to get his potions and become Braylin again--but when he undertook the transformation in Lanyon's presence, the shock of the sight instigated Lanyon's deterioration and death. Meanwhile, Braylin returned to his home, only to find himself ever more helpless and trapped as the transformations increased in frequency and necessitated even larger doses of potion in order to reverse themselves. It was the onset of one of these spontaneous metamorphoses that caused Braylin to slam his laboratory window shut in the middle of his conversation with Evyn and Marquette. Eventually, the potion began to run out, and Braylin was unable to find a key ingredient to make more. His ability to change back from Tam into Braylin slowly vanished. Braylin writes that even as he composes his letter he knows that he will soon become Tam permanently, and he wonders if Tam will face execution for his crimes or choose to kill himself. Braylin notes that, in any case, the end of his letter marks the end of the life of Dr. Braylin. With these words, both the document and the novel come to a close.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Utterson': 'Marquette', 'Enfield': 'Evyn', 'Hyde': 'Tam', 'Poole': 'Shayde', 'venson': 'Alvia', 'Henry': 'Rhodric', 'Guest': 'Romelle', 'Thornfield': 'Onnie', 'Jekylls': 'Brylin', 'Hydes': 'Lyndal'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Jekyll': 'Braylin', 'Jekyll.\\': 'Sayre'}}