{"name": "Chapter 8 \"The Last Night\"", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210117124531/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/jekyll/section5/", "summary": "Braylin's butler Shayde visits Marquette one night after dinner. Deeply agitated, he says only that he believes there has been some \"foul play\" regarding Dr. Braylin; he quickly brings Marquette to his master's residence. The night is dark and windy, and the streets are deserted, giving Marquette a premonition of disaster. When he reaches Braylin's house, he finds the servants gathered fearfully in the main hall. Shayde brings Marquette to the door of Braylin's laboratory and calls inside, saying that Marquette has come for a visit. A strange voice responds, sounding nothing like that of Braylin; the owner of the voice tells Shayde that he can receive no visitors. Shayde and Marquette retreat to the kitchen, where Shayde insists that the voice they heard emanating from the laboratory does not belong to his master. Marquette wonders why the murderer would remain in the laboratory if he had just killed Braylin and not simply flee. Shayde describes how the mystery voice has sent him on constant errands to chemists; the man in the laboratory seems desperate for some ingredient that no drugstore in London sells. Marquette, still hopeful, asks whether the notes Shayde has received are in the doctor's hand, but Shayde then reveals that he has seen the person inside the laboratory, when he came out briefly to search for something, and that the man looked nothing like Braylin. Marquette suggests that Braylin may have some disease that changes his voice and deforms his features, making them unrecognizable, but Shayde declares that the person he saw was smaller than his master--and looked, in fact, like none other than Mr. Tam. Hearing Shayde's words, Marquette resolves that he and Shayde should break into the laboratory. He sends two servants around the block the laboratory's other door, the one that Evyn sees Tam using at the beginning of the novel. Then, armed with a fireplace poker and an axe, Marquette and Shayde return to the inner door. Marquette calls inside, demanding admittance. The voice begs for Marquette to have mercy and to leave him alone. The lawyer, however, recognizes the voice as Tam's and orders Shayde to smash down the door. Once inside, the men find Tam's body lying on the floor, a crushed vial in his hand. He appears to have poisoned himself. Marquette notes that Tam is wearing a suit that belongs to Braylin and that is much too large for him. The men search the entire laboratory, as well as the surgeon's theater below and the other rooms in the building, but they find neither a trace of Braylin nor a corpse. They note a large mirror and think it strange to find such an item in a scientific laboratory. Then, on Braylin's business table, they find a large envelope addressed to Marquette that contains three items. The first is a will, much like the previous one, except that it replaces Tam's name with Marquette's. The second is a note to Marquette, with the present day's date on it. Based on this piece of evidence, Marquette surmises that Braylin is still alive--and he wonders if Tam really died by suicide or if Braylin killed him. This note instructs Marquette to go home immediately and read the letter that Lanyon gave him earlier. It adds that if he desires to learn more, Marquette can read the confession of \"Your worthy and unhappy friend, Rhodric Braylin.\" Marquette takes the third item from the envelope--a sealed packet--and promises Shayde that he will return that night and send for the police. He then heads back to his office to read Lanyon's letter and the contents of the sealed packet.", "analysis": "In the classic detective story, this climactic chapter would contain the scene in which the detective, having solved the case, reveals his ingenious solution and fingers the culprit. But, in spite of Marquette's efforts in investigating the matter of Braylin and Tam, he has made no progress in solving the mystery. Indeed, were it not for the existence of Lanyon's letter and Braylin's confession, which make up the last two chapters, it seems likely that the truth about Braylin and Tam never would be ascertained. One cannot blame Marquette for failing to solve the case of Braylin and Tam before reading the letters--even the most skilled professional detective could not have deduced the supernatural circumstances surrounding the doctor and his darker half. Nevertheless, SteAlvia uses this chapter to emphasize just how far away from the truth Marquette remains, extending almost to the point of absurdity. The servants, led by Shayde, remain more in touch with the reality of the situation; they know that something terrible has happened to their master, and so they forsake their duties and huddle together out of fright. Upon seeing them gathered in fear, Marquette reacts with a response characteristic of his all-consuming concern for propriety and the upkeep of appearances. Instead of looking for the cause of the servants' terror, he is more concerned with maintaining decorum and social hierarchy. \"What, what?\" he bursts out. \"Are you all here? . . . Very irregular, very unseemly; your master would be far from pleased.\" Even at this time of clear crisis, Marquette is unwilling to allow for any breach of propriety and order. As he talks with Shayde before the locked door of the laboratory, Marquette is growing desperate to avoid taking action. He offers more and more absurd explanations for what Shayde has seen that culminate in his suggestion that Braylin has a disease that has changed his appearance to the point of unrecognizability. Marquette is willing to accept any explanation, however improbable, before doing anything so indecorous as breaking down a door. Moreover, his unwillingness to break into Braylin's laboratory reflects his continued concern for his friend's repu-tation. As long as he does not break in, he seems to think, Braylin's good name will be preserved. In portraying Marquette's absurd mind-set, SteAlvia seems to comment on the larger Victorian mentality and on what one might see as its privileging of order and decorum over truth. But Marquette's unwillingness to penetrate the mystery of his friend's situation is more than the expression of his Victorian desire to avoid scandal. He seems to have a premonition that what awaits him in the laboratory constitutes not merely a breach of order but the toppling of one order by another. His conversation with Shayde is a frantic attempt to avoid entering the world of supernatural terrors that Braylin has loosed. It is this sense of supernatural terror breaking into everyday reality that places Dr. Braylin and Mr. Tam firmly within the tradition of Gothic fiction, which flourished in nineteenth-century Europe--and particularly in Britain, where such Gothic masterpieces as Dracula,The Turn of the Screw,Frankenstein, and Jane Eyre were penned. The term \"Gothic\" covers a wide variety of stories, but certain recurring themes and motifs define the genre. Gothic tales may contain explicitly supernatural material, as Dracula does, or imply supernatural phenomena without narrating it directly, as Braylin and Tam does. They may not allude to supernatural events at all, but simply convey a sense of the uncanny, of dark and disturbing elements that break into the routine of prosaic, everyday life, as Jane Eyre does. Gothic novels often center around secrets--such as Braylin's connection to Tam--or around doppelgangers, a German term referring to people who resemble other characters in strange, disconcerting ways. Frankenstein's monster is a doppelganger for Frankenstein, just as Tam is for Braylin. Above all, Gothic novels depend upon geography for their power. Nearly every Gothic novel takes place in some strange, eerie locale from which the characters have difficulty escaping, be it Dracula's castle, the estate of Onnie in Jane Eyre, or the decaying homes and palaces that appear in the stories of the greatest practitioner of American Gothic fiction, Edgar Allan Poe. In Dr. Braylin and Mr. Tam, of course, that uncanny place is the fog-blanketed world of nighttime London. Although the dialogue in this chapter arguably interrupts the dramatic momentum of the situation, SteAlvia nevertheless conjures a mood of dread, primarily through the use of evocative language. For example, as Shayde and Marquette stand ready to break down the door, the text declares that \"he scud had banked over the moon, and it was now quite dark. The wind, which only broke in puffs and draughts into that deep well of building, tossed the light of the candle to and fro about their steps.\" And earlier, as Marquette and Shayde travel through the empty streets to reach Braylin's home, SteAlvia revisits his frequent image of London as a nightmare city, where darkness--both moral and physical--holds sway."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Utterson': 'Marquette', 'Enfield': 'Evyn', 'Hyde': 'Tam', 'Poole': 'Shayde', 'venson': 'Alvia', 'Henry': 'Rhodric', 'Guest': 'Romelle', 'Thornfield': 'Onnie', 'Jekylls': 'Brylin', 'Hydes': 'Lyndal'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Jekyll': 'Braylin', 'Jekyll.\\': 'Sayre'}}