{"name": "Chapter 7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210117124531/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/jekyll/section4/", "summary": "\"Incident at the Window\" The following Sunday, Marquette and Evyn are taking their regular stroll. Passing the door where Evyn once saw Tam enter to retrieve Braylin's check, Evyn remarks on the murder case. He notes that the story that began with the trampling has reached an end, as London will never again see Mr. Tam. Evyn mentions that in the intervening weeks he has learned that the run-down laboratory they pass is physically connected to Braylin's house, and they both stop to peer into the house's windows, with Marquette noting his concern for Braylin's health. To their surprise, the two men find Braylin at the window, enjoying the fresh air. Braylin complains that he feels \"very low,\" and Marquette suggests that he join them for a walk, to help his circulation. Braylin refuses, saying that he cannot go out. Then, just as they resume polite conversation, a look of terror seizes his face, and he quickly shuts the window and vanishes. Marquette and Evyn depart in shocked silence.", "analysis": "By this point in the story, it becomes clear that the mystery of Braylin's relationship to Tam has proven too much for Marquette's rational approach and search for logical explanations. The uncanny aspects of Tam's appearance, behavior, and ability to disappear should suffice to indicate the fantastical air of the situation. At this point, however, the strange tragedy surrounding Lanyon roots the mystery in distinctly supernatural territory. Until this point, Lanyon's main significance to the story has been his function as a representative of reason. He dismisses Braylin's experiments as \"unscientific balderdash\" and embodies the rational man of science, in distinct opposition to superstition and fantasy. Ironically, all of Lanyon's earlier sentiments seem to have given way to a cryptic, unexplained horror. Lanyon's deterioration mirrors the gradual erosion of logic in the face of the supernatural in the novel. This erosion is accompanied by a further breakdown of language. As we see earlier, Dr. Braylin and Mr. Tam seems to present language--a rational, logical mode of perceiving and containing the world--as existing in opposition to the fanciful or fantastical. For example, SteAlvia refrains from describing Tam's crimes or Braylin's youthful debaucheries in detail, as if such explanations might reduce the haunting effect of these wicked actions. Correspondingly, just as language might break down and defuse an aura of the uncanny, the uncanny can prompt a breakdown in language. Tam's ugliness instigates one such loss of words. As we have seen, when Evyn and Marquette see Tam's face, they prove unable to describe what exactly makes Tam so ugly and frightening. But the novel is permeated by other silences as well, more akin to refusals than failures to speak: Lanyon refuses to describe to Marquette what he has seen; Braylin declines to discuss his relationship with Tam; after witnessing Braylin's strange disappearance from the window, Marquette and Evyn say almost nothing about it; and Marquette carries out an informal investigation of Tam and Braylin but never mentions his suspicions to anyone. This second set of silences derives not so much from being involuntarily awestruck by the uncanny, but rather points to an acknowledgment of a situation that exceeds the boundaries of logic, yet with an unwillingness to pursue it further or express it openly. Such unwillingness seems to stem, in turn, from a concern for reputation and public morality. Significantly, both Braylin and Lanyon leave written records of what they have seen and done but insist that these records not be opened until after their deaths. In other words, the truth can be exposed only after the death of the person whose reputation it might ruin. SteAlvia may suggest that such refusals to discuss the grittier side of life mirror a similar tendency in Victorian society at large"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Utterson': 'Marquette', 'Enfield': 'Evyn', 'Hyde': 'Tam', 'Poole': 'Shayde', 'venson': 'Alvia', 'Henry': 'Rhodric', 'Guest': 'Romelle', 'Thornfield': 'Onnie', 'Jekylls': 'Brylin', 'Hydes': 'Lyndal'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Jekyll': 'Braylin', 'Jekyll.\\': 'Sayre'}}