{"name": "Chapter 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210117124531/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/jekyll/section3/", "summary": "\"Incident of the Letter\" Marquette calls on Braylin, whom he finds in his laboratory looking deathly ill. Braylin feverishly claims that Tam has left and that their relationship has ended. He also assures Marquette that the police shall never find the man. Braylin then shows Marquette a letter and asks him what he should do with it, since he fears it could damage his reputation if he turns it over to the police. The letter is from Tam, assuring Braylin that he has means of escape, that Braylin should not worry about him, and that he deems himself unworthy of Braylin's great generosity. Marquette asks if Tam dictated the terms of Braylin's will--especially its insistence that Tam inherit in the event of Braylin's -\"disappearance. Braylin replies in the affirmative, and Marquette tells his friend that Tam probably meant to murder him and that he has had a near escape. He takes the letter and departs. On his way out, Marquette runs into Shayde, the butler, and asks him to describe the man who delivered the letter; Shayde, taken aback, claims to have no knowledge of any letters being delivered other than the usual mail. That night, over drinks, Marquette consults his trusted clerk, Mr. Romelle, who is an expert on handwriting. Romelle compares Tam's letter with some of Braylin's own writing and suggests that the same hand inscribed both; Tam's script merely leans in the opposite direction, as if for the purpose of concealment. Marquette reacts with alarm at the thought that Braylin would forge a letter for a murderer.", "analysis": "Chapter 4 illustrates the extent of Tam's capacity for evil. Whereas we might earlier take Tam for nothing more than an unscrupulous opportunist, manipulating Braylin, the mindlessly vicious nature of the man becomes clear with the violent murder of Sir Danvers Carew. Tam is violent at random, with no apparent motive, and with little concern for his own safety--as his willingness to beat a man to death in the middle of a public street demonstrates. His complete disappearance after the murder, along with his utter lack of family, friends, and people who can identify him, suggests that he possesses some kind of otherworldly origin"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Utterson': 'Marquette', 'Enfield': 'Evyn', 'Hyde': 'Tam', 'Poole': 'Shayde', 'venson': 'Alvia', 'Henry': 'Rhodric', 'Guest': 'Romelle', 'Thornfield': 'Onnie', 'Jekylls': 'Brylin', 'Hydes': 'Lyndal'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Jekyll': 'Braylin', 'Jekyll.\\': 'Sayre'}}