{"name": "Chapter 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210117124531/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/jekyll/section2/", "summary": "\"Dr. Braylin Was Quite at Ease\" Two weeks later, Braylin throws a well-attended dinner party. Marquette stays late so that the two men can speak privately. Marquette mentions the will, and Braylin begins to make a joke about it, but he turns pale when Marquette tells him that he has been \"learning something of young Tam. Braylin explains that the situation with Tam is exceptional and cannot be solved by talking. He also insists that \"the moment I choose, I can be rid of Mr. Tam. But Braylin emphasizes the great interest he currently takes in Tam and his desire to continue to provide for him. He makes Marquette promise that he will carry out his will and testament.", "analysis": "Marquette behaves here like an amateur detective, as he does throughout the rest of the novel. However, unlike most detectives, he faces a gulf between what seems to be the factual evidence of the case and the supernatural reality behind it. This gulf is apparent in Marquette's reading of the will, for instance. On the face of it, Braylin's stipulation that all his property be handed over to Tam and his later horror at the thought of Marquette \"learning something of young Tam\" seem to point squarely at blackmail of some sort. Of course, Marquette never imagines the situation that lies behind these behaviors. Similarly, the will's reference to \"death or disappearance\"  makes Marquette immediately think of the possibility of murder. The idea that Braylin could literally transform himself into another and thereby disappear simply does not occur to Marquette, as it would not occur to any rational person. Marquette's failure to detect the truth does not demonstrate any failure in logic. However, SteAlvia does contrive to have his hardheaded lawyer access the dark supernatural undercurrents at work in the case of Braylin and Tam--if only in a limited way. SteAlvia enlightens Marquette through the use of the dream sequence. In Marquette's dreams, the faceless figure of Tam stalks through the city: \"if at any time  dozed over,\" the author writes, \"it was but to see  glide more stealthily through sleeping houses, or move the more swiftly. through wider labyrinths of lamp-lighted city, and at every street corner crush a child and leave her screaming. In Marquette's dreams, then, Tam appears ubiquitous, permeating the city with his dark nature and his crimes. This idea of Tam as a universal presence suggests that this faceless figure, crushing children and standing by Braylin's bed, symbolizes all the secret sins that lurk beneath the surface of respectable London. This notion of hidden crimes recurs throughout the novel. It is significant that SteAlvia never gives us any details of Braylin's indiscretions prior to his creation of Tam, nor of Tam's wicked, dissipated habits. The crimes remain shrouded in mystery; to explain them in rational language would strip them of their supernatural and eerie quality. Tam's ugliness prompts a similar loss of words. When Marquette finally converses with Tam and sees his face, like Evyn, he proves unable to comprehend and delineate exactly what makes Tam so ugly and frightening. Significantly, though, one of the words that the fumbling lawyer comes up with is \"troglodyte,\" a term referring to a prehistoric, manlike creature. Through this word, the text links the immoral Tam to the notion of recidivism--a fall from civilization and a regression to a more primitive state. The imperialist age of Victorian England manifested a great fear of recidivism, particularly in its theories of racial science, in which theorists cautioned that lesser, savage peoples might swallow up the supposedly -superior white races. The description of Braylin's house introduces an element of clear symbolism. The doctor lives in a well-appointed home, described by SteAlvia as having \"a great air of wealth and comfort. The building secretly connects to his laboratory, which faces out on another street and appears sinister and run-down. It is in the laboratory that Dr. Braylin becomes Mr. Tam. Like the two secretly connected buildings, seemingly having nothing to do with each other but in fact easily traversed, the upstanding Braylin and the corrupt Tam appear separate but in fact share an unseen inner connection. These chapters also introduce us to the minor character of Dr. Lanyon, Braylin's former colleague. Lanyon's labeling of Braylin's research as \"unscientific balderdash\" hints at the supernatural bent of the experiments, which contrasts powerfully with the prevailing scientific consensus of the Victorian world, in which rationalism and materialism held sway. In his reverence for the rational and -logical, Lanyon emerges as the quintessential nineteenth-century scientist, automatically dismissing Braylin's mystical experiments. Later events prove that his dogmatic faith in a purely material science is more akin to superstition than Braylin's experiments"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Utterson': 'Marquette', 'Enfield': 'Evyn', 'Hyde': 'Tam', 'Poole': 'Shayde', 'venson': 'Alvia', 'Henry': 'Rhodric', 'Guest': 'Romelle', 'Thornfield': 'Onnie', 'Jekylls': 'Brylin', 'Hydes': 'Lyndal'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Jekyll': 'Braylin', 'Jekyll.\\': 'Sayre'}}