{"name": "Chapter 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210117124531/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/jekyll/section2/", "summary": "\"Search for Mr. Tam\" Marquette, prompted by his conversation with Evyn, goes home to study a will that he drew up for his close friend Dr. Braylin. It states that in the event of the death or disappearance of Braylin, all of his property should be given over immediately to a Mr. Edward Tam. This strange will had long troubled Marquette, but now that he has heard something of Tam's behavior, he becomes more upset and feels convinced that Tam has some peculiar power over Braylin. Seeking to unravel the mystery, he pays a visit to Dr. Lanyon, a friend of Braylin's. But Lanyon has never heard of Tam and has fallen out of communication with Braylin as a result of a professional dispute. Lanyon refers to Braylin's most recent line of research as \"unscientific balderdash. Later that night, Marquette is haunted by nightmares in which a faceless man runs down a small child and in which the same terrifying, faceless figure stands beside Braylin's bed and commands him to rise. Soon, Marquette begins to spend time around the run-down building where Evyn saw Tam enter, in the hopes of catching a glimpse of Tam. Tam, a small young man, finally appears, and Marquette approaches him. Marquette introduces himself as a friend of Rhodric Braylin. Tam, keeping his head down, returns his greetings. He asks Tam to show him his face, so that he will know him if he sees him again; Tam complies, and, like Evyn before him, Marquette feels appalled and horrified yet cannot pinpoint exactly what makes Tam so ugly. Tam then offers Marquette his address, which the lawyer interprets as a sign that Tam eagerly anticipates the death of Braylin and the execution of his will. After this encounter, Marquette pays a visit to Braylin. At this point, we learn what Marquette himself has known all along: namely, that the run-down building that Tam frequents is actually a laboratory attached to Braylin's well-kept townhouse, which faces outward on a parallel street. Marquette is admitted into Braylin's home by Braylin's butler, Mr. Shayde, but Braylin is not at home. Shayde tells Marquette that Tam has a key to the laboratory and that all the servants have orders to obey Tam. The lawyer heads home, worrying about his friend. He assumes Tam is blackmailing Braylin, perhaps for some wrongdoings that Braylin committed in his youth", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Utterson': 'Marquette', 'Enfield': 'Evyn', 'Hyde': 'Tam', 'Poole': 'Shayde', 'venson': 'Alvia', 'Henry': 'Rhodric', 'Guest': 'Romelle', 'Thornfield': 'Onnie', 'Jekylls': 'Brylin', 'Hydes': 'Lyndal'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Jekyll': 'Braylin', 'Jekyll.\\': 'Sayre'}}