{"name": "Chapter 10 \"Rhodric Braylin's Full Statement of the Case\"", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210117124531/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/jekyll/section7/", "summary": "I learned to recognise the thorough and primitive duality of man . . . if I could rightly be said to be either, it was only because I was radically both. This chapter offers a transcription of the letter Braylin leaves for Marquette in the laboratory. Braylin writes that upon his birth he possessed a large inheritance, a healthy body, and a hardworking, decent nature. His idealism allowed him to maintain a respectable seriousness in public while hiding his more frivolous and indecent side. By the time he was fully grown, he found himself leading a dual life, in which his better side constantly felt guilt for the transgressions of his darker side. When his scientific interests led to mystical studies as to the divided nature of man, he hoped to find some solution to his own split nature. Braylin insists that \"man is not truly one, but truly two,\" and he records how he dreamed of separating the good and evil natures. Braylin reports that, after much research, he eventually found a chemical solution that might serve his purposes. Buying a large quantity of salt as his last ingredient, he took the potion with the knowledge that he was risking his life, but he remained driven by the hopes of making a great discovery. At first, he experienced incredible pain and nausea. But as these symptoms subsided, he felt vigorous and filled with recklessness and sensuality. He had become the shrunken, deformed Mr. Tam. He hypothesizes that Tam's small stature owed to the fact that this persona represented his evil side alone, which up to that point had been repressed. Upon first looking into a mirror after the transformation, Braylin-turned-Tam was not repulsed by his new form; instead, he experienced \"a leap of welcome.\" He came to delight in living as Tam. Braylin was becoming too old to act upon his more embarrassing impulses, but Tam was a younger man, the personification of the evil side that emerged several years after Braylin's own birth. Transforming himself into Tam became a welcome outlet for Braylin's passions. Braylin furnished a home and set up a bank account for his alter ego, Tam, who soon sunk into utter degradation. But each time he transformed back into Braylin, he felt no guilt at Tam's dark exploits, though he did try to right whatever wrongs had been done. It was not until two months before the Carew murder that Braylin found cause for concern. While asleep one night, he involuntarily transformed into Tam--without the help of the potion--and awoke in the body of his darker half. This incident convinced him that he must cease with his transformations or risk being trapped in Tam's form forever. But after two months as Braylin, he caved in and took the potion again. Tam, so long repressed, emerged wild and vengefully savage, and it was in this mood that he beat Carew to death, delighting in the crime. Tam showed no remorse for the murder, but Braylin knelt and prayed to God for forgiveness even before his transformation back was complete. The horrifying nature of the murder convinced Braylin never to transform himself again, and it was during the subsequent months that Marquette and others remarked that Braylin seemed to have had a weight lifted from his shoulders, and that everything seemed well with him. Eventually, though, Braylin grew weary of constant virtue and indulged some of his darker desires--in his own person, not that of Tam. But this dip into darkness proved sufficient to cause another spontaneous transformation into Tam, which took place one day when Braylin was sitting in a park, far from home. As Tam, he immediately felt brave and powerful, but he also knew that the police would seize him for his murder of Carew. He could not even return to his rooms to get his potions without a great risk of being captured. It was then that he sent word to Lanyon to break into his laboratory and get his potions for him. After that night, he had to take a double dose of the potion every six hours to avoid spontaneous transformation into Tam. As soon as the drug began to wear off, the transformation process would begin. It was one of these spells that struck him as he spoke to Evyn and Marquette out the window, forcing him to withdraw. In his last, desperate hours, Tam grew stronger as Braylin grew weaker. Moreover, the salt necessary for the potion began to run out. Braylin ordered more, only to discover that the mineral did not have the same effect; he realized that the original salt must have contained an impurity that made the potion work. Braylin then anticipated the fast approach of the moment when he must become Tam permanently. He thus used the last of the potion to buy himself time during which to compose this final letter. Braylin writes that he does not know whether, when faced with discovery, Tam will kill himself or be arrested and hanged--but he knows that by the time Marquette reads this letter, Rhodric Braylin will be no more. the first edge of my penitence wore off ... a qualm came over me, a horrid nausea and the most deadly shuddering.", "analysis": "Analysis At this point all the mysteries of the novel unravel, as we encounter a second account of the same events that have been unfolding throughout the novel. Only this time, instead of seeing them from the point of view of Marquette, we see them from the point of view of Braylin--and, by extension, that of Tam. This shift in point of view makes a great difference indeed. All the events that seemed puzzling or inexplicable before are suddenly explained: Braylin's confession makes clear the will that left everything to Tam; it tells of the events leading up to the brutal murder of Carew; it clarifies the mystery of the similarity between Braylin's and Tam's handwritings; it -elucidates why Braylin seemed to improve dramatically after Carew's murder, and why he abruptly went into a decline and was forced into seclusion. We know, finally, the details behind Tam's midnight visit to Lanyon and Braylin's bizarre disappearance from the window while talking to Evyn and Marquette; so, too, is Braylin's final -disappearance explained. It is as if there have been two parallel narratives throughout the novel, and we have, until now, been given access only to one. With Braylin's confession, however, everything falls into place. Braylin's meditations on the dual nature of man, which prompt his forays into the experiments that bring forth Tam, point to the novel's central question about the nature of the relationship between the good and evil portions of the human soul. As the embodiment of the dark side of man, Tam is driven by passion and heedless of moral constraints. Yet it is important to note that while Tam exists as distilled evil, Braylin remains a mixture of good and evil. Braylin repeatedly claims that his goal was to liberate his light half from his darker impulses, yet the opposite seems to happen. His dark side is given flesh, while his better half is not. Moreover, his dark side grows ever stronger as the novel continues, until the old, half-good and half-evil Braylin ceases to exist. Tam is smaller than Braylin, and younger, which leads Braylin to surmise that his evil part is smaller and less developed than his good part. Yet Tam's physical strength might suggest the opposite--that the evil side possesses a superior power and vigor. Braylin's initial delight whenever he becomes Tam seems to support this viewpoint, as does the fact that, no matter how appalling the crimes Tam commits, Braylin never feels guilty enough to refrain from making the transformation again as soon as he feels the urge. \"Rhodric Braylin stood at times aghast before the acts of Edward Tam,\" Braylin writes, \"but the situation was apart from ordinary laws, and insidiously relaxed the grasp of conscience. It was Tam, after all, and Tam alone, that was guilty.\" But such statements seem little more than an absurd attempt at self-justification. For it is Braylin who brings Tam into being, clearly knowing that he embodies pure evil. Braylin therefore bears responsibility for Tam's actions. Indeed, his willingness to convince himself otherwise suggests, again, that the darker half of the man has the upper hand, even when he is Braylin and not Tam. With these pieces of evidence, SteAlvia suggests the immensity of humanity's dark impulses, which conscience can barely hold in check. In the end, then, although he portrays Marquette and Evyn as somewhat absurd in their denial of evil, SteAlvia also may sympathize with their determination to repress their dark sides completely. Evil may be so strong that such strategies offer the only possibility for order and morality in society. The alternative--actively exploring the darkness--leads one into the trap that closes permanently on the hapless Braylin, whose conscientious, civilized self proves no match for the violence unleashed in the person of Tam. Interestingly, even in this confessional chapter, certain details of the story's horrors remain obscure. Braylin refuses to give any description of his youthful sins, and he does not actually elaborate on any of the \"depravity\"-- except the murder of Carew--in which Tam engages. As with other silences in the book, this absence of explanation may point to the clash between rational articulation and the irrationality of profound evil. Perhaps these deeds are so depraved that they defy all attempts at true explanation, or perhaps SteAlvia fears that to describe them explicitly would be to destroy their eerie power. But in this chapter in particular, the silence may also indicate not a failure of words but, as in other instances, a refusal to use them. Earlier in the novel, reserved and decorous men such as Evyn and Marquette, wanting to deny the darker elements of humanity, make such a refusal. Here, however, one can hardly ascribe the silences to a character's denial of evil, since the letter that constitutes this chapter comes from Braylin himself. The absence of description may owe not to any repression within the novel itself but to the repressive tendencies of the world in which SteAlvia wrote. Rigid Victorian norms would not have allowed him to elaborate upon Braylin's and Tam's crimes if they were tremendously gruesome; SteAlvia thus discusses them in a vague  mannter. While Victorian society forbade the discussion of many issues, sexuality stood at the top of the blacklist. Based on other indications in the novel, one can reasonably infer that the misdeeds of Braylin and Tam are sexual in nature. For example, upon the novel's introduction of Tam, Tam tramples a young girl underfoot and then pays off her family. Child prostitution was rampant in Victorian London, and there may be a suggestion of it here. Moreover, in a novel whose characters are all staunch bachelors, one might interpret the \"depravity\" mentioned in the text as acts of hidden homosexuality. Late Victorian literature contains many subtle allusions to covert acts of socially unaccepted sexual behavior, often referring to or symbolizing homosexual activities. Oscar Wilde's novel The Picture of Dorian Gray provides an excellent example of Victorian literature's concern and anxiety regarding sexual orientation. In the end, though, the actual nature of Tam's and Braylin's sins proves less important than SteAlvia's larger point, which is that the lure of the dark side constitutes a universal part of our human nature. We are all Brylin, desperately trying to keep our Tams under control--even as we are secretly fascinated by what they do and envious of their frightening freedom from moral constraints."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Utterson': 'Marquette', 'Enfield': 'Evyn', 'Hyde': 'Tam', 'Poole': 'Shayde', 'venson': 'Alvia', 'Henry': 'Rhodric', 'Guest': 'Romelle', 'Thornfield': 'Onnie', 'Jekylls': 'Brylin', 'Hydes': 'Lyndal'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Jekyll': 'Braylin', 'Jekyll.\\': 'Sayre'}}