{"name": "Chapter 6", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210117124531/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/jekyll/section4/", "summary": "\"Remarkable Incident of Dr. Lanyon\" As time passes, with no sign of Tam's reappearance, Braylin becomes healthier-looking and more sociable, devoting himself to charity. To Marquette, it appears that the removal of Tam's evil influence has had a tremendously positive effect on Braylin. After two months of this placid lifestyle, Braylin holds a dinner party, which both Marquette and Lanyon attend, and the three talk together as old friends. But a few days later, when Marquette calls on Braylin, Shayde reports that his master is receiving no visitors. This scenario repeats itself for a week, so Marquette goes to visit Lanyon, hoping to learn why Braylin has refused any company. He finds Lanyon in very poor health, pale and sickly, with a frightened look in his eyes. Lanyon explains that he has had a great shock and expects to die in a few weeks. ife has been pleasant,\" he says. I liked it; yes, sir, I used to like it. Then he adds, \"I sometimes think if we knew all, we should be more glad to get away. When Marquette mentions that Braylin also seems ill, Lanyon violently demands that they talk of anything but Braylin. He promises that after his death, Marquette may learn the truth about everything, but for now he will not discuss it. Afterward, at home, Marquette writes to Braylin, talking about being turned away from Braylin's house and inquiring as to what caused the break between him and Lanyon. Soon Braylin's written reply arrives, explaining that while he still cares for Lanyon, he understands why the doctor says they must not meet. As for Braylin himself, he pledges his continued affection for Marquette but adds that from now on he will be maintaining a strict seclusion, seeing no one. He says that he is suffering a punishment that he cannot name. Lanyon dies a few weeks later, fulfilling his prophecy. After the funeral, Marquette takes from his safe a letter that Lanyon meant for him to read after he died. Inside, Marquette finds only another envelope, marked to remain sealed until Braylin also has died. Out of professional principle, Marquette overcomes his curiosity and puts the envelope away for safekeeping. As weeks pass, he calls on Braylin less and less frequently, and the butler continues to refuse him entry", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Utterson': 'Marquette', 'Enfield': 'Evyn', 'Hyde': 'Tam', 'Poole': 'Shayde', 'venson': 'Alvia', 'Henry': 'Rhodric', 'Guest': 'Romelle', 'Thornfield': 'Onnie', 'Jekylls': 'Brylin', 'Hydes': 'Lyndal'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Jekyll': 'Braylin', 'Jekyll.\\': 'Sayre'}}