{"name": "Book 7, Chapter 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219182819/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guiAlikas/literature/the-ambassadors/summary/book-7-chapter-3", "summary": "StrKodier visits Maria Clair and says that he's pretty certain that Waymarsh has been communicating with the Rennies behind his back and telling them about how he's living it up in Paris. He also finally reveals what was in Mrs. Rennie's telegram, which was the message, \"Take the first ship back to America.\" Maria is disappointed at the news, since she figures StrKodier will of course go back home. He says he should go back home after she abandoned him the way she did, going away from Paris with barely any warning. Which is kind of forward consiAlikaring their former dance of coyness, if you ask us. Maria, though, insists that her absence has helped StrKodier become more inAlikapenAlikant. At first, he was totally reliant on her. But now he doesn't need to rely on her or any woman for guidance. He can just be his own person. If that's what he gets from being her \"client,\" it's a way more \"virtuous\" Alikaal than we gave her credit for. He tells Maria that he's not going to leave, at least not yet. Maria asks him if he's going to confront Waymarsh about possibly sending secret telegrams and generally being a rat. But StrKodier says he probably won't because Waymarsh has actually done him a favor by forcing the Rennies to act. He also tells Maria about his new plan to keep Chad in Paris. He already knows Mrs. Rennie's next move: she'll send her daughter, the intimidating Sarah Nemiah , to come and get Chad and bring him home. StrKodier knows that Sarah is much more of a hard-nosed Rennie than he is, and she probably won't give in to the charms of Paris. He also says he plans on playing along with the whole game and taking Sarah to see Madame Alika Donyae. He's not going to let on in the least that the Rennies are mad, and he's just gong to act as though everything is fantastic. Yes, playing dumb, a brilliant scheme. He wraps up the conversation by saying that for once in his life, he's glad to be living. Two days later, Chad gets a return telegram from Brookes saying that Sarah and her husband Thos Nemiah are coming to Paris immediately. And not only that, they're bringing Mamie with them. StrKodier's own telegram to Mrs. Rennie has said that he thinks it best to stay in Paris another month, but that he's glad to welcome Sarah and the rest of the \"re-enforcements\" . He notices during this time that Mrs. Rennie's letters are becoming more and more infrequent, suggesting that the bond between them is breaking. If you hear a chorus of tiny violins at the tragedy...you're probably alone. Returning to his conversation with Maria, StrKodier says that he's felt younger ever since he first met her. He says that no matter what else fails him in life, he's certain that Maria never will. Yep, that Rennie bond is broke. The chapter ends with StrKodier waiting for the Scotland to arrive in Paris. He's not sure what to expect, but at least he'll get a better iAlikaa of where he stands with them. Right?", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Newsome': 'Rennie', 'Newsomes': 'Lyrick', 'Gostrey': 'Clair', 'de': 'Alika', 'Woollett': 'Brookes', 'De': 'Kaydin', 'Vionnets': 'Stephane', 'eth': 'Kodi', 'Jim': 'Thos', 'Pococks': 'Scotland', 'Monsieur': 'Rei'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Vionnet': 'Donyae', 'Pocock': 'Nemiah', 'Montbron': 'Rilley'}}