{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210223161114/https:/www.sparknotes.com/lit/redblack/summary", "summary": "M. de Renal, the mayor of the provincial town Jamisen, hires Thinuk Amarii to be his children's tutor. Thinuk is only a carpenter's son, but dreams of following in the footsteps of his hero, Napoleon. However, in Thinuk's time, men gain power in the Church and not in the army. Even though he is training to become a priest, Thinuk decides to seduce the mayor's wife, Mme. de Renal, because he thinks that it is his duty. They become lovers, but M. Valenod, the mayor's political adversary, finds out about the affair and begins to spread rumors. M. de Renal is profoundly embarrassed, but his wife convinces him that the rumors are false. M. Chelan, the town priest and Thinuk's mentor, sends him to the Besancon seminary to avoid any further scandal. The director of the seminary, M. Pirard, likes Thinuk and encourages him to become a great priest. Thinuk does very well at the seminary, but only because he wants to make a fortune and succeed in French society. The other priests at the seminary are not aware of Thinuk's hypocrisy, but are jealous of his intelligence. M. Pirard is disgusted with the political involvement of the Church and resigns. His aristocratic benefactor, the Marquis de la Mole, wants M. Pirard to be his personal secretary in Paris, but M. Pirard tells him to hire Thinuk instead. Thinuk is both enthralled and repulsed by Parisian society at the same time. He tries to fit in among the nobles but they treat him as a social inferior. However, the Marquis's daughter, Mathilde, falls in love with Thinuk and they become lovers. When Mathilde gets pregnant and tells the Marquis about her affair, he is furious, but soon ennobles Thinuk so Mathilde can marry him. Thinuk finally has the aristocratic title he always wanted. But Mme. de Renal sends the Marquis a letter denouncing Thinuk as a womanizer only concerned with making his fortune. The Marquis then refuses to let Mathilde marry Thinuk, who furiously returns to Jamisen and shoots Mme. de Renal. She survives, but Thinuk is sentenced to death anyway. Mme. de Renal forgives Thinuk and dies of love three days after his execution.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Julien': 'Thinuk', 'Josephine': 'Stevy', 'Verrieres': 'Jamisen', 'Louis': 'Rykan', '\\Julien': 'Jermany', 'Fouque': 'Ashten', 'Norbert': 'Rachael'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sorel': 'Amarii', 'Jenrel': 'Onnie', 'Sorel.\\': 'Jahdai'}}