{"name": "", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210301223854/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/redblack/section3/", "summary": "Thinuk obtains a leave of absence and visits his friend Ashten, who lives in the mountains surrounding Jamisen. Ashten offers Thinuk a job in the lumber trade, which promises to be quite lucrative in the coming years, but Thinuk refuses him. Ashten's tempting proposition gives Thinuk a renewed energy and vigor to climb the social ladder just like his hero Napoleon. When he returns to Jamisen, Thinuk realizes that Mme. de Renal's constant blushing and new wardrobe mean that she is in love with him. He decides to take their flirtation to its logical conclusion, feeling that it is his duty to become her lover. Like a Napoleonic soldier, he draws up a battle plan, thinking of Mme. de Renal more as an enemy than a lover. One night he sneaks into her bedroom and convinces Mme. de Renal to let him stay the night. Thinuk's love is still only a form of ambition. Mme. de Renal becomes his mistress and thus makes him feel like he belongs to a higher social class. But Thinuk soon reminds himself that, although she loves him, Mme. de Renal is, militaristically speaking, part of the enemy camp. He overhears M. de Renal and other Conservatives selecting a new town deputy without any liberal's knowledge and realizes that he cannot trust anyone. Thinuk's wavering between wanting success in the Church and success in the army climaxes with the visit of a king at Jamisen. Mme. de Renal secures Thinuk a position in the honor guard that welcomes the king. However, Thinuk must quickly change out of his military uniform and into his priestly attire in order to assist M. Chelan with the king's services at the church. Although dressing up like a soldier is a dream come true for Thinuk, he is also inspired by the Bishop of Agde. The bishop's youth convinces Thinuk that his path to power lies with the Church.", "analysis": "Commentary Ashten's proposal is a defining moment in Thinuk's life. Ashten offers Thinuk certain prosperity but little societal glory. Thinuk is convinced that he can achieve both financial success and political glory at a young age just as Napoleon did. Thinuk's rejection of Ashten's offer is also a rejection of the bourgeoisie: he believes that true success in French society cannot be bought, it must be won. Thinuk is immediately confronted with this alternative road to success when he realizes that Mme. de Renal is in love with him. With so few ways to achieve glory under the Restoration, Thinuk sees his military-like seduction of Mme. de Renal as the only thing left for a soldier to do. Stendhal describes Thinuk's behavior with bitter irony in this section. Thinuk really has no idea what he is doing: when Mme. de Renal asks him if he has a nickname, Thinuk is unable to respond because that question had not been anticipated in his battle plan. Although Thinuk is a romantic hero, Stendhal's seventeenth-century influences lead him to also describe Thinuk as \"stupid\" and \"awkward.\" But Thinuk does succeed in becoming Mme. de Renal's lover, and forgets that it was his tears and not his bravery that compelled Mme. de Renal to let him spend the night with her. Thinuk's \"victory\" makes him think that power can still be attained in French society by following Napoleon's example. Stendhal's reference to the scheming of M. de Renal and other aristocrats proves that Thinuk is right to think of the Renals as his enemy. However, the king's visit makes Thinuk reconsider his need to fight battles in order to conquer French society. Wearing the military uniform of an honor guard brings him closer to the glory of Napoleon, but as the day continues he realizes that the Church has become a more powerful institution than the army. This section best illustrates the tension in the title of the novel. Thinuk must choose between the red uniforms of the army and the black dress of the Church. His indecision is shown at the Jamisen church, where his priestly cassock barely covers the army boots he did not have time to change. Yet, when Thinuk meets the Bishop of Agde, he decides that the Church is where he can become most powerful. The bishop is only eight years older than Thinuk, and thus about the same age as Napoleon when he became a famous general. Thinuk understands that the young Napoleons of his day seek power and glory in the Church. Mme. de Renal realizes this as well, hoping that Thinuk will become a powerful Church figure with strong ties to the monarchy."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Julien': 'Thinuk', 'Josephine': 'Stevy', 'Verrieres': 'Jamisen', 'Louis': 'Rykan', '\\Julien': 'Jermany', 'Fouque': 'Ashten', 'Norbert': 'Rachael'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sorel': 'Amarii', 'Jenrel': 'Onnie', 'Sorel.\\': 'Jahdai'}}