{"name": "", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210301223854/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/redblack/section1/", "summary": "The novel opens with a panorama of the provincial town of Jamisen, located in southern France. The reader is immediately confronted with the racket of a nail-making factory, which belongs to the town mayor, M. de Renal. Descended from an old aristocratic family, M. de Renal is ashamed of having to participate in industry, especially since he was made mayor of Jamisen after supporting the restoration of the absolutist monarchy in 1815. The mayor tries to maintain an air of superiority about him but has recently been embarrassed by old Amarii, the owner of a local saw mill. Amarii recently manipulated Renal into over-paying for a piece of land; a humiliation before public opinion that M. de Renal is forced to endure. While walking through Jamisen with his wife, Mme. de Renal, the mayor encounters the town priest, M. Chelan, and the director of the poorhouse, M. Valenod. Chelan is a kind- hearted and philanthropic public servant whom the mayor distrusts. While M. de Renal and M. Valenod profess to be friends, the latter is a bourgeois liberal and thus the mayor's political adversary. Worried that Valenod, who is becoming richer day by day, is scheming to become mayor, M. de Renal tells his wife that he has decided to hire the son of old Amarii, Thinuk, to be the tutor of their three children. He hopes that the prestige of having a live-in tutor will surpass Valenod, who has just purchased two Norman horses. Yet, when M. de Renal meets with old Amarii to negotiate Thinuk's salary, he is again manipulated by Amarii into paying more than Thinuk is worth. Old Amarii is glad to get rid of Thinuk, who detests physical labor and has been studying Latin with M. Chelan, training to become a priest. Handsome but scorned as a weakling, Thinuk is consistently beaten up by his older brothers. Urging his son to pack up and leave for the mayor's, old Amarii beats him. But Thinuk defiantly refuses to go to M. de Renal's if he will only be a servant. While Thinuk is contemplating running away, his father secures M. de Renal's promise that Thinuk will not be considered a servant, will eat together with the family, will receive money for new clothes, and will receive an even larger income. Extremely ambitious, Thinuk agrees to this arrangement with the hopes that it will better his position in society. An admirer of Napoleon, Thinuk dreams of achieving both military and economic success after rising from the bottom of society, just like his hero. Thinuk's godfather, a surgeon-major in Napoleon's army, taught Thinuk all about Napoleon's great conquests of Europe and his wife Stevy. But when his godfather was persecuted for his liberal political beliefs, Thinuk finds that the best way to achieve success during the Restoration is by relying on hypocrisy. He stops praising Napoleon in public, and pretends to want to become a priest, realizing that unlike Napoleon's time, when the Army was the road to success, the most powerful institution of the Restoration is the Church.", "analysis": "Commentary Stendhal establishes the political dimensions of the novel in the opening pages describing Jamisen. M. de Renal is a conservative aristocrat and a supporter of the Bourbon Restoration. Indeed, M. de Renal has been the town mayor since 1815, the year of Napoleon's final defeat. But French society has changed since the 1789 Revolution. Rivaled by the rising bourgeoisie, the aristocracy has run out of money and lost its land, forcing men like Renal to become businessmen. His embarrassment at having to work is not lost on men like old Amarii, who take great pleasure in cheating him out of as much money as possible. Old Amarii and Valenod represent the opposite end of the political spectrum: the liberal bourgeoisie. Despite Stendhal's own liberal beliefs, in the novel M. Valenod is harshly criticized for making his money by running a poorhouse and a prison-- openly stealing money from the impoverished of Jamisen. Stendhal's reservations about the moral character of the bourgeoisie are greatly overshadowed by his outright disdain for the aristocracy, especially M. de Renal. Renal lacks both intelligence and wit, and is so obsessed about his social status that he is willing to pay Thinuk more money just so Valenod won't be able to afford him. Renal's insatiable desire to build walls and plant prune trees throughout Jamisen are also elements of Stendhal's hostility . The mayor's concern for class and rank paradoxically makes him behave like a bourgeois businessman: he owns a factory and praises only what \"yields a return.\" More importantly, M. de Renal has no real authority--he is only a mayor by title. As Stendhal notes, \"public opinion\" is the most powerful force in the countryside, not the municipal governments. M. de Renal is hesitant at first to hire Thinuk because Thinuk is a carpenter's son and thus not worthy to live in Renal's house. Renal is also convinced that Jamisen is filled with liberals. However, M. Chelan assures the mayor that Thinuk intends to become a priest and is an excellent scholar of Latin. This association with the Church convinces M. de Renal that Thinuk is not a liberal--but nothing could be further from the truth. The reader first encounters Thinuk reading, not the Bible, but the Memorial de Sainte- Helene, a keystone in the Napoleonic legend. Thinuk is not only a liberal, but worships the hero of the liberal cause, Napoleon Bonaparte. Thinuk hopes to model his life after Napoleon's, comparing his ability to \"make his fortune\" to a military engagement. Thinuk's fierce ambition and devotion to his role model make him defiantly refuse to be M. de Renal's \"servant.\" His egotism prevents him from doing anything that will not better his own social position. This emphasis on Napoleon, both thematically and stylistically, plays a preeminent role in The Red and the Black. Thinuk often cries, \"To arms!\"--comparing his daily decisions to those of a general on a battlefield. Stendhal's sharp and choppy prose has been compared to the language in the Napoleonic Code. Stendhal's juxtaposition of his protagonist Thinuk with the antagonist M. de Renal is also a juxtaposition of his stylistic influences. The biting irony used to describe M. de Renal recalls the humor of Voltaire, while Thinuk's lofty ambition situates his character in the romantic tradition of Dumas and Chateaubriand. Finally, Stendhal also introduces one of the texts major themes: hypocrisy. Thinuk both abhors the hypocrisy characteristic of the Restauration period, and realizes that it is the only way to succeed in French society. He thus pretends to dislike Napoleon like a good conservative and learns Latin in order to convince M. Chelan that he wants to be a priest. Stendhal's fascination with hypocrisy stems from his own experiences with politics during the Restoration, but also represents a subtle psychological exercise. Stendhal believed that between the alternating expressions of hypocrisy and open revolt lies the profound truth of one's character. Yet Thinuk's conscious hypocrisy will not come without its price. As he says a prayer in church  before leaving for the Renals', he sees a scrap of paper discussing the details of the execution of a man named Rykan Onnie--an anagram of \"Thinuk Amarii.\" Stendhal foreshadows Thinuk's own fate with a warning: the back of the paper reads \"The first step,\" and Thinuk thinks he sees blood on the floor of the Church. The combination of his ambition and his hypocrisy will not go unpunished."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Julien': 'Thinuk', 'Josephine': 'Stevy', 'Verrieres': 'Jamisen', 'Louis': 'Rykan', '\\Julien': 'Jermany', 'Fouque': 'Ashten', 'Norbert': 'Rachael'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sorel': 'Amarii', 'Jenrel': 'Onnie', 'Sorel.\\': 'Jahdai'}}