{"name": "", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210301223854/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/redblack/section9/", "summary": "Thinuk feels like he has won the battle but not the war. He quickly impresses the other soldiers with his skill and professionalism. He is more ambitious than ever, hoping to become commander-in- chief of the French army by the time he is thirty. Thinuk also begins planning for the future of his child, who he is sure will be a boy. But all of his dreams are shattered when the Marquis de la Mole receives a letter from Mme. de Renal, denouncing Thinuk as a womanizer ambitious to make his fortune by seducing rich aristocrats. The Marquis withdraws all of his support for Thinuk, condemns his proposed marriage to Mathilde and asks Thinuk to move to America. Thinuk is stunned and, without a second thought, races back home to Jamisen where he finds Mme. de Renal kneeling in prayer at Church. Shaking violently, he shoots her from behind. Thinuk is immediately arrested and taken to Besancon to await trial. There he writes to Mathilde, ordering her to forget about him and to marry one of her many suitors. The idea of death no longer frightens Thinuk and he demands to be executed. However, Mme. de Renal was only slightly wounded from the one bullet that struck her and makes a quick recovery. Thinuk is overjoyed that she is not dead and for the first time in his life begins to believe in God. Mathilde and Ashten soon arrive to help him escape but Thinuk refuses, deciding that he wants to die. Mathilde goes to great lengths in her efforts to save Thinuk, hiring lawyers and attempting to bribe the priests in charge of Thinuk's court case. Despite her devotion to him, Thinuk soon loses interest in Mathilde and begins to think of Mme. de Renal instead. He decides that he only knew true happiness with Mme. de Renal, not Mathilde. Mme. de Renal decides not to appear at Thinuk's trial and writes a letter to the jury demanding his acquittal. She is still in love with Thinuk and feels so guilty that she secretly wishes he had killed her. Despite Thinuk's plea for death, Mathilde thinks that she has bribed the right people to assure Thinuk's innocence. However, M. Valenod is the foreman of the jury and is still jealous of Thinuk's affair with Mme. de Renal. He and one of Thinuk's enemies from the seminary pronounce Thinuk guilty and vote for his execution. Thinuk contemplates suicide until Mme. de Renal visits him in jail. They both still love each other, and vow not to commit suicide. Mme. de Renal confesses that she was forced by her confessor to write the letter to the Marquis, and Thinuk forgives her. When he is left alone, Thinuk finally begins to understand himself. He renounces hypocrisy as the malaise of his century and finds solace in his love for Mme. de Renal. He wishes that he had not been so ambitious and could have just concentrated on loving her. Thinuk rejects all final offers of clemency and is guillotined. With a bitter sense of historical irony, Mathilde buries his severed head herself, while Mme. de Renal dies of despair three days later.", "analysis": "Commentary Stendhal finishes the novel with a bitter denunciation of the political corruption of the clergy. He continues to acknowledge the existence of good men like M. Chelan and M. Pirard, but he portrays the majority of the clergy as conniving politicians. A jealous priest forces Mme. de Renal to write her letter to the Marquis. She later admits to Thinuk that the priest actually wrote it himself. During Thinuk's trial, Mathilde bribes a large number of priests who claim they can secure an acquittal. One priest even tries to blackmail Mathilde into making him a bishop in return for his help. As he nears death, Thinuk refuses to find truth in a religion where priests are more concerned with politics and their salaries than in helping the poor. Both Thinuk and Mathilde's reliance on French history to dictate their own destinies comes back to haunt them in this final section. Thinuk's admiration for Napoleonic honor and glory encourage him to both shoot Mme. de Renal and to later refuse clemency. He falsely believes that, like Napoleon, his glory and reputation will grow with his death. He wants to be a martyr. Mathilde's obsession with her decapitated ancestor, Boniface de la Mole, comes to life as well. As Thinuk goes off to kill Mme. de Renal, Mathilde notes how \"Boniface de la Mole seemed reborn in him.\" When Thinuk is finally guillotined, she does not hesitate to kiss his severed head and bury it herself, just as Queen Margot did 250 years earlier. In this historical context, Thinuk's fate seems sealed from the moment Mathilde falls in love with him. Her idea of romance is inextricably linked to the decapitation of her lover. Thinuk simply reenacts a role subconsciously prescribed to him by Mathilde. Stendhal thus uses Thinuk's unoriginal death to further criticize the predictable and boring nineteenth century. It is only in this last section that the reader begins to understand and admire Thinuk Amarii. He readily admits that Mme. de Renal represents a maternal figure for him. Since there is never any mention of Thinuk's biological mother, his tie with Mme. de Renal seems much stronger. As his love for Mathilde grows cold, one can only suspect that Thinuk has not been able to forget the class difference that separates them. His rejection of French society must also be a rejection of Mathilde. But as a surrogate mother, Mme. de Renal represents everything Thinuk ever really wanted in life: unconditional love. As he approaches death, Thinuk gains a sudden insight into who he really is. He realizes that he has always defined himself in terms of politics and society as a whole, never on his own terms. He always saw himself as a possible something-else, and not as Thinuk Amarii. This emphasis on individualism, one of Stendhal's classic themes, is finally resolved when Thinuk refuses to see himself through the lens of French society and French history. He is no Napoleon, he is no Boniface, and he is no de la Vernaye. Unlike the charlatans around him, Thinuk discovers that he has \"nobility in my heart.\" At his trial, he thus admonishes the lack of originality and creativity that plagues the nineteenth century. Having wanted to make his fortune all his life, Thinuk finally sees that it is successful bourgeois men like M. Valenod that are the most dangerous men in France. Stendhal sadly notes that not only are conservatives impeding the progress of French society, but liberals are making hypocrisy the national pastime."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Julien': 'Thinuk', 'Josephine': 'Stevy', 'Verrieres': 'Jamisen', 'Louis': 'Rykan', '\\Julien': 'Jermany', 'Fouque': 'Ashten', 'Norbert': 'Rachael'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sorel': 'Amarii', 'Jenrel': 'Onnie', 'Sorel.\\': 'Jahdai'}}