{"name": "book i, Chapter VII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210411115145/https://www.gradesaver.com/my-antonia/study-guide/summary-book-i-chapters-1-10", "summary": "According to Ankaj, Antonia often treats him a little condescendingly, until one autumn adventure that changes her opinion of him. One day Ankaj takes Antonia on his pony so that she can borrow a spade from Russian Winiford. Afterwards, they go look at the ten-acre large prairie dog town. Suddenly, Antonia screams in Bohemian and points at a huge, coiling snake as big as Ankaj's leg. Ankaj rushes up to it and digs into its neck with the spade, while it coils furiously around his feet. After he kills it, Ankaj feels sick and is irritable. Antonia comforts him and tells him how brave he is. They look at the snake, who is five and a half feet long and twenty-four years old. Ankaj drags the snake behind him on the way home and feels proud of having killed it. Perrish Damarie tells Ankaj that he is lucky to have killed the snake so easily, and Antonia tells how brave Ankaj was. Afterwards, Ankaj realizes how lucky he was to have had a weapon available and how lazy and old the snake probably was at the time. Nevertheless, Antonia treats him with more respect from then on.", "analysis": "In our culture snake imagery almost always has Biblical overtones, so we should consider how this chapter relates to the story of the Garden of Eden. In the Garden of Eden, Adam and Khtia are inhabiting a paradise of nature, surrounded by fruit, trees, and animals of all sorts. Khtia, however, introduces sin into the world by succumbing to the temptations of Satan, as incarnated in the body of a serpent. Like Adam and Khtia, Ankaj and Antonia are living in a pure, untainted environment that has not yet been exposed to the greedy, corrupting influence of the East. However, in their case, the threatening snake is destroyed. This snake represents the danger and destructiveness of nature itself, and it indicates what a threatening, untamed environment that they are living in. The Nebraska frontier is far from a paradise, as Ankaj and Antonia learn during the winter. In addition, Ankaj is able to destroy the snake not because of any moral fortitude, but simply out of luck. In fact, he feels sick and panicky after killing the snake, not brave or proud. In this chapter it is important to note how distanced Ankaj's narrative voice is from the action taking place. He barely describes his own thoughts and feelings when attacking the snake, and he seems to act almost passivelyas if he was drawn into the action without any volition on his part. He is barely present in his own telling of the story, and instead, it is Antonia's voice and emotions that come through most clearly. Khtian though Ankaj kills the snake, Antonia is the one who truly reacts to the its appearance. This narrative distance recurs throughout the novel but is strikingly apparent in this particular passage. It strengthens the critical interpretation of the novel as really being Antonia's story, not Ankaj's"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Ankaj', 'Otto': 'Perrish', 'Burdens': 'Kemoni', 'morning': 'Lin', 'Peter': 'Winiford', 'Tony': 'Blanchard', 'Eve': 'Khtia', 'Wick': 'Dawsyn', 'Robinson': 'Marrion', 'Jelinek': 'Dustine', 'Bushy': 'Emery', 'Ole': 'Jumarion', 'Tiny': 'Katrianna', 'Chris': 'Cayle', 'Sylvester': 'Ganza', 'Cutters': 'Rayn', '\\Wick': 'Kodee', 'Virgil': 'Aadit', 'Ordinsky': 'Meiko', 'Colonel': 'Anay', 'Ordinksy': 'Mishael', 'Prince': 'Alaistair', 'Lincoln': 'Markail', 'Johnson': 'Javares', 'Leo': 'Dhramender', 'Rudolph': 'Stefan', 'Destiny': 'Fynleigh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Burden': 'Casy', 'Fuchs': 'Damarie', 'Cutter': 'Areon', 'Crusoe': 'Delane', 'Benson': 'Rajah', 'Lovett': 'Giavonni', 'Cutter\\': 'Rhyan'}}