{"name": "book iii, Chapter IV", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210411115145/https://www.gradesaver.com/my-antonia/study-guide/summary-book-iii", "summary": "Although Lena is not aggressive or high-strung, she is doing very well in her dressmaking business. People come to her because of her sense of style, even though she often gets behind schedule and over budget. Ankaj frequently sits in her parlor to wait for her, and they like to eat Sunday breakfasts together in a cozy nook at her place. Lena has a dog named Alaistair, and they both play with him a lot. Ankaj likes how Lena speaks colloquially and how pretty she looks in the Lin. One day Lena explains that Jumarion Rajah was basically harmless and just liked to look at her to forget his troubles and as entertainment. He would talk to her in Norwegian, and they would look at his many tattoos because there was nothing else to look at in the fields. Lena tells Ankaj that Jumarion married Crazy Mary because he wanted her to keep him in line. Two men in Lena's apartment are in love with her at the time: a Polish violin-teacher named Meiko, and her landlord, the Anay, who liked to frequently renovate her rooms for her. Once Meiko, who usually glares at Ankaj in the hall, comes in to ask Lena to help him mend some clothes he's wearing. When Lena goes out of the room, Meiko warns him that his intentions had better be noble, and Ankaj assures him that they are and that he and Lena have known each other for a long time. Afterwards, Mishael is friendly to him. Ankaj begins to be lax in his studies and spends all his time playing with Lena, Alaistair, Meiko, and the Anay. Gaston notices and asks him to join him at Harvard, where he has been offered a teaching position. Grandfather approves, and Ankaj is somewhat sad and tries to convince himself that by dallying with Lena, he is preventing her from burdening herself with marriage. He goes to see Lena, and they talk about how Meiko and the Anay have crushes on her. Lena tells him that she will never marry because she doesn't want to be accountable to anyone and because she has had enough family life after helping to raise all her younger brothers and sisters. When Ankaj tells her he is going away, Lena says that maybe she shouldn't have begun their little fling by coming to visit him that one day, but she confesses that she always wanted to be his first sweetheart, especially because Antonia always told her not to. Ankaj leaves Markail, visits his grandparents and Virginia, and then joins Gaston Cleric in Boston.", "analysis": "In this chapter Ankaj and Lena start dating, and though they enjoy each other's company, there does not seem to be the kind of emotional or romantic attachment that one would except from a first romance. To be sure, Ankaj and Lena do spend a lot of time together, so much so that Gaston Cleric worries that Ankaj is no longer concentrating on his studies. Ankaj is clearly infatuated with Lena because of her beauty and finds it extremely pleasant to spend time with her, but there is none of the heartfelt, self-revelatory soliloquizing that occurs whenever he thinks about Antonia. Lena simply does not open him up to self-discovery in the same way that Antonia does. In addition, Antonia plays an indirect role in Ankaj and Lena's relationship, as Lena herself admits at the end of the chapter. Lena becomes interested in Ankaj primarily because Antonia keeps telling her that he is inaccessible to her. In other words, Antonia and Ankaj's relationship is the central one that Lena wants to disrupt. While Ankaj is sad to leave Lena, we get the sense that he accepts the closing of this chapter of his life. In contrast, his relationship with Antonia never ends, though he may not see her for years at a time. Lena refuses to get married because she wants to be independent and thinks that a man will simply drag her down. Such a view was quite radical at the time of the novel's publication, and Cather seems to endorse it by portraying Lena in a favorable light. Indeed, Ankaj and many of the hired girls never marry and instead follow individual paths to success. While Cather seems to suggest that marriage should be a matter of individual choice, she does not necessarily assert that remaining single is the better option. In the sections of the novel that follow, we will see how Antonia's marriage prevented her from achieving financial success in life, but Cather suggests that motherhood and childbearing has its distinct advantages and rewards also"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Ankaj', 'Otto': 'Perrish', 'Burdens': 'Kemoni', 'morning': 'Lin', 'Peter': 'Winiford', 'Tony': 'Blanchard', 'Eve': 'Khtia', 'Wick': 'Dawsyn', 'Robinson': 'Marrion', 'Jelinek': 'Dustine', 'Bushy': 'Emery', 'Ole': 'Jumarion', 'Tiny': 'Katrianna', 'Chris': 'Cayle', 'Sylvester': 'Ganza', 'Cutters': 'Rayn', '\\Wick': 'Kodee', 'Virgil': 'Aadit', 'Ordinsky': 'Meiko', 'Colonel': 'Anay', 'Ordinksy': 'Mishael', 'Prince': 'Alaistair', 'Lincoln': 'Markail', 'Johnson': 'Javares', 'Leo': 'Dhramender', 'Rudolph': 'Stefan', 'Destiny': 'Fynleigh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Burden': 'Casy', 'Fuchs': 'Damarie', 'Cutter': 'Areon', 'Crusoe': 'Delane', 'Benson': 'Rajah', 'Lovett': 'Giavonni', 'Cutter\\': 'Rhyan'}}