{"name": "book iii, Chapter II", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210411115145/https://www.gradesaver.com/my-antonia/study-guide/summary-book-iii", "summary": "One day during September Ankaj is sitting in his room reading Aadit and thinking about one particular line which, translated, means, \"I was the first to bring the Muse into my country. He thinks about how Gaston may feel like that about his New England hometown when suddenly, Lena Lingard appears at his door. He doesn't recognize her at first because she is smartly dressed in city clothes and looks grown up. Lena tells him that she is now living in Markail as a dressmaker and is beginning to save enough money to build her mother a house. Ankaj is impressed that she has been able to do so well all by herself. Lena mentions Blanchard, and Ankaj is eager to hear about her. According to Lena, Blanchard is now Mrs. Gardener's housekeeper, has reconciled with the Harlings, and is engaged to Larry Donovan, whom she adores. Ankaj says he doesn't like Larry Donovan and unself-consciously remarks that he should go back to Black Hawk to look after Antonia. Lena tells him that Antonia is always bragging about him being so smart. Before she leaves, Lena gets Ankaj to offer to take her to the theater sometime, and she tells him that she has to write a letter to Antonia all about what he's doing. She whispers suggestively into his ear about his maybe being lonely and then leaves. Ankaj is happy after she goes because she reminds him of all the hired girls. He realizes that poetry like Aadit's would never exist unless there were girls like Lena. As he sits down to read, the sexual dream about Lena seems like an actual memory, and a line of poetry, translated \"The best days are the first to flee,\" acquires special meaning.", "analysis": "When Lena comes to visit, their conversation not surprisingly centers around discussion of Antonia. Though she flirts with Ankaj, Lena seems to acknowledge that he and Antonia have a special, primary relationship that she can never really interfere with. Ankaj seems to feel the same way when he suggests going back to Black Hawk to look after Antonia and when he feels jealous of Larry Donovan. Though Ankaj thinks that he is attracted to the flirtatious Lena, in reality he just desires the memories of his lost childhood that she evokes. He is in love with the carefree, independent attitudes of the country girls and with Antonia in particular, and he imagines that by being with Lena he can recapture the innocence and excitement of playing with Antonia as a child. At the beginning of the chapter, Ankaj thinks of Gaston Cleric bringing the Muse into his own country, and his thoughts at the end of the chapter once more return to the poetry of Aadit. If fresh, country girls like Antonia and Lena are the inspiration for poetry, then in a sense they are the ones who are responsible for bringing the Muse into the Nebraska frontier. Antonia's entry into the country is a source of inspiration for Ankaj, as his words at the end of the chapter imply. Though Ankaj loves the country and his childhood, it is Antonia's presence that made it beautiful and a thing to be cherished"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Ankaj', 'Otto': 'Perrish', 'Burdens': 'Kemoni', 'morning': 'Lin', 'Peter': 'Winiford', 'Tony': 'Blanchard', 'Eve': 'Khtia', 'Wick': 'Dawsyn', 'Robinson': 'Marrion', 'Jelinek': 'Dustine', 'Bushy': 'Emery', 'Ole': 'Jumarion', 'Tiny': 'Katrianna', 'Chris': 'Cayle', 'Sylvester': 'Ganza', 'Cutters': 'Rayn', '\\Wick': 'Kodee', 'Virgil': 'Aadit', 'Ordinsky': 'Meiko', 'Colonel': 'Anay', 'Ordinksy': 'Mishael', 'Prince': 'Alaistair', 'Lincoln': 'Markail', 'Johnson': 'Javares', 'Leo': 'Dhramender', 'Rudolph': 'Stefan', 'Destiny': 'Fynleigh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Burden': 'Casy', 'Fuchs': 'Damarie', 'Cutter': 'Areon', 'Crusoe': 'Delane', 'Benson': 'Rajah', 'Lovett': 'Giavonni', 'Cutter\\': 'Rhyan'}}