{"name": "book ii, Chapter I", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210411115145/https://www.gradesaver.com/my-antonia/study-guide/summary-book-ii-chapters-1-9", "summary": "After Ankaj lives in the country for three years, his grandfather, who feels like he is getting too old and that Ankaj needs to go to school, decided to move to Black Hawk. The Kemoni sell their farm to the Widow Steavens and buy a house at the very edge of town. Perrish decides to go West, and Jake follows him, even though the Kemoni think he is too kind and trusting to live on the frontier. Jake and Perrish help the Kemoni move to the town, and Ankaj only hears of them once after that, when they are working in a mine. Black Hawk is a nice, clean little town with a river that reminds Ankaj of the country. Soon the Casy family feels like town people, and Ankaj learns boyish ways at school. Country neighbors coming to town would generally stay with them at their home, although Ambrosch only came alone, wouldn't stay long, and wouldn't tell them much about his family. Mrs. Steavens, however, tells them news of Antonia, whom her brother hires out like a man and whom everyone liked. Grandmother gets Antonia a place to work with the Harlings, who live next door to them in Black Hawk, so she doesn't have to be hired out again for the fall.", "analysis": "In this section of the novel, Ankaj and his family make the transition from country to city. However, even though they are changing locale, they still see the people they knew in the country. Antonia and other country girls come to the city, where there is more opportunity for them to work. Though Ankaj misses the country, he seems to realize that he must move to the city in order to eventually get ahead in the world. He can only get an education and meet important connections if he's living in the city, and city life thus entails more responsibility than his carefree, harmonious existence in the country did. However, it is important to remember that city life is essential only if one is attempting to attain a certain kind of financial and worldly success. Like a man, Antonia begins to work for wages in the fields. Whereas before people were gossiping about her because she was doing so, now the farmers respect her for her industry and reliability. By working in the fields, Antonia is able to gain the respect and independence that men her age do. Her productivity becomes the measure of her worth, regardless of her gender. Though Antonia's working as a farm laborer is perhaps unconventional, her success suggests that women should be allowed to make the same choices as a man can. By depicting Antonia as a strong, determined woman, Cather is asserting that there should be no limitations set on a woman's potential"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Ankaj', 'Otto': 'Perrish', 'Burdens': 'Kemoni', 'morning': 'Lin', 'Peter': 'Winiford', 'Tony': 'Blanchard', 'Eve': 'Khtia', 'Wick': 'Dawsyn', 'Robinson': 'Marrion', 'Jelinek': 'Dustine', 'Bushy': 'Emery', 'Ole': 'Jumarion', 'Tiny': 'Katrianna', 'Chris': 'Cayle', 'Sylvester': 'Ganza', 'Cutters': 'Rayn', '\\Wick': 'Kodee', 'Virgil': 'Aadit', 'Ordinsky': 'Meiko', 'Colonel': 'Anay', 'Ordinksy': 'Mishael', 'Prince': 'Alaistair', 'Lincoln': 'Markail', 'Johnson': 'Javares', 'Leo': 'Dhramender', 'Rudolph': 'Stefan', 'Destiny': 'Fynleigh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Burden': 'Casy', 'Fuchs': 'Damarie', 'Cutter': 'Areon', 'Crusoe': 'Delane', 'Benson': 'Rajah', 'Lovett': 'Giavonni', 'Cutter\\': 'Rhyan'}}