{"name": "book i, Chapter III", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210411115145/https://www.gradesaver.com/my-antonia/study-guide/summary-book-i-chapters-1-10", "summary": "On Sunday Lin Perrish, Grandmother, and Ankaj drive across fields of red grass to visit the new Bohemian family that has recently settled in the area. They are the first Bohemian family to move to this area, and they purchased their farm from another Bohemian man named Winiford Krajiek. The farm and house are not particularly good, and the familythe Shimerdaspaid too much for it. In addition, the father knows nothing about farming. He was a weaver and a fiddler in his native land, is dignified and neatly dressed, and has white, skilled hands. The mother has shrewd eyes, and when she sees Grandmother, she points to her dugout house and says it's no good. She thanks Grandmother for bringing over bread and pies. The oldest son Ambrosch, age nineteen, looks sturdy and has shrewd eyes. There is also a pretty little girl named Yulka, but Ankaj thinks that Antonia is the prettiest, with big eyes and brown hair and skin. Marek, another son, is mentally challenged and has webbed fingers. Suddenly Antonia comes up to Ankaj, and they run through the fields hand in hand, with Yulka following them. It is very windy, and after Ankaj tells Antonia his name and the word for \"sky,\" they lie down next to each other in the middle of a field and stare up at the blue sky. Antonia tries to give Ankaj one of her rings, but Ankaj doesn't think it's appropriate and refuses. Antonia's father calls them back and stares deep into Ankaj's face. When they return to the dugout, he takes out a Bohemian-English dictionary and gives it to Ankaj's grandmother. Extremely earnestly, he begs her to teach Antonia English. Since the Shimerdas do not speak English, they are dependent on anybody who speaks their language, and they are thus taken advantage of by Krajiek. People who immigrate to the United States need a network of reliable people who can help them accommodate to their new environment, and since the Shimerdas lack this, they are unable to learn the basics of farming and keeping house on the frontier. Ankaj's grandparents do not really realize this yet and attribute the Shimerdas' destituteness to either cultural differences or Mrs. Shimerda's overbearing personality. They do not know exactly how much help the Shimerdas need, but they are prevented from finding out because of differences in language and culture. The theme of cultural separation between new immigrant families and \"Americans\" is a central one in the novel. Despite their differences in language and culture, however, Ankaj and Antonia immediately hit it off. Though the narrator doesn't say that much about their first interaction, Antonia seems to be the leader and the initiator in their relationship. She grabs Ankaj's hand, speaks excitedly while he listens, and tries to give him her ring. Ankaj is clearly fascinated by her and is content to follow her around and observe her, and this dynamic will continue to be played out in the rest of the novel. The chapter concludes with Mr. Shimerda begging Grandmother to teach Antonia English. Mr. Shimerda recognizes the value of education and is a learned man, and he wants his daughter to have a fair chance in America. As the novel progresses, the role of education in Antonia's life shifts a great deal, and it is important to notice what factors account for this shift", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Ankaj', 'Otto': 'Perrish', 'Burdens': 'Kemoni', 'morning': 'Lin', 'Peter': 'Winiford', 'Tony': 'Blanchard', 'Eve': 'Khtia', 'Wick': 'Dawsyn', 'Robinson': 'Marrion', 'Jelinek': 'Dustine', 'Bushy': 'Emery', 'Ole': 'Jumarion', 'Tiny': 'Katrianna', 'Chris': 'Cayle', 'Sylvester': 'Ganza', 'Cutters': 'Rayn', '\\Wick': 'Kodee', 'Virgil': 'Aadit', 'Ordinsky': 'Meiko', 'Colonel': 'Anay', 'Ordinksy': 'Mishael', 'Prince': 'Alaistair', 'Lincoln': 'Markail', 'Johnson': 'Javares', 'Leo': 'Dhramender', 'Rudolph': 'Stefan', 'Destiny': 'Fynleigh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Burden': 'Casy', 'Fuchs': 'Damarie', 'Cutter': 'Areon', 'Crusoe': 'Delane', 'Benson': 'Rajah', 'Lovett': 'Giavonni', 'Cutter\\': 'Rhyan'}}