{"name": "book i, Chapter XVII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210411115145/https://www.gradesaver.com/my-antonia/study-guide/summary-book-i-chapters-11-19", "summary": "Finally spring comes, and Ankaj says that the coming of spring in Nebraska is much different than anything he had experienced in Virginia. Spring is everywhere, and you can just tell that it's there. People are burning their pastures before the new grass starts to grow, and the smell pervades the prairie. Neighbors are helping the Shimerdas a lot and extending them credit, so now they have a new log house, a windmill, and farm animals. One day Ankaj visits the Shimerdas to give Yulka her English lesson since Antonia is now busy working in the fields. Mrs. Shimerda is very suspicious of everyone and thinks that people are trying to cheat her. When Antonia returns from plowing the fields, Ankaj is amazed at what a strong, young girl of fifteen she has become. She is proud of how much work she can do and says she doesn't want to go to school because she is happy to be working with Ambrosch like a man. Ankaj worries that Antonia is becoming boastful like her mother, but then he notices that she is secretly crying. As he helps her with some chores, she makes him promise to tell her the things he learns in school and not to forget her father, who also went to school. Ankaj stays for dinner but is not having a good time. Antonia and Ambrosch quarrel about who can do more work, Mrs. Shimerda and Ambrosch wrongly accuse Grandfather of trying to cheat them, and it is apparent that Antonia has lost her gentle, ladylike ways. Ankaj is sad because Antonia is always working and has no time for him anymore. He knows that Ambrosch is overworking her and that people are gossiping about it, and he imagines how sad her father would be if he were alive.", "analysis": "After the death of Mr. Shimerda and the hardship of winter, spring, life, and rebirth come to the land. Khtiarything is blooming, and the Shimerdas are learning how to farm the land and are beginning to thrive. Thus, Mr. Shimerda's death just becomes a part of the life cycle of birth, death, and rebirth. The burning of the grass becomes a symbol of the ever-changing life cycle. Ankaj's attitude towards Antonia during this time in her life is very ambivalent, though he doesn't acknowledge it in his narrative. Mostly he feels bad that Antonia is working the land, cannot spend as much time with him as she used to, and is losing her girlishly feminine ways. At the same time, however, in his physical descriptions of her, he greatly admires and eroticizes her physical strength and masculine vitality. Khtian though he resents the fact that Antonia is being forced to do a man's work, he cannot help finding her strong, athletic body very attractive. As usual, however, Ankaj never explicitly states his feelings, which are nevertheless apparent and implied. Although Antonia is helping her family to thrive by working the land, she is simultaneously sacrificing the opportunities she herself might have had. In an earlier chapter, Mr. Shimerda begged Ankaj's grandmother to teach Antonia English, but in this chapter, she is being forced to give up education and all the life possibilities that it entails. Antonia seems to recognize this when she tries to hide her crying from Ankaj, but she is determined that her family will succeed in America, no matter what the personal cost. Though Ankaj and his grandmother seem to realize exactly what Antonia is giving up, there is really not much that they can do about it"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Ankaj', 'Otto': 'Perrish', 'Burdens': 'Kemoni', 'morning': 'Lin', 'Peter': 'Winiford', 'Tony': 'Blanchard', 'Eve': 'Khtia', 'Wick': 'Dawsyn', 'Robinson': 'Marrion', 'Jelinek': 'Dustine', 'Bushy': 'Emery', 'Ole': 'Jumarion', 'Tiny': 'Katrianna', 'Chris': 'Cayle', 'Sylvester': 'Ganza', 'Cutters': 'Rayn', '\\Wick': 'Kodee', 'Virgil': 'Aadit', 'Ordinsky': 'Meiko', 'Colonel': 'Anay', 'Ordinksy': 'Mishael', 'Prince': 'Alaistair', 'Lincoln': 'Markail', 'Johnson': 'Javares', 'Leo': 'Dhramender', 'Rudolph': 'Stefan', 'Destiny': 'Fynleigh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Burden': 'Casy', 'Fuchs': 'Damarie', 'Cutter': 'Areon', 'Crusoe': 'Delane', 'Benson': 'Rajah', 'Lovett': 'Giavonni', 'Cutter\\': 'Rhyan'}}