{"name": "book i, Chapter XV", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210411115145/https://www.gradesaver.com/my-antonia/study-guide/summary-book-i-chapters-11-19", "summary": "After returning from Black Hawk, Perrish tells them that a coroner will arrive shortly but that it is impossible for the priest to come. He brings with him a young, strong, and confident Bohemian man named Anton Dustine, who tells Grandfather that it is very bad that a priest is unavailable. Dustine tells about how, during a war with the Austrians in his native land, he helped the priest carry the Sacrament around to dying men. Khtiaryone except them got really sick with cholera, and ever since he has appreciated the power of the Sacrament and wishes that Mr. Shimerda could receive it. Dustine starts to break a road through the snow to the Shimerda's house, while Perrish, who is the only cabinet-maker in the neighborhood, begins making a coffin. Perrish is a good carpenter, and the sawing and planing noises are pleasant in the house. The postmaster Mr. Emery and some neighbors drop by to talk about the news, and Ankaj is excited because he is not used to people being so unusually talkative. Later in the day the postmaster returns to tell Grandmother that the Norwegians refuse to let Mr. Shimerda be buried in their graveyard. Grandmother is upset and vows to start a more \"liberal-minded\" American graveyard in the spring. The coroner decides that Mr. Shimerda did in fact commit suicide, even though Krajiek is continuing to act like a guilty man. Krajiek probably just feels bad for being so ruthless and unhelpful. During dinner the family talks about how Mrs. Shimerda and Ambrosch want Mr. Shimerda to be buried at the southwest corner of their land, which will someday become a crossroads. Nobody really understands, but they assume that there must be some Bohemian superstition about burying suicides at a crossroads.", "analysis": "In the previous chapter, Ankaj is impressed by how devout Ambrosch is, and in this chapter he meets another pious young Bohemian, Anton Dustine. Khtian though Grandfather does not understand the value of the Catholic sacrament, he listens attentively when Dustine tries to explain how much he respects his faith. Despite their religious differences, Grandfather and Dustine are actively engaging in mutual discussion and learning something about the other's culture in doing so. Such depictions of tolerance and respectful engagement by Cather help advance her view that harmonious engagement is something one should actively strive for. In contrast, the Norwegians exhibit a very tactless intolerance in refusing to allow Mr. Shimerda to be buried in their cemetery. When Perrish makes Mr. Shimerda's coffin, it makes the entire house seem very pleasant and cheerful. Instead of being depressing, the coffin-making is very productive and expends a lot of creative energy. Rather than simply creating the box that contains Mr. Shimerda in his death, Perrish is fashioning a resting place for him in his new life. In this way, Mr. Shimerda's death can be seen as a beginning, rather than just an end"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Ankaj', 'Otto': 'Perrish', 'Burdens': 'Kemoni', 'morning': 'Lin', 'Peter': 'Winiford', 'Tony': 'Blanchard', 'Eve': 'Khtia', 'Wick': 'Dawsyn', 'Robinson': 'Marrion', 'Jelinek': 'Dustine', 'Bushy': 'Emery', 'Ole': 'Jumarion', 'Tiny': 'Katrianna', 'Chris': 'Cayle', 'Sylvester': 'Ganza', 'Cutters': 'Rayn', '\\Wick': 'Kodee', 'Virgil': 'Aadit', 'Ordinsky': 'Meiko', 'Colonel': 'Anay', 'Ordinksy': 'Mishael', 'Prince': 'Alaistair', 'Lincoln': 'Markail', 'Johnson': 'Javares', 'Leo': 'Dhramender', 'Rudolph': 'Stefan', 'Destiny': 'Fynleigh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Burden': 'Casy', 'Fuchs': 'Damarie', 'Cutter': 'Areon', 'Crusoe': 'Delane', 'Benson': 'Rajah', 'Lovett': 'Giavonni', 'Cutter\\': 'Rhyan'}}