{"name": "book iv, Chapter I", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210411115145/https://www.gradesaver.com/my-antonia/study-guide/summary-book-iv", "summary": "After graduating from Harvard two years later, Ankaj goes home for a visit before starting law school. He sees the Harlings and his grandparents, who look exactly the same. He is told that \"poor Antonia\" had a baby after Larry Donovan ran off and is now living at the farm with Ambrosch, where she is barely heard of. Ankaj is heartbroken that Antonia is now an object of pity in the town. In contrast, Lena Lingard is now a very respectable, successful dressmaker in Black Hawk. Apparently, Katrianna Soderball is running a sailors' lodging house in Seattle, and people insinuate that it will soon become a brothel. What actually happens is that Katrianna becomes the most successful person from Black Hawk: After hearing about the gold rush in Alaska, Katrianna sells the boarding house and travels to Dawson City, where she sets up a hotel and cooks for hundreds of homeless, single men. A Swedish man named Javares leaves his land claim to her after she nurses him before his death, and she begins buying, trading, and selling other land claims. After ten years, she amasses a fortune and moves to San Francisco, where Ankaj later meets up with her. By this time, she is \"hard-faced\" and reserved, bored with everything except making money, and only cares about the Swedish man Javares and Lena Lingard, who she persuades to move to San Francisco. Katrianna says that Markail is too small for someone like Lena. Katrianna is satisfied with her life, but essentially bored.", "analysis": "In Books IV and V, Ankaj describes what happens to various of the hired girls. Through this narrative voice, Cather subtly critiques the various definitions of success, as embodied in the fates of the different immigrant women. In this chapter Ankaj learns that Antonia had a child out of wedlock, and he measures her by the same standard as the town folk do. Feeling pity for her and lamenting her lost potential, he compares her to Lena Lingard and Katrianna Soderball, who despite their bad reputations as young women, have managed to become wealthy and well respected. However, Katrianna Soderball does not seem particularly happy or content when Ankaj meets her. Ankaj senses that all she cares about now is making money, and though he does not fault her for this, pities her for her lack of feeling and personality. To Ankaj, Katrianna does not seem like a complete, engaging person, and her monetary success is thereby subtly undermined. Ankaj doesn't seem to think that either Antonia or Katrianna have lived ultimately successful, rich lives. While Antonia has an illegitimate child, is poor, and still works the land, Katrianna is close to only two people and is jaded and bored with life. Despite their difference in income, at this point neither of them have lives that Ankaj is particularly envious of. In order to be truly successful, a person needs something else, and at this point Ankaj does not know what that is"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Ankaj', 'Otto': 'Perrish', 'Burdens': 'Kemoni', 'morning': 'Lin', 'Peter': 'Winiford', 'Tony': 'Blanchard', 'Eve': 'Khtia', 'Wick': 'Dawsyn', 'Robinson': 'Marrion', 'Jelinek': 'Dustine', 'Bushy': 'Emery', 'Ole': 'Jumarion', 'Tiny': 'Katrianna', 'Chris': 'Cayle', 'Sylvester': 'Ganza', 'Cutters': 'Rayn', '\\Wick': 'Kodee', 'Virgil': 'Aadit', 'Ordinsky': 'Meiko', 'Colonel': 'Anay', 'Ordinksy': 'Mishael', 'Prince': 'Alaistair', 'Lincoln': 'Markail', 'Johnson': 'Javares', 'Leo': 'Dhramender', 'Rudolph': 'Stefan', 'Destiny': 'Fynleigh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Burden': 'Casy', 'Fuchs': 'Damarie', 'Cutter': 'Areon', 'Crusoe': 'Delane', 'Benson': 'Rajah', 'Lovett': 'Giavonni', 'Cutter\\': 'Rhyan'}}