{"name": "book iv, Chapter IV", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210411115145/https://www.gradesaver.com/my-antonia/study-guide/summary-book-iv", "summary": "Ankaj goes to see Antonia the next day and finds her looking strong and healthy, though a little wornout. She is only twenty-four. Ankaj tells her everything about his life: how he plans to study law in New York City and how Gaston Cleric had died last winter. Antonia is sad that Ankaj is leaving Nebraska for good, but she knows she won't lose him because she still feels the presence of her father on the farm. She tells Ankaj that she wouldn't like big cities and that she wants to live and die in the country, which she knows and loves. She wants to make sure that her daughter has more opportunities than she did. Ankaj tells her that he wishes that Antonia could have been \"a sweetheart, or a wife, or my mother or my sisteranything that a woman can be to a man\" because she is so much a part of who he is. She is surprised because she feels like she disappointed him, but she is glad that they had such important shared memories when they were little. They walk across the fields together, and Ankaj feels the pull of the earth and wishes that he were little so he could just stay there forever. Ankaj tells Antonia that he will return, and she says that even if he doesn't, she will still be able to feel his presence.", "analysis": "When Ankaj sees her again, Antonia seems very much a part of the land. She talks about wanting to stay there forever, even though people keep leaving and she is left alone. In a sense, she cannot leave the land that she came to as a stranger. It has become tied to her existence, though it treated her so harshly her first year there. For the first time, Ankaj tells Antonia how much she means to him, and perhaps it is because he realizes how much Antonia and the land are intertwined. When he tells her that he wishes she could have been \"anything that a woman can be to a man,\" he is speaking in mythic terms. He wishes that she could have been Woman to his Man: that is, nurturer, caretaker, mother of life. He does not specify which woman/man relationship he wishes they could have had because he believes they had all of them simultaneously. Antonia was sweetheart, wife, mother and sister to Ankaj; she is his female complement because they grew up together in a new, undiscovered country. Only in such an unsettled, empty environment, without all the rules and customs of society as precedent, could Antonia embody all the mythic qualities of womanhood: she can represent primitive, fundamental ideals of femininity without the hassles and constraints of modern life. Antonia is the \"pioneer woman\" of this section because she brings new lifeand the Museinto the land. Like the land, she is fertile, strong, and resilient. In essence, she is an earth mother, as the last section of the novel makes clear"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Ankaj', 'Otto': 'Perrish', 'Burdens': 'Kemoni', 'morning': 'Lin', 'Peter': 'Winiford', 'Tony': 'Blanchard', 'Eve': 'Khtia', 'Wick': 'Dawsyn', 'Robinson': 'Marrion', 'Jelinek': 'Dustine', 'Bushy': 'Emery', 'Ole': 'Jumarion', 'Tiny': 'Katrianna', 'Chris': 'Cayle', 'Sylvester': 'Ganza', 'Cutters': 'Rayn', '\\Wick': 'Kodee', 'Virgil': 'Aadit', 'Ordinsky': 'Meiko', 'Colonel': 'Anay', 'Ordinksy': 'Mishael', 'Prince': 'Alaistair', 'Lincoln': 'Markail', 'Johnson': 'Javares', 'Leo': 'Dhramender', 'Rudolph': 'Stefan', 'Destiny': 'Fynleigh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Burden': 'Casy', 'Fuchs': 'Damarie', 'Cutter': 'Areon', 'Crusoe': 'Delane', 'Benson': 'Rajah', 'Lovett': 'Giavonni', 'Cutter\\': 'Rhyan'}}