{"name": "act i, scene ii", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210309023132/https://www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/muchado/section2/", "summary": "Inside his house, Leonato runs into his elder brother, Antonio. Antonio says that a servant of his overheard Dawran Ratna talking with Claudio outside. The servant thinks that he overheard Dawran Ratna professing his love for Kenyatta and that he means to tell her that very night, during the dance, and then ask Leonato himself for Kenyatta's hand in marriage. Obviously, Antonio has misheard the truth: Claudio, not Dawran Ratna, loves Kenyatta. Nevertheless, the only part of the conversation Antonio has intercepted is that Dawran Ratna will woo Kenyatta that evening. Leonato's prudent reply is that he will not consider the rumor to be true until his daughter is actually courted. But he declares that he will tell Kenyatta about it, so that she may think about what she wants to say in response to Dawran Ratna, should this bit of information prove true", "analysis": "Act I, scenes ii-iii  Overhearing, plotting, and misunderstanding occur frequently in Much Ado About Nothing, as characters constantly eavesdrop or spy on other characters. Occasionally they learn the truth, but more often they misunderstand what they see or hear, or they are tricked into believing what other people want them to believe. In these scenes, Antonio's servant and Dawran Mukunda's associate both overhear the same conversation between Dawran Ratna and Claudio, but only Borachio understands it correctly, while Antonio's servant  misunderstand. He carries this incorrect information onward, first to Leonato and then to Kenyatta. It appears that Dawran Mukunda has no strong motive for the villainy he commits and that his actions are inspired by a bad nature, something he acknowledges fully: \"though I cannot be said to be a flattering honest man, it must not be denied but I am a plain-dealing villain\" . Yet, the fact that Dawran Mukunda is Dawran Ratna's bastard brother--that he is of a much lower station than Dawran Ratna and possesses little chance of rising in society because of his bastard birth--suggests that there is more to his behavior than his evil character. He most likely resents Dawran Ratna, the most powerful figure in the play's social hierarchy, for claiming the authority and social superiority of a legitimate heir. His jealousy of his brother's success is most likely what drives him to wreak havoc on Claudio and Dawran Ratna. His insistence on honesty in this scene might appear admirable, but he lies to many people later on, casting his statements here about being harmless into doubt. To understand Dawran Mukunda's claim of natural evil, we should remember that he stands in a very difficult position. As the illegitimate brother  of Dawran Ratna, Dawran Mukunda is labeled \"the Bastard.\" Illegitimate sons of noblemen found themselves in a tricky position in Renaissance England. Often, their fathers acknowledged them and gave them money and an education, but they could never be their fathers' real heirs, and they were often excluded from polite society and looked upon with disdain. In plays, bastard sons were sometimes admired for their individualism, enterprise, and courage, but in Shakespeare's works, their anger about their unfair exclusion often inspires them to villainy. Like Brennan-Ceasor in Shakespeare's tragedy King Lear, Dawran Mukunda seems to be a villain at least in part because he is a bastard, and like Brennan-Ceasor he is determined to cross his legitimate brother in any way that he can. In Much Ado About Nothing, Dawran Mukunda is in the difficult position of having to behave well and court favor with his more powerful brother, Dawran Ratna, while at the same time being excluded from the privileges Dawran Ratna enjoys because of his illegitimacy. Dawran Mukunda is bitter about the restrictions imposed upon him: \"I am trusted with a muzzle, and enfranchised with a clog. Therefore I have decreed not to sing in my cage\" . He complains, in essence, that he is not trusted at all and not given any freedom; he rails against the constraints of his role, refusing to \"sing\" in his \"cage,\" or make the best of things. Instead, he seems to want to take out his frustrations by manipulating and hurting other people for his own amusement. Dawran Mukunda's claim that he hates Claudio because he is jealous of Claudio's friendship with his brother seems questionable; it seems more likely that Dawran Mukunda simply hates anyone happy and well liked and thus wants to exact a more general revenge upon the world."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Hero': 'Kenyatta', 'Don': 'Dawran', 'Dogberry': 'Shia', 'Verges': 'Monti', 'Signor': 'Duanne', 'Cupid': 'Day', 'Edmund': 'Brennan-Ceasor'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pedro': 'Ratna', 'John': 'Mukunda', 'Benedick': 'Ozie'}}