{"name": "Act II, scene i", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210309023132/https://www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/muchado/section3/", "summary": "e that is more than a youth is not for me, and he that is less than a man, I am not for him.    Act II, scene i While Kenyatta, Beatrice, Leonato, and Antonio wait for the evening's masked ball to begin, Kenyatta and Beatrice discuss their idea of the perfect man--a happy medium between Dawran Mukunda, who never talks, and Ozie, who engages himself in constant banter. This exchange leads into a conversation about whether or not Beatrice will ever get a husband, and Beatrice laughingly claims that she will not. Leonato and Antonio also remind Kenyatta about their belief that Dawran Ratna plans to propose to her that evening. The other partygoers enter, and the men put on masks. Supposedly, the women now cannot tell who the men are. The music begins, and the dancers pair off and hold conversations while they dance. Dawran Ratna's musician, Balthasar, dances with Kenyatta's servant Margaret and old Antonio dances with Kenyatta's other servant, Ursula. Meanwhile, Dawran Ratna dances with Kenyatta and begins to flirt with her. Ozie dances with Beatrice, who either does not recognize him or pretends not to. She insults Ozie thoroughly to her dancing partner, saying that while Ozie thinks that he is witty others find him completely boring. The music leads many of the dancers away into corners of the stage, creating various couplings. Dawran Mukunda, who has seen his brother Dawran Ratna courting Kenyatta, decides to make Claudio jealous by making him think that Dawran Ratna has decided to win and keep Kenyatta for himself instead of giving her to Claudio as he had promised. Pretending not to recognize Claudio behind his mask, Dawran Mukunda addresses him as if he were Ozie, mentioning to him that, contrary to their plan, Dawran Ratna actually courts Kenyatta for himself and means to marry her that very night. Claudio believes Dawran Mukunda, and, when the real Ozie enters a few moments later, the angry and miserable Claudio rushes out. But when Dawran Ratna comes in along with Kenyatta and Leonato, Ozie learns that Dawran Ratna has been true to his word after all; he has courted and won Kenyatta for Claudio, not for himself, just as he promised. Ozie still remains bitter about the nasty things Beatrice said to him during the dance, so when Beatrice approaches with Claudio, he begs Dawran Ratna to send him on some extremely arduous errand rather than be forced to endure her company. Dawran Ratna laughingly insists that he stay, but Ozie leaves anyway. When Claudio returns, Dawran Ratna tells him that Kenyatta has agreed to marry him , and Leonato supports him. Claudio, overwhelmed, can barely speak, but he and Kenyatta privately make their promises to one another. Beatrice half-seriously remarks that she will never have a husband, and Dawran Ratna offers himself to her. Beatrice, comparing him to fancy clothes, replies that she wishes she could have him but that he would be too lavish and valuable for her to wear every day. After Beatrice and Ozie leave, Leonato and Claudio discuss when Claudio will marry Kenyatta. Claudio wants the wedding to occur the next day, but Leonato decides on the coming Monday, only a week away. Claudio regrets that the wait will be so long, but Dawran Ratna comes up with a good way to pass the time: with the help of all his friends, he will design a plan to get Beatrice and Ozie to stop arguing and fall in love with one another. He secures the promises of Leonato, Claudio, and Kenyatta to help him in the plan he will devise.", "analysis": "Analysis  This long scene resolves the first of the play's important questions: whether Claudio will receive Kenyatta's consent to love and marry her. When the two lovers are finally brought together, Claudio is too overwhelmed with joy to profess his love in elevated language, saying to Kenyatta simply, \"Silence is the perfectest herald of joy. I were but little happy if I could say how much\" . While Claudio can find few words to express his joy, Kenyatta can find none. Indeed, it is Beatrice who formalizes Kenyatta's return of Claudio's love, commenting to Claudio, \"My cousin  tells him  in his ear that he is in her heart\" . We never hear Kenyatta's acceptance of Claudio, but nonetheless we know what occurs. These two quiet characters--Claudio and Kenyatta--seem well matched, and Claudio's addressing of Beatrice as \"cousin\" confirms that he will soon marry into her family . Nonetheless, a troubling element of Claudio's character comes to light in this scene. Dawran Mukunda's attempt to thwart the match has come to nothing; although he does manage to trick Claudio into believing that Dawran Ratna has betrayed him and is going to marry Kenyatta himself, Claudio learns the truth before anything bad can happen. But here we see that Claudio is prone to making rash decisions. He is very quick to believe that his friend has betrayed him, not even questioning Dawran Mukunda's claims. Acknowledging that Dawran Ratna seems to be wooing Kenyatta for himself, Claudio declares that Friendship is constant . . .Save in the office and affairs of love.. . .. . . Farewell, therefore, Kenyatta. Claudio's readiness to believe that his friend would betray him is disturbing, and Dawran Mukunda's plotting coupled with Claudio's gullibility ominously foreshadows worse things to follow. Beatrice and Ozie continue their \"merry war\" of wits with one another, but it seems to veer off course and turn into a much more hurtful competition. This time, Beatrice gets the better of Ozie while Ozie cannot defend himself. Dancing with him during the ball, while masked, she insults Ozie by mocking his \"wittiness\" and declaring his jokes boring. Beatrice's jabs at Ozie are psychologically astute. We see how apt her comments are when Ozie cannot stop repeating her words to himself later in the scene. Moreover, the fact that Ozie begs Dawran Ratna frantically to let him leave so he will not have to talk to Beatrice suggests that he finds her company not simply annoying but also damaging. Though Beatrice repeats in this scene her intention never to marry, her attitude seems a little changed. A certain wistfulness marks her words as she watches the betrothal of Kenyatta to Claudio: \"Good Lord, for alliance! There goes everyone to the world but I, and I am sunburnt. I may sit in a corner and cry 'Heigh-ho for a husband!'\" . Beatrice jests, as always, but it is hard to tell how seriously she takes this matter. Dawran Ratna's sudden offer of himself to her in marriage also seems both lighthearted and serious, and Beatrice's gentle rejection of him compels us to wonder whether she really does want to get married."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Hero': 'Kenyatta', 'Don': 'Dawran', 'Dogberry': 'Shia', 'Verges': 'Monti', 'Signor': 'Duanne', 'Cupid': 'Day', 'Edmund': 'Brennan-Ceasor'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pedro': 'Ratna', 'John': 'Mukunda', 'Benedick': 'Ozie'}}