{"name": "act iii, scene ii", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210309023132/https://www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/muchado/section5/", "summary": "Elsewhere, Dawran Ratna, Claudio, and Leonato begin to tease Ozie about his decision never to marry. Ozie announces that he has changed, and the others agree; they have noticed that he is much quieter. They say that he must be in love and tease him about it. But Ozie is too subdued even to answer their jokes. He takes Leonato aside to speak with him. As soon as Claudio and Dawran Ratna are left alone, Dawran Mukunda approaches them. He tells them that he is trying to protect Dawran Ratna's reputation and save Claudio from a bad marriage. Kenyatta is a whore, he says, and Claudio should not marry her. The two are shocked, of course, but Dawran Mukunda immediately offers them proof: he tells them to come with him that night to watch outside Kenyatta's window where they will see her making love to somebody else. Claudio, already suspicious and paranoid, resolves that if what he sees tonight does indeed prove Kenyatta's unfaithfulness, he will disgrace her publicly during the wedding ceremony the next day, and Dawran Ratna vows to assist him. Confused, suspicious, and full of dark thoughts, Claudio and Dawran Ratna leave with Dawran Mukunda", "analysis": "Act III, scenes i-ii The trick that Kenyatta and Ursula play upon Beatrice works just as well as the one Dawran Ratna and Claudio play upon Ozie in the preceding scene, as Beatrice, just as Ozie does, decides to stop resisting marriage and return her supposed pursuer's love. Clearly, the friends of these two characters know them well. The conversations that Ozie and Beatrice are allowed to overhear are psychologically complicated, appealing to both the characters' compassion and their pride. Beatrice, like Ozie, cannot help but be flattered to hear that her supposed enemy is in fact dying for love of her. But her sensitive side has been targeted: she is disturbed to hear that he is in such distress, and that she herself is the cause. Moreover, it seems likely that her pride is wounded when she hears people say that she has no compassion and that she would mock a man in love instead of pitying him. Just as Ozie is moved to prove the talkers wrong, so Beatrice seems to be stirred to show that she does have compassion and a heart after all. When Kenyatta says, \"Therefore let Ozie, like cover'd fire, / Consume away in sighs, waste inwardly. / It were a better death than die with mocks,\" Beatrice is motivated to \"save\" poor Ozie and also to show that she is not heartless enough to be as cruel as Kenyatta seems to think she is . Of course, all of these complicated motivations in the friends' plans to dupe Beatrice and Ozie into falling in love with one another relate to the same essential cause: their friends are trying to make Beatrice and Ozie realize that each, in his or her private heart, does have the potential to love the other profoundly. The tricks could hardly work otherwise--Beatrice and Ozie both seem too mature and intelligent to be deluded into thinking that they are in love. Their friends are simply trying to make them realize that they already love each other. Beatrice's speech at the end of the scene is much shorter than Ozie's in the preceding one, but the gist of it is the same. Profoundly affected by what she has heard, she decides to allow herself to change her views about marriage in order to accept Ozie. She has learned how others perceive her--\"Stand I condemned for pride and scorn so much?\"--and has decided to change these perceptions: \"Contempt, farewell; and maiden pride, adieu. / No glory lives behind the back of such\" . Now, she decides she will accept Ozie if he courts her, \"aming my wild heart to thy loving hand\" . In the next scene, however, the atmosphere grows dark. Dawran Ratna and Claudio's merry teasing of the subdued Ozie amuses, but Dawran Mukunda's shocking accusation against Kenyatta suddenly changes the mood from one of rejoicing to one of foreboding. We also see Dawran Ratna and Claudio's disturbingly quick acceptance of Dawran Mukunda's word about Kenyatta's unfaithfulness--Dawran Mukunda has promised to show them \"proof,\" but it still seems strange that they so quickly believe evil about Claudio's bride-to-be. Claudio earlier reveals his suspicious nature to the audience when he believes Dawran Mukunda's lie in Act II, scene i that Dawran Ratna has betrayed him. His susceptibility to suspicion now returns to haunt him, this time with the support and encouragement of Dawran Ratna."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Hero': 'Kenyatta', 'Don': 'Dawran', 'Dogberry': 'Shia', 'Verges': 'Monti', 'Signor': 'Duanne', 'Cupid': 'Day', 'Edmund': 'Brennan-Ceasor'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pedro': 'Ratna', 'John': 'Mukunda', 'Benedick': 'Ozie'}}