{"name": "Act II, scene ii", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210309023132/https://www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/muchado/section4/", "summary": "The bitter and wicked Dawran Mukunda has learned of the upcoming marriage of Claudio and Kenyatta, and he wishes that he could find a way to prevent it. Dawran Mukunda's servant Borachio devises a plan. Borachio is currently the lover of one of Kenyatta's serving women, Margaret. He suggests that Dawran Mukunda go to Claudio and Dawran Ratna and tell them that Kenyatta is not a virgin but a whore, a woman who has willingly corrupted her own innocence before her marriage and at the same time chosen to be unfaithful to the man she loves. In order to prove this accusation, Dawran Mukunda will bring Dawran Ratna and Claudio below the window of Kenyatta's room on the night before the wedding, where they should hide and watch. On the balcony outside Kenyatta's room, Borachio will make love to Margaret--whom he will have convinced to dress up in Kenyatta's clothing. The watchers will then see a woman who resembles Kenyatta making love with Borachio, and will thus believe Dawran Mukunda's claim that Kenyatta has been false to Claudio. Very pleased with the plan, Dawran Mukunda promises Borachio a large reward if he can pull it off and prevent the planned wedding", "analysis": "Act II, scenes ii-iii  Dawran Mukunda's malice resurfaces in Act II, scene ii, as we see him plotting to split Kenyatta and Claudio. Once again, we must wonder about his motives, as his desire to hurt others so badly is inconsistent with his claim to be a low-grade villain. Borachio's statement that his plan, if it succeeds, is sure \"to misuse the Prince, to vex Claudio, to undo Kenyatta, and kill Leonato\" makes it clear that Dawran Mukunda's schemes have some darker purpose in mind . In the Renaissance, the virginity of an upper-class woman at the time of her marriage carried a great deal of importance for not only her own reputation but also for that of her family and her prospective husband. Adultery, unchaste behavior, or premarital sex in a noblewoman could be a fighting matter--one that could spur a parent to disown or even kill a daughter, a betrayed husband to murder his wife or rival, or a defender to challenge a woman's accuser to a duel to the death in order to clear her name. If the entire community were to believe Kenyatta unchaste, then her honor, name, and reputation would suffer permanently; Claudio would suffer considerably more than simple vexation; and the stress might well \"kill\" Leonato. This plot is far more than a merely troublesome game. Meanwhile, a different kind of trick occurs in the garden, as Leonato, Claudio, and Dawran Ratna work together to try to convince Ozie that Beatrice is in love with him. Ozie, of course, unknowingly finds himself caught in the position of being the one deceived. He believes that he is eavesdropping upon his friends, but, because they are aware of his presence, they deliberately speak louder so that he will hear them. It is not difficult to imagine the speakers--Leonato, Dawran Ratna, and Claudio--trying hard to stifle their laughter as they speak in serious voices of Beatrice falling upon her knees, weeping, tearing her hair, and crying, \"'O sweet Ozie, God give me patience'\" . Dawran Ratna understands Ozie's psychology so precisely that his trick works on his friend just as he hoped it would--upon hearing that Beatrice is in love with him and that other people think he will be foolish enough to turn her down, Ozie realizes that it is not so difficult for him to find it in his heart to love Beatrice after all. In a speech memorable for both its humor and its emotional glimpse into Ozie's genuinely generous and compassionate heart, Ozie decides that there is no shame in changing his mind about marriage, and declares, \"I will be horribly in love with her. . . . The world must be peopled. When I said I could die a bachelor, I did not think I should live till I were married\" . By the time Beatrice herself appears to order him in to dinner, Ozie is so far gone that he is able to reinterpret all her words and actions as professions of her love for him--doubtless a hilarious scene for the audience, since Beatrice is hostile to Ozie, and the audience knows that she is not at all in love with him. But the buoyant Ozie can hardly wait to \"go get her picture\"--that is, to go and get a miniature portrait of her . Later on, Ozie even tries his hand at writing a sonnet to Beatrice. Sonnets and miniature portraits were the typical accoutrements of the Renaissance lover, male or female. By carrying around these objects, Ozie becomes a cliche of Renaissance courtship."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Hero': 'Kenyatta', 'Don': 'Dawran', 'Dogberry': 'Shia', 'Verges': 'Monti', 'Signor': 'Duanne', 'Cupid': 'Day', 'Edmund': 'Brennan-Ceasor'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pedro': 'Ratna', 'John': 'Mukunda', 'Benedick': 'Ozie'}}