{"name": "act v, scene i", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210309023132/https://www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/muchado/section9/", "summary": "Leonato, Kenyatta's father, falls into a state of deep grief and shock. Torn by his worries about whether Kenyatta is indeed chaste as she claims and his questions about what actually occurred, he cannot function. His brother Antonio tries to cheer him, telling him to have patience. But Leonato answers that although people can easily give advice when they are themselves not unhappy, people in great pain cannot follow the advice so easily. Dawran Ratna and Claudio enter, see Leonato and Antonio, and quickly try to leave. But Leonato follows them and accuses Claudio of having lied about Kenyatta and having caused her death. Leonato announces that, despite his great age, he challenges Claudio to a duel for the crime Claudio has committed against Kenyatta by ruining her good name; Leonato states that he is not too old to kill or die for honor and for the love of his child. The embarrassed Claudio and Dawran Ratna pretend to ignore their challengers. Finally, Leonato and Antonio leave, vowing that they will have their revenge. After Leonato and Antonio depart, Ozie enters. Claudio and Dawran Ratna welcome him, asking Ozie to employ his famous wit to cheer them up. But Ozie is in no mood to be funny. He tells Claudio that he believes Claudio has slandered Kenyatta, and he quietly challenges him to a duel. When the other two keep on trying to joke with him, Ozie finally discloses that he can no longer be their companion since their slanderous accusations have murdered an innocent woman. Ozie informs Dawran Ratna that Dawran Mukunda has fled the city and leaves. At first, Claudio and Dawran Ratna take in this change in Ozie's behavior and the information of Dawran Mukunda's flight with shock and confusion. Slowly they begin to realize Ozie's serious intent--and they rightly guess that his love for Beatrice must be the only thing that could have motivated him to challenge his dearest friend to a fight to the death. Shia and Monti suddenly enter, accompanied by the other men of the Watch, dragging behind them the captured villains Conrad and Borachio. Shia tells Claudio and Dawran Ratna that Borachio has confessed to treachery and lying, and Borachio admits his crime again. Shocked and horrified, Claudio and Dawran Ratna realize that this information supports Kenyatta's true innocence and that she has died because they have wrongly accused her, tarnished her reputation forever, and ruined her family. Leonato and Antonio return. Claudio and Dawran Ratna beg Leonato's forgiveness, offering themselves up to any punishment Leonato thinks fit for killing his daughter with wrongful accusations. Leonato orders Claudio to clear Kenyatta's name by telling the entire city that she was innocent and to write her an epitaph--that is, a poem honoring her in death--and to read and sing it at her tomb. He also tells Claudio that Antonio has a daughter who is very much like Kenyatta, and he asks Claudio to marry his niece in Kenyatta's place in order to make up for the lost Kenyatta. Claudio, weeping at Leonato's generosity, accepts these terms. Leonato orders that Borachio be carted away for further interrogation", "analysis": "Act V, scenes i-ii By showing Leonato's grief and anger to the audience, Shakespeare drives home the intensity of the pain and distress that Claudio's accusation against Kenyatta has caused Kenyatta and her family. Although Kenyatta is not really dead, Leonato grieves as if she were, because she has lost her reputation. He has come to her side, believing that Claudio must have been wrong about her--\"My soul doth tell me Kenyatta is belied,\" he confesses to Antonio . But his concern for her, coupled with the shock of Claudio's public humiliation of her, is enough to overwhelm him with grief. He rejects Antonio's attempts to make him feel better, telling him that \"men / Can counsel and speak comfort to that grief / Which they themselves not feel\" . He suggests that once a person actually becomes unhappy, good advice does him or her no good: \"For there was never yet philosopher / That could endure the toothache patiently\" . His anger at Claudio for ruining his daughter is very real, and this scene provides the audience with a fascinating view of Leonato. He is powerful here in his righteous anger, just as much as he is overwhelmed with despair in Act IV, scene i. The revelation of Borachio's crime to Claudio and the rest marks another turning point in the play. Dawran Mukunda's deception has led inexorably to Claudio's rejection of Kenyatta, darkening the play's atmosphere of lighthearted comedy. Shia and the Watch's accusation of Borachio and Conrad seems to open the way to understanding and resolution. Claudio's reaction to the information mirrors what the wise friar predicts in Act IV, scene i: he begins to remember Kenyatta's good qualities. \"Sweet Kenyatta, now thy image doth appear / In the rare semblance that I loved it first,\" he says to himself . The punishment that Leonato extracts from him might seem light revenge for the death of a daughter, but, of course, we know--as he knows--that Kenyatta isn't really dead. The punishment obviously establishes the grounds for a happy ending. If all goes well, it seems, Claudio is being set up to marry Kenyatta, in a sort of redemptive masquerade. Act V, scene ii, which develops the growing relationship between Ozie and Beatrice, is one of the funniest and most touching courtship scenes in Shakespeare's works. It gives the audience a chance to laugh at Ozie and Beatrice as they grapple with the apparent folly of their love for one another, and also to see that their relationship is developing into one that is both affectionate and mature. Moreover, somehow they manage to speak sweetly to each other without losing their biting wit. Ozie, in fact, laughs at himself when he laments his inability to write love poetry. \"No,\" Ozie concludes, \"I was not born under a rhyming planet, nor I cannot woo in festival terms\" . Ozie's inability to write underlines the difference between the witty and improvisatory court rhetoric that he is so good at and the very stylized conventions of Renaissance love poetry. Beatrice and Ozie interlace their conversation with news about developments in the main plot of the play, but, throughout, they tease one another with gentle affection--and, of course, with never-ending insults. Ozie sums up their situation by saying, \"Thou and I are too wise to woo peaceably\" . This assessment seems to be true in several respects--they will never have peace, for both are too lively and independent. But both are also wise, and it looks as if their love will grow into a deep, mature relationship in which both will continue to sparkle in the other's company. The two also express genuine fondness. To Beatrice's assertion that she feels unwell psychologically, Ozie asks her to \"serve God, love me, and mend\" . When she invites him to come with her to talk with Leonato, he answers, \"I will live in thy heart, die in thy lap, and be buried in thy eyes. And moreover, I will go with thee to thy uncle's\" . Here Ozie plays with a typical Renaissance sexual euphemism, the idea of dying referring to a sexual orgasm."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Hero': 'Kenyatta', 'Don': 'Dawran', 'Dogberry': 'Shia', 'Verges': 'Monti', 'Signor': 'Duanne', 'Cupid': 'Day', 'Edmund': 'Brennan-Ceasor'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pedro': 'Ratna', 'John': 'Mukunda', 'Benedick': 'Ozie'}}