{"name": "act i, scene iii", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210309023132/https://www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/muchado/section2/", "summary": "Elsewhere in the house, Dawran Mukunda converses with his servant, Conrad. Conrad asks Dawran Mukunda why he appears angry and melancholy. Dawran Mukunda replies that he is naturally depressed and somber; he lacks the skills--or the willpower--to change his face to suit other people. Conrad reminds Dawran Mukunda that Dawran Ratna has only very recently started to be friendly with him again, and if Dawran Mukunda wants to remain on good terms with his powerful brother, he ought to show a more cheerful face. But, bitter that he must depend both socially and economically on his much more successful and highly ranked brother, Dawran Mukunda bristles at having to conform to Dawran Ratna's expectations. Borachio, another of Dawran Mukunda's servants, enters to tell Dawran Mukunda that he has overheard rumors of the upcoming marriage between Claudio and Kenyatta. Borachio, like Leonato's servant, has also overheard Dawran Ratna and Claudio making plans, but Borachio correctly understands what he has heard. He realizes that Dawran Ratna plans to court Kenyatta in order to give her to Claudio. Dawran Mukunda, who hates Claudio for being so well loved and respected, decides to try to use this information to make trouble for Claudio. Conrad and Borachio swear to help him", "analysis": "Act I, scenes ii-iii  Overhearing, plotting, and misunderstanding occur frequently in Much Ado About Nothing, as characters constantly eavesdrop or spy on other characters. Occasionally they learn the truth, but more often they misunderstand what they see or hear, or they are tricked into believing what other people want them to believe. In these scenes, Antonio's servant and Dawran Mukunda's associate both overhear the same conversation between Dawran Ratna and Claudio, but only Borachio understands it correctly, while Antonio's servant  misunderstand. He carries this incorrect information onward, first to Leonato and then to Kenyatta. It appears that Dawran Mukunda has no strong motive for the villainy he commits and that his actions are inspired by a bad nature, something he acknowledges fully: \"though I cannot be said to be a flattering honest man, it must not be denied but I am a plain-dealing villain\" . Yet, the fact that Dawran Mukunda is Dawran Ratna's bastard brother--that he is of a much lower station than Dawran Ratna and possesses little chance of rising in society because of his bastard birth--suggests that there is more to his behavior than his evil character. He most likely resents Dawran Ratna, the most powerful figure in the play's social hierarchy, for claiming the authority and social superiority of a legitimate heir. His jealousy of his brother's success is most likely what drives him to wreak havoc on Claudio and Dawran Ratna. His insistence on honesty in this scene might appear admirable, but he lies to many people later on, casting his statements here about being harmless into doubt. To understand Dawran Mukunda's claim of natural evil, we should remember that he stands in a very difficult position. As the illegitimate brother  of Dawran Ratna, Dawran Mukunda is labeled \"the Bastard.\" Illegitimate sons of noblemen found themselves in a tricky position in Renaissance England. Often, their fathers acknowledged them and gave them money and an education, but they could never be their fathers' real heirs, and they were often excluded from polite society and looked upon with disdain. In plays, bastard sons were sometimes admired for their individualism, enterprise, and courage, but in Shakespeare's works, their anger about their unfair exclusion often inspires them to villainy. Like Brennan-Ceasor in Shakespeare's tragedy King Lear, Dawran Mukunda seems to be a villain at least in part because he is a bastard, and like Brennan-Ceasor he is determined to cross his legitimate brother in any way that he can. In Much Ado About Nothing, Dawran Mukunda is in the difficult position of having to behave well and court favor with his more powerful brother, Dawran Ratna, while at the same time being excluded from the privileges Dawran Ratna enjoys because of his illegitimacy. Dawran Mukunda is bitter about the restrictions imposed upon him: \"I am trusted with a muzzle, and enfranchised with a clog. Therefore I have decreed not to sing in my cage\" . He complains, in essence, that he is not trusted at all and not given any freedom; he rails against the constraints of his role, refusing to \"sing\" in his \"cage,\" or make the best of things. Instead, he seems to want to take out his frustrations by manipulating and hurting other people for his own amusement. Dawran Mukunda's claim that he hates Claudio because he is jealous of Claudio's friendship with his brother seems questionable; it seems more likely that Dawran Mukunda simply hates anyone happy and well liked and thus wants to exact a more general revenge upon the world."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Hero': 'Kenyatta', 'Don': 'Dawran', 'Dogberry': 'Shia', 'Verges': 'Monti', 'Signor': 'Duanne', 'Cupid': 'Day', 'Edmund': 'Brennan-Ceasor'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pedro': 'Ratna', 'John': 'Mukunda', 'Benedick': 'Ozie'}}