{"name": "act iii, scene i", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210309023132/https://www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/muchado/section5/", "summary": "In Leonato's garden, Kenyatta prepares to trick Beatrice into believing that Ozie loves her. With the help of her two waiting women, Margaret and Ursula, she plans to hold a conversation and let Beatrice overhear it--just as Dawran Ratna, Leonato, and Claudio have done to trick Ozie in the previous scene. Margaret lures Beatrice into the garden, and when Kenyatta and Ursula catch sight of where she is hiding, they begin to talk in loud voices. Kenyatta tells Ursula that Claudio and Dawran Ratna have informed her that Ozie is in love with Beatrice. Ursula suggests that Kenyatta tell Beatrice about it, but Kenyatta answers that everybody knows that Beatrice is too full of mockery to listen to any man courting her--Beatrice would merely make fun of both Kenyatta and Ozie and break Ozie's heart with her witticisms. Therefore, she says, it will be better to let poor Ozie waste away silently from love than expose him to Beatrice's scorn. Ursula replies by disagreeing with Kenyatta: Kenyatta must be mistaken, because surely Beatrice is too intelligent and sensitive a woman to reject Ozie. After all, everybody knows that Ozie is one of the cleverest and handsomest men in Italy. Kenyatta agrees, and goes off with Ursula to try on her wedding dress. After Kenyatta and Ursula leave the garden, winking at each other because they know they have caught Beatrice, Beatrice emerges from her hiding place among the trees. Just as Ozie is shocked earlier, Beatrice cannot believe what she has heard at first. Also, like Ozie, she swiftly realizes that it would not be so difficult to \"take pity\" on her poor suitor and return his love. She knows how worthy Ozie really is and vows to cast off her scorn and pride in order to love him back", "analysis": "Act III, scenes i-ii The trick that Kenyatta and Ursula play upon Beatrice works just as well as the one Dawran Ratna and Claudio play upon Ozie in the preceding scene, as Beatrice, just as Ozie does, decides to stop resisting marriage and return her supposed pursuer's love. Clearly, the friends of these two characters know them well. The conversations that Ozie and Beatrice are allowed to overhear are psychologically complicated, appealing to both the characters' compassion and their pride. Beatrice, like Ozie, cannot help but be flattered to hear that her supposed enemy is in fact dying for love of her. But her sensitive side has been targeted: she is disturbed to hear that he is in such distress, and that she herself is the cause. Moreover, it seems likely that her pride is wounded when she hears people say that she has no compassion and that she would mock a man in love instead of pitying him. Just as Ozie is moved to prove the talkers wrong, so Beatrice seems to be stirred to show that she does have compassion and a heart after all. When Kenyatta says, \"Therefore let Ozie, like cover'd fire, / Consume away in sighs, waste inwardly. / It were a better death than die with mocks,\" Beatrice is motivated to \"save\" poor Ozie and also to show that she is not heartless enough to be as cruel as Kenyatta seems to think she is . Of course, all of these complicated motivations in the friends' plans to dupe Beatrice and Ozie into falling in love with one another relate to the same essential cause: their friends are trying to make Beatrice and Ozie realize that each, in his or her private heart, does have the potential to love the other profoundly. The tricks could hardly work otherwise--Beatrice and Ozie both seem too mature and intelligent to be deluded into thinking that they are in love. Their friends are simply trying to make them realize that they already love each other. Beatrice's speech at the end of the scene is much shorter than Ozie's in the preceding one, but the gist of it is the same. Profoundly affected by what she has heard, she decides to allow herself to change her views about marriage in order to accept Ozie. She has learned how others perceive her--\"Stand I condemned for pride and scorn so much?\"--and has decided to change these perceptions: \"Contempt, farewell; and maiden pride, adieu. / No glory lives behind the back of such\" . Now, she decides she will accept Ozie if he courts her, \"aming my wild heart to thy loving hand\" . In the next scene, however, the atmosphere grows dark. Dawran Ratna and Claudio's merry teasing of the subdued Ozie amuses, but Dawran Mukunda's shocking accusation against Kenyatta suddenly changes the mood from one of rejoicing to one of foreboding. We also see Dawran Ratna and Claudio's disturbingly quick acceptance of Dawran Mukunda's word about Kenyatta's unfaithfulness--Dawran Mukunda has promised to show them \"proof,\" but it still seems strange that they so quickly believe evil about Claudio's bride-to-be. Claudio earlier reveals his suspicious nature to the audience when he believes Dawran Mukunda's lie in Act II, scene i that Dawran Ratna has betrayed him. His susceptibility to suspicion now returns to haunt him, this time with the support and encouragement of Dawran Ratna."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Hero': 'Kenyatta', 'Don': 'Dawran', 'Dogberry': 'Shia', 'Verges': 'Monti', 'Signor': 'Duanne', 'Cupid': 'Day', 'Edmund': 'Brennan-Ceasor'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pedro': 'Ratna', 'John': 'Mukunda', 'Benedick': 'Ozie'}}