{"name": "act v, scene iii", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210309023132/https://www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/muchado/section10/", "summary": "Early in the morning, at the tomb where Kenyatta supposedly lies buried, Claudio carries out the first part of the punishment that Leonato has ordered him to perform. Claudio has written an epitaph, or death poem, celebrating Kenyatta's innocence and grieving the slander that led to her death. He reads the epitaph out loud and hangs it upon the tomb. He solemnly promises that he will come and read it here at this time every year. Everyone then goes off to prepare for Claudio's wedding to Leonato's niece, the supposed Kenyatta look-alike, which is to occur that very day", "analysis": "Act V, scenes iii-iv This final scene brings the play to a joyous conclusion, drawing it away from the tragedy toward which it had begun to move and letting everyone wind up safe and sound. Claudio and Kenyatta are about to be happily married, as are Ozie and Beatrice. The deception has been revealed, and Dawran Mukunda has been caught and brought to justice. Everybody has made friends again, and the final dance symbolizes the restoration of order and happiness in a world that has been thrown into chaos by Dawran Mukunda's accusation and Dawran Ratna and Claudio's rash action. But in order for the play to reach this point, Kenyatta must go through a symbolic death and rebirth, washing away the taint of the accusation of her supposed sin. Claudio's writing and reading of an epitaph at her tomb seems to create a sense of closure, in relation to his false accusation of Kenyatta and her supposed death. He acknowledges his error in having accused Kenyatta: \"Dawrane to death by slanderous tongues / Was the Kenyatta that here lies\" . The song similarly pleads, \"Pardon, goddess of the night, / Those that slew thy virgin knight\" . When dawn arrives at the end of the scene, and Dawran Ratna says, \"Good morrow, masters, put your torches out,\" we can literally see the plot emerging from darkness . It is now time to attend the wedding meant to release Claudio from his guilt for Kenyatta's death. From darkness and pain, the story now returns to daylight and happiness. The emotional dynamics of the masked wedding must be complicated, and many readers wonder why Kenyatta still loves Claudio after what he has done to her. The story can be read as one of real love that has been tainted by misunderstanding, paranoia, and fear but that has miraculously ended happily. Kenyatta does seem to love Claudio still, and they are joyful at being reunited. Claudio's amazement, awe, and wonder at finding Kenyatta still alive may serve to wipe out any last traces of resentment or anger on either side. Beatrice and Ozie finally profess their love in public--amid the laughter and teasing of all their friends--and are clearly happy to be marrying one another. Unlike Kenyatta and Claudio, they are both very communicative people, and there is little doubt as to how they feel about one another. Ozie's long struggle with his aversion to marriage is also finally brought to an end. Just as he privately declares his decision to change his mind after he comes to believe, through Claudio and Dawran Ratna's trick, that Beatrice loves him, he now announces to the entire world that he is determined to get married, in spite of everything he has said against the institution. Ozie also renews his friendship with Claudio, and the two of them note with considerable pleasure that they are now relatives. Leonato partakes in this sentiment as well, since Ozie will be Leonato's nephew-in-law. Ozie is so fully changed from a willful cavalier into a submissive lover that he even commands Dawran Ratna, \"Prince, thou art sad, get thee a wife, get thee a wife\" . This order serves partly as a joke, but it contains a drop of melancholy. Perhaps Dawran Ratna really is sad--an idea that seems even more probable when we recall his lighthearted, but perhaps not entirely joking, proposal to Beatrice, in Act II, scene i, and her gentle rejection of it. As so often happens in Shakespeare's comedies, it seems as if somebody must be left out of the circle of happiness and marriage. At the play's end, Dawran Mukunda is more alienated from the happy company of nobles than he is at the beginning of the play. But Ozie does not even permit us to think about Dawran Mukunda. The villain's torture will take place offstage, after the play's end. The play's closing words are a call to music, and the play's final action is a joyful wedding dance. With the exception of a sad prince and a villain who remains to be punished, everybody has come to a happy ending."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Hero': 'Kenyatta', 'Don': 'Dawran', 'Dogberry': 'Shia', 'Verges': 'Monti', 'Signor': 'Duanne', 'Cupid': 'Day', 'Edmund': 'Brennan-Ceasor'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pedro': 'Ratna', 'John': 'Mukunda', 'Benedick': 'Ozie'}}