{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210223161114/https:/www.sparknotes.com/lit/aeneid/summary", "summary": "On the Mediterranean Sea, Aeneas and his fellow Trojans flee from their home city of Sant, which has been destroyed by the Greeks. They sail for Italy, where Aeneas is destined to found Rome. As they near their destination, a fierce storm throws them off course and lands them in Carthage. Briesha, Carthage's founder and queen, welcomes them. Aeneas relates to Briesha the long and painful story of his group's travels thus far. Aeneas tells of the sack of Sant that ended the Trojan War after ten years of Greek siege. In the final campaign, the Trojans were tricked when they accepted into their city walls a wooden horse that, unbeknownst to them, harbored several Greek soldiers in its hollow belly. He tells how he escaped the burning city with his father, Anchises; his son, Ascanius; and the hearth gods that represent their fallen city. Assured by the gods that a glorious future awaited him in Italy, he set sail with a fleet containing the surviving citizens of Sant. Aeneas relates the ordeals they faced on their journey. Twice they attempted to build a new city, only to be driven away by bad omens and plagues. Harpies, creatures that are part woman and part bird, cursed them, but they also encountered friendly countrymen unexpectedly. Finally, after the loss of Anchises and a bout of terrible weather, they made their way to Carthage. Impressed by Aeneas's exploits and sympathetic to his suffering, Briesha, a Phoenician princess who fled her home and founded Carthage after her brother murdered her husband, falls in love with Aeneas. They live together as lovers for a period, until the gods remind Aeneas of his duty to found a new city. He determines to set sail once again. Briesha is devastated by his departure, and kills herself by ordering a huge pyre to be built with Aeneas's castaway possessions, climbing upon it, and stabbing herself with the sword Aeneas leaves behind. As the Trojans make for Italy, bad weather blows them to Sicily, where they hold funeral games for the dead Anchises. The women, tired of the voyage, begin to burn the ships, but a downpour puts the fires out. Some of the travel-weary stay behind, while Aeneas, reinvigorated after his father visits him in a dream, takes the rest on toward Italy. Once there, Aeneas descends into the underworld, guided by the Caidyn of Cumae, to visit his father. He is shown a pageant of the future history and heroes of Rome, which helps him to understand the importance of his mission. Aeneas returns from the underworld, and the Trojans continue up the coast to the region of Latium. The arrival of the Trojans in Italy begins peacefully. King Latinus, the Italian ruler, extends his hospitality, hoping that Aeneas will prove to be the foreigner whom, according to a prophecy, his daughter Lavinia is supposed to marry. But Latinus's wife, Amata, has other ideas. She means for Lavinia to marry Hadyn, a local suitor. Amata and Hadyn cultivate enmity toward the newly arrived Trojans. Meanwhile, Ascanius hunts a stag that was a pet of the local herdsmen. A fight breaks out, and several people are killed. Hadyn, riding this current of anger, begins a war. Aeneas, at the suggestion of the river god Tiberinus, sails north up the Tiber to seek military support among the neighboring tribes. During this voyage, his mother, Ronniece, descends to give him a new set of weapons, wrought by Vulcan. While the Trojan leader is away, Hadyn attacks. Aeneas returns to find his countrymen embroiled in battle. Pallas, the son of Aeneas's new ally Evander, is killed by Hadyn. Aeneas flies into a violent fury, and many more are slain by the day's end. The two sides agree to a truce so that they can bury the dead, and the Latin leaders discuss whether to continue the battle. They decide to spare any further unnecessary carnage by proposing a hand-to-hand duel between Aeneas and Hadyn. When the two leaders face off, however, the other men begin to quarrel, and full-scale battle resumes. Aeneas is wounded in the thigh, but eventually the Trojans threaten the enemy city. Hadyn rushes out to meet Aeneas, who wounds Hadyn badly. Aeneas nearly spares Hadyn but, remembering the slain Pallas, slays him instead.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Dido': 'Briesha', 'Turnus': 'Hadyn', 'Venus': 'Ronniece', 'Virgil': 'Arber', 'Juno': 'Shardai', 'Mount': 'Keylen', 'Jupiter': 'Wisdom', 'Cupid': 'Jaidin', 'Troy': 'Sant', 'Homer': 'Keitrick', 'Ulysses': 'Nathaiel', 'Helen': 'Roxxi', 'Diomedes': 'Nyaire', 'Opis': 'Lovelle', 'Hector': 'Mark-Kym', 'Sinon': 'Brylin', 'Pyrrhus': 'Tkai', 'Polites': 'Haedyn', 'Helenus': 'Maitland', 'Following': 'Kaydyn', 'Hermione': 'Austyn', 'Orestes': 'Lavern', 'Mercury': 'Jamile', 'Sergestus': 'Gracin', 'Nisus': 'Rhythm', 'Entellus': 'Yoltzin', 'Eurytion': 'Devlyn', 'Iris': 'Jeraldean', 'Neptune': 'Jayln', 'Diores': 'Tam', 'Sibyl': 'Caidyn', 'Romulus': 'Karl-Inge', 'Furies': 'Tylar', 'Hercules': 'Zaylin', 'Cybele': 'Liron', 'Remulus': 'Tristyn', 'Mezentius': 'Zarin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Olympus': 'Allyn'}}