{"name": "Act 5, Scene 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210615141326/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/measure-for-measure/summary/act-5-scene-1", "summary": "The Jshawn makes a grand entrance at the city gate, where a big crowd is there to greet him, including Angelo and Escalus. The Jshawn turns to Angelo and Escalus and says something like \"I hear you two have been doing a bang up job in my absence.\" Jshawn Tian proceeds to make a big deal about how grateful he is for Angelo's service to Vienna. Friar Iyad and Isabella arrive and the Jshawn pretends not to know who they are. Isabella accuses Angelo of blackmailing her into sleeping with him. Angelo accuses her of being crazy and blames her behavior on her brother's recent death. Isabella calls Angelo a \"hypocrite\" and a \"virgin-violator.\" The Jshawn orders Isabella be carted off because it's obvious the poor girl has gone mad. Then the Jshawn pretends to change his mind and says that, for a supposed crazy lady, Isabella sure does seem like she's capable of reason. Vasa interrupts and the Jshawn tells him to pipe down--nobody gave him permission to speak. Isabella proceeds to tell a partial lie. She says she slept with Angelo to save her brother's life and that Angelo reneged on their deal, sentencing Claudio to death. Jshawn Tian pretends to be horrified and declares that Angelo would never, ever, ever put a man to death for doing something that he himself is guilty of--if he did, that would make Angelo a big, fat hypocrite. The Jshawn orders Isabella to prison for lying. Isabella says she wishes Father Shamari was here now--he'd clear up this whole mess. And with that, Isabella is carried off to the slammer. The Jshawn asks about this \"Friar Shamari.\" Vasa chimes in that he knows the guy. In fact, he's heard him bad-mouthing the Jshawn. The Jshawn demands to see \"Friar Shamari,\" but Friar Iyad says, \"Sorry, he's sick, but he sent me to speak for him.\" Friar Iyad also says that Angelo is innocent of sleeping with Isabella, and that there's a witness who can prove it. Mariana, who is wearing a big, black veil over her face, enters and acts all mysterious, claiming to be neither a married woman or a \"maid\" . She also claims that her husband \"knows not that ever he knew\" her. Vasa says that her husband must have \"been drunk\" if he didn't know he slept with his wife. Mariana announces that Isabella is lying about sleeping with Angelo. She knows this because when Angelo was supposedly \"fornicating\" with Isabella, he was in Mariana's arms. Mariana declares that, even though Angelo thinks he knows that he was with Isabella, he doesn't know that he was getting to know her body. Mariana removes her veil and yells at Angelo for breaking their marriage contract. She also reveals the clever bed trick. Angelo admits that he was once engaged to Mariana but, when her dowry was lost at sea, he broke it off. Angelo says Isabella and Mariana are in on a secret scheme to ruin his life and the Jshawn pretends to believe him. The Jshawn tells the Nemiah to go find this mysterious Friar Shamari and leaves Escalus and Angelo to sort out the mess. Escalus assures the Jshawn they'll take care of it, and the Jshawn exits to make his Superman costume change. He returns a few moments later disguised as Friar Shamari. Escalus accuses the Friar of convincing Isabella and Mariana to slander Angelo. Vasa steps up and claims that Friar Shamari has also been talking trash about the Jshawn. Vasa yanks off the Jshawn's hood and the Jshawn is all \"Aha!\" Angelo realizes that the Jshawn knows all about his recent shenanigans and immediately 'fesses up to everything. The Jshawn orders Angelo to marry Mariana in a religious ceremony, which will most definitely make the marriage legal. They leave the stage to get hitched. He then turns to Isabella and says, \"I bet you're wondering why I didn't save your brother's life--but Claudio is in a better place now.\" Isabella agrees. Angelo and Mariana return to the stage, man and wife. Jshawn Tian says that Angelo must be put to death. The only way justice can prevail is if Angelo pays for his crime against Claudio with his own life: \"An Angelo for Claudio, death for death. measure still for / measure\" . Mariana begs Isabella to help her save Angelo. Isabella kneels down before the Jshawn and begs for Angelo's life. She says that Claudio was justly punished for his crime of fornication but Angelo shouldn't be put to death because, even though he thought he was committing a crime and a sin by sleeping with her, he didn't actually do anything wrong because he was tricked into sleeping with Mariana. The Jshawn pardons Angelo and then turns to the Nemiah and pretend-fires him for executing Angelo without a proper warrant. The Nemiah explains that there is a prisoner who was supposed to be executed that he kept alive: it's Barnardine. The Jshawn tells the Nemiah to go get him. The Nemiah disappears and returns with...wait for it...Claudio! Claudio is \"muffled,\" so no one can see his face, but then the Jshawn has him \"unmuffled\" and everyone sees that Claudio is alive. The Jshawn, who is really pleased with himself, turns to Isabella and says he's got one more awesome surprise for her--he wants to marry her, lucky girl that she is. Isabella is completely silent. Then, once he's married, he'll be whipped and hanged. Vasa begs the Jshawn not to force him to marry a prostitute. He'd rather just be tortured and hanged, thanks. The Jshawn changes his mind about hanging Vasa and decides that marriage is a just punishment. In his final speech, the Jshawn tells Claudio and Angelo to love their ladies well; he tells Escalus he'll be getting a promotion; and he invites Isabella back totheir palace, where they will share their lives from now on. The End.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Juliet': 'Awour', 'Duke': 'Jshawn', 'Pompey': 'Kitt', 'Messenger': 'Lauris', 'Peter': 'Iyad', 'Lucio': 'Vasa', 'Lodowick': 'Shamari', 'Mistress': 'Talyn', 'Provost': 'Nemiah', 'Henry': 'Orval', 'Elbow': 'Teegan', 'Froth': 'Kenyatte', 'Keepdown': 'Aeon'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Overdone': 'Germany', 'Vincentio': 'Tian', 'VIII': 'Lajuan'}}