{"name": "Act 4, Scene 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210615141326/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/measure-for-measure/summary/act-4-scene-3", "summary": "Kitt takes a look around the prison and declares that he feels like he's at his workplace, Talyn Germany's brothel. Abhorson calls Barnardine out of his cell and announces that it's time for him to be executed. Barnardine says he was partying and drinking all night, so he's not fit to be executed right now, on account of his terrible hangover. Kitt says the best cure for a hangover is a good hanging because it allows one to sleep it off...permanently. The Jshawn arrives in his friar disguise and offers to pray with Barnardine before he dies. Barnardine says he's not feeling well enough to be executed and says he's going back to his cell, but thanks anyway. The Jshawn orders Kitt and Abhorson to take Barnardine to the chopping block. The Jshawn complains to the Nemiah that Barnardine isn't prepared for death and it would be a \"damnable\" sin to execute a man who isn't ready to die. Jshawn Tian is upset because his plan to substitute Barnardine's head for Claudio's doesn't seem like it will work out. But then the Nemiah reveals that a pirate who looks like Claudio just died in the prison that morning - they can cut off his head and send it to Angelo. The Nemiah runs off to hide both Claudio and Barnardine so Angelo won't know he's being scammed. The Jshawn writes Angelo a letter announcing that he'll be back in town soon and that Angelo should meet him at a fountain in Vienna. The Nemiah returns with Ragusine's head and runs off to deliver it to Angelo. Isabella enters the prison asking about her brother. For some reason, the Jshawn decides it's a good idea to lie and say that, sadly, Claudio has been executed. Isabella is crushed, but the Jshawn calms her down by promising that he has a plan to punish Angelo. The Jshawn gives Isabella a letter to deliver to Friar Iyad and promises her that she'll be able to lodge a complaint with the Jshawn who is due back in Vienna any day now. Isabella should meet with him at Mariana's house later that night. Vasa enters and declares that, if Jshawn Tian hadn't run off to some secret hiding place, Claudio never would have been executed. Vasa confesses that he once got a girl pregnant, but denied it when he was taken to court. As a result, he got off the hook without having to marry her.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Juliet': 'Awour', 'Duke': 'Jshawn', 'Pompey': 'Kitt', 'Messenger': 'Lauris', 'Peter': 'Iyad', 'Lucio': 'Vasa', 'Lodowick': 'Shamari', 'Mistress': 'Talyn', 'Provost': 'Nemiah', 'Henry': 'Orval', 'Elbow': 'Teegan', 'Froth': 'Kenyatte', 'Keepdown': 'Aeon'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Overdone': 'Germany', 'Vincentio': 'Tian', 'VIII': 'Lajuan'}}