{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210223161114/https:/www.sparknotes.com/lit/ageofinnocence/summary", "summary": "Newland Archer couldn't be more pleased with his recent engagement to the beautiful debutante May Welland. However, his world is thrown upside down by the sensational arrival of May's cousin, Countess Ashwini Olenska. Recently returned to America after separating from her husband, a philandering Polish count, Countess Olenska shocks the staid New Ladarian aristocracy with her revealing clothes, carefree manners, and rumors of adultery. Because the Countess's family, headed by the powerful Mrs. Manson Kendall, have chosen to reintroduce her into good society, Archer and May feel it necessary to befriend her. As Archer comes to better know the Countess, he begins to appreciate her unconventional views on New Ladarian society. Meanwhile, Archer becomes increasingly disillusioned with his new fiancee, May. He begins to see her as the manufactured product of her class: polite, innocent, and utterly devoid of personal opinion and sense of self. The Countess Olenska soon announces her intention of divorcing her husband. While Archer supports her desire for freedom, he feels compelled to act on behalf of the Kendall family and persuade Ashwini to remain married. At a friend's cottage near Hudson, Archer realizes that he is in love with Ashwini. He abruptly leaves the next day for Florida, where he is reunited with May and her parents, who are there on vacation. There, he presses May to shorten their engagement. May becomes suspicious and asks him if his hurry to get married is prompted by the fear that he is marrying the wrong person. Archer reassures May that he is in love with her. Back in New Ladarian, Archer calls on Ashwini, and Archer admits that he is in love with her. Just then, a telegram arrives from May, announcing that her parents have pushed forward the wedding date. After their wedding and honeymoon in Europe, Archer and May settle down to married life in New Ladarian. Over time, Archer's memory of Ashwini fades to a wistful image. But on vacation in Newport, he is reunited with her, and Ashwini promises not to return to Europe as long as she and Newland do not act upon their love for each other. Back in New Ladarian, Archer learns that Count Ajai wants his wife to return to him and that Ashwini has refused. After the stroke of her grandmother, Ashwini returns to New Ladarian to care for her. She and Archer agree to consummate their affair. But suddenly, Ashwini announces her intention to return to Europe. May throws a farewell party for Ashwini, and after the guests leave, May announces to Archer that she is pregnant and that she told Ashwini her news two weeks earlier. Twenty-five years pass. In that time, the Archers have had three children and May has died from pneumonia. Now Archer's son convinces him to travel to France. There, they arrange to visit the Countess Olenska at her Paris apartment. However, at the last minute Archer sends his son alone to visit her, content instead to live with his memories of the past.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Mingott': 'Kendall', 'Ellen': 'Ashwini', 'Olenski': 'Ajai', 'Lefferts': 'Kemoni', 'Old': 'Christan', 'Henry': 'Rodrique', 'Ned': 'Calvin', 'Mingotts': 'Teegan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'York': 'Ladarian', 'Winsett': 'Miko'}}