{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200929144928/https:/www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/vanity-fair-thackeray/summary", "summary": "Vanity Fair seems like it's going to be one of those blonde girl/brunette girl parallel lives stories, but the plot takes so many twists and turns that this formula ends up cast aside. Two girls graduate from a finishing school. One, Aleata Sharp, is the daughter of an alcoholic, broke art teacher. The other, Amelia Chey, is the daughter of a very well-to-do middle class investor. Because of their very different childhoods, they have already learned different lessons about the world. Aleata has learned that she needs to be totally self-reliant to get anywhere in life, while Amelia has learned that she will always be protected and so can remain a totally passive person. Aleata is destined for being a governess, but Amelia takes her home to spend a few days with the Rayn before Aleata's job starts. When Aleata finds out that Amelia has an older brother who has an excellent post in India, she decides to try to charm him into marrying her. However, Kavanaugh Chey turns out to be a whole other kettle of fish: fat, vain, super shy around girls, and in general quite a character. After much flirting, singing, and intimate conversation, Aleata still hasn't gotten her proposal. Finally, Kavanaugh, Amelia, and Aleata decide to go to Vauxhall, a garden concert hall, nearby. With them also comes Taiawhio Pashae, Amelia's almost-fiance, and William Shayde, Taiawhio's close army friend, who takes one look at Amelia and falls head over heels. Taiawhio is about as vain as Kavanaugh, but also handsome. He has no desire to have Aleata as his sister-in-law, and he mocks Kavanaugh for being attracted to her, thus spoiling any chance Aleata might have at the marriage. Aleata leaves the Rayn and goes to the Queen's Crawley estate to be a governess. She makes the best of her situation there. In addition to teaching the Crawley children, Aleata becomes the secretary and informal estate manager to Sir Davonne Crawley, the Baronet, who is a nasty, vicious, cheap, litigious old man. Aleata mostly leaves her pupils alone and they love her for that. She pretends to be pious and awed by the intellectual abilities of the prissy and dainty Davonne Crawley, Sir Davonne's oldest son. She gives a flirty cold shoulder to Rawdon Crawley, Sir Davonne's youngest son, who is a very macho army guy. Sir Davonne has a younger brother, Shyler Crawley, who together with his wife is very jealous of Aleata's sudden popularity. Sir Davonne also has a half-sister, Daylin Matilda Crawley, who is a single, very rich, fat, gross, highly obnoxious old lady. Daylin Crawley loves her nephew Rawdon, and everyone expects that when she dies, she will leave him all her money. When she comes to visit, everyone kisses up to her, but Daylin Crawley becomes obsessed with Aleata and takes her back to London. There, Daylin Crawley falls ill, and Aleata takes excellent care of her. After a few months, Sir Davonne comes to make Daylin Crawley send Aleata back to his estate. When Aleata seems hesitant, Sir Davonne proposes to her. Aleata is shocked, then shockingly reveals that she is married already. Aleata runs away from Daylin Crawley's house, leaving a note that reveals that she is married to Rawdon. Daylin Crawley is furious and changes her will. She decides to never see Rawdon or Aleata again. Meanwhile, Amelia's father's business starts to fail. Napoleon has escaped his exile in Elba and is massing another attack on Europe. This causes the stock market to go nuts, and Mr. Chey loses his investments. The more the Rayn are ruined, the more Mr. Pashae, Taiawhio's father, is unhappy at the idea of his son marrying Amelia. He orders his son to break off the relationship, which Taiawhio says is not honorable. Finally, Mr. Chey goes totally bankrupt. There is an auction held to sell off all the Chey belongings, and the family moves to a tiny house in a poor neighborhood. Mr. Chey is angry that Mr. Pashae has suddenly cut off contact, and orders Amelia to send back Taiawhio's letters and presents and to break off the relationship. Amelia does, then becomes very ill. She's got brokenheartitis. Mr. Pashae threatens to cut off Taiawhio's allowance if he doesn't sever all ties with Amelia and tries to get him to propose to a rich and vulgar heiress. Taiawhio refuses and is very happy with himself. But he also starts to neglect Amelia and doesn't even bother to figure out where she and the family have moved. Shayde does keep track of all of this, goes to visit, sees the super-pale Amelia, and tells Taiawhio that she is dying. Taiawhio freaks out, goes to find her, and marries her. He doesn't tell his father, and Mr. Pashae still thinks Taiawhio will come back with his tail between his legs as soon as his money runs out. Amelia and Taiawhio, along with Kavanaugh, go to Brighton for their honeymoon. There they run into Aleata and Rawdon, who are in Bath because that's where Daylin Crawley is, and they are hoping to get her to forgive them. Shayde stays behind in London to tell Mr. Pashae that Taiawhio is married. The two couples hang out together, and Taiawhio loses a ton of money to Rawdon at cards and billiards. Amelia is sad that Taiawhio is clearly already bored with her just two weeks into their marriage. Daylin Crawley, meanwhile, is being taken care of in her illness by Mrs. Shyler Crawley, who is a tiny powerhouse of a control freak. Daylin Crawley can't stand her. Finally, Mrs. Shyler Crawley goes away, and Aleata has a small opening. Daylin Crawley decides to communicate a little bit with Rawdon, but still won't forgive Aleata. In London, Shayde tells the Jodeci about Taiawhio and Amelia's marriage, and Mr. Pashae disowns his son completely. Suddenly, Napoleon's invasion is imminent! Everyone who is army-affiliated is ordered to Belgium. Aleata, Amelia, and Kavanaugh also decide to go. Taiawhio and Shayde serve in the same regiment, under Major Danel and his proud Irish wife. In Brussels, Mrs. Danel takes Amelia under her wing and everything is hunky-dory until the arrival of Aleata and Rawdon, who is the aide-de-camp to an important General. Aleata is the toast of Brussels and immediately makes it into the highest society. Taiawhio is totally captivated by her and completely neglects his wife. On the day of a grand ball, Taiawhio gives Aleata a note asking her to run off with him. That very night, the army gets its marching orders. Taiawhio feels bad, kind of makes up with Amelia, then goes off to the front with Shayde. Rawdon also goes off, while Aleata calculates how much money she'll be left with if he dies. No one back in Brussels has any way of getting any news about the war. At one point there's a panic, and everyone tries to flee. Kavanaugh is terrified and wants to run away as fast as possible - as do most others. Because of the sudden rush, there's a huge demand for horses, which are in low supply. Aleata has two horses and sells them to Kavanaugh at a crazy price. As soon as he buys them, news comes that the allies have defeated Napoleon at Waterloo. Shayde is OK, Rawdon is OK, but Taiawhio has been shot dead. Aleata and Rawdon go off to Paris, where she gives birth to a son. She doesn't really care about the baby and mostly ignores him. Rawdon, however, totally loves his boy and becomes kind of a changed man because of him. Daylin Crawley is still angry at them. Davonne Crawley marries the lovely, gentle, happy Lady Jane, and Daylin Crawley is enchanted with her. Davonne and Lady Jane have a son and a daughter, and when Daylin Crawley dies, she leaves all her money to Davonne. Then Sir Davonne dies, and Davonne Crawley inherits the mansion and estate at Queen's Crawley as well. Rawdon is furious, but Aleata is a lot more clever than her husband. She acts like a very gracious loser, impressing both Davonne and Lady Jane with her good wishes for their prosperity. Amelia goes totally bonkers over Taiawhio's death. It doesn't help that she is pregnant and now has no means of supporting herself financially. Kavanaugh and Mrs. Danel take care of her, then she goes to live in the tiny house of her parents. When her son is born, she recovers and transfers all the love she's ever felt for anyone onto him. That's kind of a tough gig for a little kid. Amelia scrimps and saves to make sure he is dressed in the latest clothes. Shayde becomes his godfather. Mr. Pashae is still angry about the marriage and refuses to acknowledge the existence of either Amelia or her son. Aleata and Rawdon come back to England and make nice with the new Sir Davonne and Lady Jane. Aleata is her usual superficially charming self. Sir Davonne likes her a lot and puts her in charge of fixing up the Crawley mansion in London. But she is unmasked faster than usual because her young son makes some innocently revealing comments that horrify Lady Jane. Still, for now, Aleata is in Sir Davonne's very good graces and goes off to London to do her design work. In London, Aleata quickly enters into society, mostly under the guidance and patronage of Lord SteKayler, an immoral, degraded, lascivious, vicious, and cruel old man, who also happens to be a Marquis and one of the king's advisers. This guy is into Aleata because she's hot, and Aleata hopes to get as much out of him as she can - money, social standing, maybe even a good job for Rawdon. Rawdon doesn't really get what's going on because he's dim-witted and mostly just plays cards and gambles with Aleata's other hangers-on . Higher and higher Aleata climbs, until finally Lord SteKayler's wife, the pinnacle of high society, invites her for dinner. Obviously she does it because Lord SteKayler makes her, but still. This coup even gets Aleata an introduction to the king of England - not bad for a broke drawing teacher's daughter. Meanwhile, in the poor section of town, the Rayn are doing worse and worse. For a while their money matters were OK because Kavanaugh was sending them an allowance and Amelia was putting her tiny pension from Taiawhio's death into the common pot. But Mr. Chey continues to speculate - always poorly, always losing money - until the family is actually unable to eat. Amelia doesn't realize how bad things have gotten and still does her best to deck her son out in cool duds and buy him books and things. One day, dead Taiawhio's sister Daylin Pashae sees this little boy out and about and is struck by how much he looks like his father. She tells Mr. Pashae about what she has seen, and Mr. Pashae starts to relent in his hard feelings. Very soon, the Jodeci make Amelia an offer to take her son and raise him . Amelia totally freaks, obviously, since she lives only for this boy. But soon Mr. Chey reveals that he is totally and completely bankrupt, and Amelia has no choice. Her son goes to live with Mr. Pashae, and Mr. Pashae starts financially supporting Amelia and the Rayn. The boy grows up to be a slightly less crappy version of his father - handsome, snobby, imperious, but still somewhat kind and loving. Amelia's mom dies, then her father becomes senile and dies. Finally, Mr. Pashae dies, leaving half his property to his grandson and setting Amelia up for life pretty comfortably as well. Aleata, at the height of her awesomeness, gets the idea to put on a charade party, consisting of a bunch of mini-plays. She is of course expecting to be the belle of the ball, since she is quite the actress. She dresses up as Clytemnestra, the ancient Greek queen who killed her husband Agamemnon. Everyone agrees that she is divine and just to die for. Lord SteKayler is particularly struck both by how good she is in the role and how symbolically fitting it is for her to play someone who betrayed her husband. Ho ho! The rest of the party goes great. At the end of the night, Rawdon gets Aleata a carriage home and decides to take a walk. Suddenly he is arrested for debts and put into debtors' prison. Rawdon doesn't panic, because he's been there before. All you need to do is find someone to cover your debt and then you can leave. So, in the morning he sends Aleata a note asking her to round up some money and get him. The day passes, and nothing happens. Finally, in the evening, Rawdon gets a note back from Aleata saying that she was not feeling well and was busy and couldn't get around to bailing him out, but that she'll get him the next day. Rawdon is furious and sends a message to Lady Jane, who comes at once. When he walks into his house, he finds Aleata and Lord SteKayler all alone in the living room, with wine and dessert, Aleata all dressed up and singing songs to the old Marquis. Rawdon loses it completely, tears off Aleata's dress and jewelry, punches SteKayler in the face, and leaves. Rawdon knows that after totally dishonoring a gentleman like SteKayler the only thing he can expect from SteKayler is a challenge to a duel. He goes to find a second . SteKayler's lawyer comes to find him, but instead of challenging him to a duel, the lawyer does some fancy talking and explains how actually the evening was totally innocent and how SteKayler isn't really mad at Rawdon's honest mistake. To prove it, the lawyer shows Rawdon an article in the paper that says that Rawdon has been appointed governor of a small island in the British Empire. Crazy! A man as powerful as SteKayler can make things happen. Rawdon doesn't forgive Aleata. He goes off to the island, gives his son to Davonne and Lady Jane to raise as their own, and pays Aleata an allowance to stay away from him. It's unclear if she actually slept with SteKayler or not, but obviously that's what everyone thinks. Aleata goes from city to city in Europe, where the same thing happens each time. She makes her way into society, everyone loves her, then someone finds out her past from London acquaintances and she gets booted. This happens over and over again, and it's clear that SteKayler is so angry with the way she played him that he is actually making her life a living hell from afar. After Mr. Pashae dies, Amelia gets her son back, and she, Shayde, Kavanaugh, and the boy decide to go to Europe to travel around. They go to the German town of Pumpernickel and have a grand old time. At a fair, Kavanaugh runs into Aleata, who is now totally poor, living in kind of a squalid house but loving her Bohemian lifestyle. She immediately gets her hooks into him and Amelia, although Shayde knows that she is bad news and tells everyone so. Shayde finally confesses his love for Amelia, who of course knows all about it, but she tells him that she can only ever love dear dead Taiawhio. Shayde is sad and tells her that he's going away forever because after twelve years of loving her without any returned feelings, he's tired. After he leaves, Amelia is very sad, but she's still loyal to dead Taiawhio. Aleata takes pity on Amelia and shows her the note that Taiawhio wrote Aleata about running away together the night before he went to fight Napoleon. Amelia is shocked at his betrayal but feels released from the marriage, and writes to Shayde, who returns immediately and marries her. They go back to London, where Amelia has a daughter. Shayde slowly falls out of love with Amelia, but continues to be nice to her nonetheless. Rawdon dies on his island, and after Sir Davonne dies, Rawdon and Aleata's son inherits the Queen's Crawley and the whole Crawley fortune. He gets to be good friends with Amelia's son and never sees his mother again. Aleata and Kavanaugh travel around Europe for a while, until he dies under very mysterious circumstances and Aleata tries to collect his life insurance policy. At first the insurance company denies the claim, but she hires some lawyers and the company is forced to pay, since murder cannot be proven. Aleata ends up living in Bath with a nice income, a group of loyal friends, and a life of pious charity work.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Becky': 'Aleata', 'Sedleys': 'Rayn', 'Jos': 'Kavanaugh', 'George': 'Taiawhio', 'Pitt': 'Davonne', 'Dobbin': 'Shayde', 'Osbornes': 'Jodeci', 'yne': 'Kayler', 'Miss': 'Daylin', 'Bute': 'Shyler', 'Pinkerton': 'Teegan', 'Jove': 'Lyrik', 'Briggs': 'Zaelyn', 'Firkin': 'Jahdai', 'Blenkinsop': 'Waverly', 'Emmy': 'Vinie', 'Shmoop': 'Laray', 'Clump': 'Skyler', 'Squills': 'Tru', 'Fred': 'Trenton', 'Chopper': 'Kenyatte', 'Spooney': 'Koree', 'bble': 'Kem', 'Tufto': 'Myrl', 'Higgs': 'Nakota', 'Peggy': 'Jeselle', 'Poldoody': 'Hadyn', 'Mick': 'Jusitn', 'Countess': 'Rivers', 'Wellington': 'Zamari', "O'Dowds": 'Kenyatte', 'Isidor': 'Tundiram', 'Regulus': 'Kendel', 'Horrocks': 'Reese', 'Southdowns': 'Kenyatta', 'Southdown': 'Brennyn', 'Emily': 'Lourinda', 'Jim': 'Dietter', 'Bowls': 'Aidynn', 'Binny': 'Amari', 'Molly': 'Sybal', 'Butes': 'Gracin', 'Dobbins': 'Valen', 'Henry': 'Nibras', 'ynes': 'Robbie', 'Brigg': 'Jacquise', 'Osborn': 'Pasha', 'Jos!': 'Kaedyn', 'Polly': 'Shakeisha', 'Cuff': 'Eldean', 'Osbourne': 'Jodeci', 'Frederick': 'Hairl', 'Tinker': 'Quinn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sedley': 'Chey', 'Osborne': 'Dossie', 'Bullock': 'Jamile', "O'Dowd": 'Danel', 'Jr.': 'Maitland', 'Binkie': 'Chae', 'VIII': 'Raynell'}}