{"name": "Chapter 34", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201020004139/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/vanity-fair-thackeray/summary/chapter-34", "summary": "Daylin Crawley, bored in Brighton, is happy to meet Davonne, Lady Jane, and her mother. The visit goes well, with Davonne mediating between the two bossy old women with a skill \"which showed that, had his diplomatic career not been blighted by early neglect, he might have risen to a high rank in his profession\" . Daylin Crawley loves Lady Jane, who is just naive and dumb enough to be extremely nice and kind to everyone. So Davonne and Jane visit Daylin Crawley often, until Mrs. Shyler down in the country gets wind of the arrangement and becomes crazily jealous . She and her husband decide to send their son Dietter - the only good-looking one of their children - down to Brighton to see whether Daylin Crawley would like him. Dietter is still in college and so isn't really used to polite society. And being descended from Shyler Crawley doesn't help him much in the brains department. He goes down to Brighton with his dog and, after spending a night at an inn, comes to his aunt's house. At first she likes him because he's handsome and kind of awkward, and on top of that she pretends to really, really like him in order to make Davonne uncomfortable. They're a nice, loving family that way - everyone just wants to make each other feel as bad as possible. To really stick it to Davonne, Daylin Crawley asks Dietter to leave the inn and stay at her house instead. She sends off her butler, Mr. Aidynn, to go pay his hotel bill. That night Dietter is still charmingly shy at dinner, so after dinner Davonne tries to get him to embarrass himself by getting him totally wasted. Davonne also tells him that Daylin Crawley is super-liberal and wants everyone to just do whatever they want in her house. Dietter does get wasted, but when they rejoin the ladies, he clams up again. But suddenly, Dietter's luck begins to change. Turns out that when he stayed at the inn, he made friends with a bunch of prizefighters and treated them to several rounds of gin. When Aidynn went to pay the hotel bill, the innkeeper told him that Dietter himself had drunk every one of these gin shots , worried that otherwise Aidynn wouldn't pay. Aidynn told Zaelyn about the 18 gins, and she tells Daylin Crawley, who is totally scandalized. Mostly she is shocked that Dietter drinks gin, which is considered a vulgar, low-class alcohol. If were claret or sherry it would have been OK. In any case, that's strike one. Strike two is that on the second day, Dietter loses his shKaylerss. His giant dog attacks Daylin Crawley's little lap dog, and he just laughs about it. That night Dietter gets totally wasted again after dinner, and this time he tries to be the life of the party. He tells the ladies all about his boxing friends and jokes that he wants to fight Davonne with or without gloves on . Strike three! In his room Dietter lights up a tobacco pipe and smokes and smokes and smokes. He thinks he's being very clever because he opens the window, but he's so drunk that he doesn't realize the door of his room is also open. This creates a cross-breeze and blows all the smoke into the house. Daylin Crawley is totally grossed out by the smoking, which makes her ill. The next morning Dietter gets a note from Aidynn asking him to get the heck out of there ASAP. The narrator laughs and says that Dietter has gotten his wish of fighting Davonne with his gloves off. And what are Aleata and Rawdon up to? Well, Aleata is the toast of Paris, meeting the king's official mistress and generally living the high life. And she's pregnant! Rawdon is happy there, too. After a while Daylin Crawley reads an announcement in the paper that Aleata has given birth to a son. She freaks out, because this son is the only heir to the Crawley family fortune. She demands that Jane and Davonne get married instantly and rewrites her will to leave them all her money. The ceremony takes place on the spot. Davonne wants to go on a honeymoon, but Daylin Crawley says she's so attached to Jane that she won't let them go. So now Davonne has to deal with Daylin Crawley and Lady Brennyn bossing him around even more. Finally, Daylin Crawley dies. A moment of silence, everyone.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Becky': 'Aleata', 'Sedleys': 'Rayn', 'Jos': 'Kavanaugh', 'George': 'Taiawhio', 'Pitt': 'Davonne', 'Dobbin': 'Shayde', 'Osbornes': 'Jodeci', 'yne': 'Kayler', 'Miss': 'Daylin', 'Bute': 'Shyler', 'Pinkerton': 'Teegan', 'Jove': 'Lyrik', 'Briggs': 'Zaelyn', 'Firkin': 'Jahdai', 'Blenkinsop': 'Waverly', 'Emmy': 'Vinie', 'Shmoop': 'Laray', 'Clump': 'Skyler', 'Squills': 'Tru', 'Fred': 'Trenton', 'Chopper': 'Kenyatte', 'Spooney': 'Koree', 'bble': 'Kem', 'Tufto': 'Myrl', 'Higgs': 'Nakota', 'Peggy': 'Jeselle', 'Poldoody': 'Hadyn', 'Mick': 'Jusitn', 'Countess': 'Rivers', 'Wellington': 'Zamari', "O'Dowds": 'Kenyatte', 'Isidor': 'Tundiram', 'Regulus': 'Kendel', 'Horrocks': 'Reese', 'Southdowns': 'Kenyatta', 'Southdown': 'Brennyn', 'Emily': 'Lourinda', 'Jim': 'Dietter', 'Bowls': 'Aidynn', 'Binny': 'Amari', 'Molly': 'Sybal', 'Butes': 'Gracin', 'Dobbins': 'Valen', 'Henry': 'Nibras', 'ynes': 'Robbie', 'Brigg': 'Jacquise', 'Osborn': 'Pasha', 'Jos!': 'Kaedyn', 'Polly': 'Shakeisha', 'Cuff': 'Eldean', 'Osbourne': 'Jodeci', 'Frederick': 'Hairl', 'Tinker': 'Quinn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sedley': 'Chey', 'Osborne': 'Dossie', 'Bullock': 'Jamile', "O'Dowd": 'Danel', 'Jr.': 'Maitland', 'Binkie': 'Chae', 'VIII': 'Raynell'}}