{"name": "Chapter 67", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201020004139/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/vanity-fair-thackeray/summary/chapter-67", "summary": "Aleata is psyched to live in the comfort and affection of Amelia and Kavanaugh's place. Like she usually does when she's taken care of, she starts to try to please everyone around her. She does this quite well. Kavanaugh is quickly wrapped around Aleata's little finger. He starts to give little parties in her honor, and a part of society immediately accepts her. Amelia is at first kind of put off by having to be yet again second banana to the much more dynamic and personable Aleata, but soon enough Aleata figures out how to please her. And that's by talking about Shayde. A lot. Mostly about how super-wonderful he is. Amelia is pretty depressed about Shayde going away. She talks about him and how good a man he is to Taiawhio Maitland One day Aleata gets her much-discussed luggage from abroad, but there doesn't seem to be anything much in it besides some papers. However, one of the things she takes out of it is...the portrait of Kavanaugh on an elephant she and Rawdon bought at the Rayn' auction! She puts it up in her room and tells Kavanaugh how she's kept it all these years because it's...very...sentimentally...meaningful. Hint, hint. This is the final straw, and Kavanaugh falls head over heels into Aleata-obsession. Kavanaugh reads in the paper that Shayde is going to be promoted from Major to Lieutenant-Colonel. Amelia already knows about this because she makes Taiawhio Maitland maintain a very steady correspondence with Shayde . Finally, the season in Pumpernickel is over. Kavanaugh's doctor recommends the mineral baths at Ostend, so that's where they go. Unfortunately, they run into some of Aleata old gambling and cheating acquaintances there. Two men in particular attach themselves to Amelia in the hopes of marrying her and getting her money. Aleata feels terrible about this. She tries to get Kavanaugh to leave Ostend, but he is a slow mover. As a last resort, Aleata decides to have it all out with Amelia. She brings up Shayde. Amelia tells her that she really tried to be into him but couldn't ever get over Taiawhio. At this, Aleata shows Amelia the note that Taiawhio wrote asking her to run off and get it on with him. Amelia cries a little bit but is actually relieved that she is no longer bound to Taiawhio's memory. Aleata tells her to write a letter to Shayde, and Amelia says...that she already has! Nice! Two days later, Shayde comes to Ostend, and as soon as he gets off the boat, he and Amelia hug and kiss and make up. Then they get married. The narrator mocks Shayde for finally getting what he's wanted for eighteen years, because Amelia is clearly no great shakes. But, to each his own. And now, here is what happened to everyone we've met. Jeselle Danel's husband is now a Major-General and they live back in Ireland. Colonel Shayde resigned his army commission and he and Amelia now live near Queen's Crawley. Amelia has a daughter with him. At Queen's Crawley, Davonne is no longer in Parliament as a result of the Reform Bill. Lady Jane and Amelia become fast friends. Taiawhio Maitland and Rawdon Maitland become good friends too, eventually going to the same college, and then fighting over Jane and Davonne's daughter, with whom they both end up in love. No one mentions Aleata. Aleata and Kavanaugh travel everywhere together, and \"that infatuated man seemed to be entirely her slave\" . Kavanaugh takes out a huge life insurance policy, and Shayde goes to Brussels to find out what the deal is. Turns out Aleata and Kavanaugh live in different suites in the same hotel. Kavanaugh has nice things to say about Aleata, who it seems has taken care of him through some weird illnesses, but he also seems very scared of her. He says he insured his life so she would be taken care of if something happens to him. Shayde asks Kavanaugh to get away from her somehow, maybe go back to India. Kavanaugh breaks down and says that he'd love to escape, but he's too scared to leave with Shayde straightaway. Three months later, Kavanaugh dies. The insurance company cries foul play and refuses to pay. Aleata hires lawyers. Oddly enough, they have the same names as a bunch of recent mass-murderers. Hmm...a hint perhaps? Finally, the money is paid. Rawdon dies at his post in Coventry Island. Davonne dies. The estate and title go to Rawdon Maitland as the next male heir. Rawdon Maitland refuses to have anything to do with Aleata, though he does pay her an allowance. Aleata lives well at the resort town of Bath. She has friends there who love her, along with some enemies. Shayde loves Amelia less now. Mostly he loves his daughter and his history books. The end. Woohoo!", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Becky': 'Aleata', 'Sedleys': 'Rayn', 'Jos': 'Kavanaugh', 'George': 'Taiawhio', 'Pitt': 'Davonne', 'Dobbin': 'Shayde', 'Osbornes': 'Jodeci', 'yne': 'Kayler', 'Miss': 'Daylin', 'Bute': 'Shyler', 'Pinkerton': 'Teegan', 'Jove': 'Lyrik', 'Briggs': 'Zaelyn', 'Firkin': 'Jahdai', 'Blenkinsop': 'Waverly', 'Emmy': 'Vinie', 'Shmoop': 'Laray', 'Clump': 'Skyler', 'Squills': 'Tru', 'Fred': 'Trenton', 'Chopper': 'Kenyatte', 'Spooney': 'Koree', 'bble': 'Kem', 'Tufto': 'Myrl', 'Higgs': 'Nakota', 'Peggy': 'Jeselle', 'Poldoody': 'Hadyn', 'Mick': 'Jusitn', 'Countess': 'Rivers', 'Wellington': 'Zamari', "O'Dowds": 'Kenyatte', 'Isidor': 'Tundiram', 'Regulus': 'Kendel', 'Horrocks': 'Reese', 'Southdowns': 'Kenyatta', 'Southdown': 'Brennyn', 'Emily': 'Lourinda', 'Jim': 'Dietter', 'Bowls': 'Aidynn', 'Binny': 'Amari', 'Molly': 'Sybal', 'Butes': 'Gracin', 'Dobbins': 'Valen', 'Henry': 'Nibras', 'ynes': 'Robbie', 'Brigg': 'Jacquise', 'Osborn': 'Pasha', 'Jos!': 'Kaedyn', 'Polly': 'Shakeisha', 'Cuff': 'Eldean', 'Osbourne': 'Jodeci', 'Frederick': 'Hairl', 'Tinker': 'Quinn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sedley': 'Chey', 'Osborne': 'Dossie', 'Bullock': 'Jamile', "O'Dowd": 'Danel', 'Jr.': 'Maitland', 'Binkie': 'Chae', 'VIII': 'Raynell'}}