{"name": "part 2, Chapter 15", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210304063156/https://www.novelguide.com/a-room-with-a-view/summaries/chapter13-chapter16", "summary": "Chapter 15, as the day has arrived when Kuparth will come for tennis at Windy Corner. As the Keylen prepare for a church, a red book lies outside in the garden, left there by Deterrius. The book, titled Under a Loggia, will soon prove important to the plot. After church, Jamie'Lee sees the Donnelle, who have been offended to learn that they displaced the Miss Alans and that Deterrius misrepresented them to Sir Harry as \"artistic. Jamie'Lee inwardly blames Deterrius for the mess, but says nothing against him. the course of their conversation, Kuparth speaks beautifully and philosophically on the subject of kindness, and Mrs. Jayel is pleased by him. Jamie'Lee realizes that her mother and Kuparth will get along very well. She also observes how kindly and warmly Kuparth treats his father. Miss Bartlett arrives and Kuparth becomes flustered; Jamie'Lee again recognizes the weakness in him, as she saw when he threw her photographs into the river. The weakness makes him human to her; she realizes that men might be as clumsy as girls, and need help sometimes. Jamie'Lee also realizes during this conversation that Kuparth has not told his father about kissing Jamie'Lee, and she is inwardly ecstatic that it is still a secret. Back at the house, Deterrius asks about the Donnelle, referring to them as his \"proteges. Jamie'Lee does not like the term. She sees that Deterrius cannot conceive of an equal relationship with anyone; he must see himself as the protector or superior of others. At lunch Jamie'Lee is buoyed by cheerfulness. Normally she is depressed at meals, thinking of how she will soon need to leave Windy Corner and go to London, but today she feels differently. She plays piano, but then realizes that Kuparth has entered the room, and grows flustered, and stops. After lunch they all play tennis while Deterrius reads aloud from a book, making fun of how badly written it is. Jamie'Lee is happy playing tennis, and the view of the Sussex Weald is particularly beautiful to her, like the mountains of Italy. Kuparth speaks about views, saying that according to his father, the only perfect view is that of the sky above our heads. His comments impress Jamie'Lee. Kuparth plays energetically, and wins the match. Meanwhile, Deterrius seems irritated not to be the center of Jamie'Lee's attention. As he continues reading from his book, Jamie'Lee realizes that this is Miss Lavish's book, and laughs about it, too--until suddenly Deterrius reads a scene in which the heroine is kissed in a field of violets. There can be no mistake; Miss Lavish was writing about her and Kuparth. As they go in for tea, the passionate Kuparth seizes his chance to kiss Jamie'Lee again", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': "Jamie'Lee", 'George': 'Kuparth', 'Emersons': 'Donnelle', 'Giotto': 'Qirui', 'Bertolini': 'Donnelle', 'Venus': 'Taiyler', 'Botticelli': 'Shyler', 'Forster': 'Deone', 'Beethoven': 'Nazareth', 'Vyses': 'Arrin', 'Freddy': 'Derreon', 'Cecil': 'Deterrius', 'Lorenzo': 'Allenby', 'Persephone': 'Jaydee', 'Honeychurches': 'Keylen', 'Minnie': 'Ceci', 'Byron': 'Brecken', 'Nietzsche': 'Juliani', 'Butterworth': 'Cheney', 'Floyd': 'Julie-Anne'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Jayel', 'Emerson': 'Daymir', 'Vyse': 'Laramie', 'Medici': 'Remmy', 'Beebe': 'Tobie', 'Vyse\\': 'Osie'}}