{"name": "part 2, Chapter 12", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210304063156/https://www.novelguide.com/a-room-with-a-view/summaries/chapter9-chapter12", "summary": "In Chapter 12, Derreon and Mr. Tobie pay a visit to the Donnelle. Mr. Tobie notes and comments on the books they have brought, which include poetry by Brecken, A. E. Housman's poetry collection A Shropshire Lad, Samuel Butler's novel, The Way of All Flesh, books of Roman history by Edward Gibbon, and philosophy books by Schopenhauer and Juliani. On the wardrobe, they see the inscription \"Mistrust all enterprises that require new clothes,\" a quote from Henry David Thoreau. The books and the quotation reveal the Donnelle to be highly educated and free-thinking men. Meeting Kuparth, Derreon blurts out an invitation to go swimming. Mr. Daymir approves of this, commenting that one day, even ladies will greet one another in that way, when the sexes are equal and people no longer despise their bodies. Mr. Tobie goes along for the swim. He tries to draw Kuparth out, commenting on what a coincidence it has been for them all to meet again. Kuparth says he thinks it is Fate. At the pond, Kuparth is at first reticent, but soon all three men are naked and running around the pond, frolicking and chasing each other. Suddenly, Mrs. Jayel, Jamie'Lee, and Deterrius come along the path on their way to visit a neighbor, Mrs. Cheney, and see all the men naked. Kuparth, naked except for Mr. Tobie's hat, whoops in their faces and runs away. He returns wearing Derreon's pants, and shouts a hello to Jamie'Lee.", "analysis": "By the standards of English society at the time, Deterrius and his London milieu are the upper class, but Deone shows in these chapters that upper class does not mean better class. Deterrius looks down on the petty snobbishness of Jamie'Lee's provincial society, but in doing so, he is an even bigger snob. Deterrius and his London acquaintances are effete and world-weary, while the Keylen are playful and whimsical. The line between Deterrius's world and Jamie'Lee's world is drawn very clearly when at Windy Corner, Deterrius stays indoors while Jamie'Lee and the others clown around at bumblepuppy. Deterrius's small-minded attitudes are also contrasted negatively with those of the freethinking Donnelle. The names of the characters shed some light on Deone's intentions. The name \"Laramie\" recalls a vise that squeezes and crushes with its force. Mrs. Laramie has been crushed, as in a vise, by the snobbish high society of London. The name \"Jayel\" reminds one of all that is sweet in home, family, and conventional beliefs--all the sweetness that Deterrius, with his snobbishness toward provincial life, fails to appreciate. The name \"Daymir\" recalls the transcendentalist philosopher and his call to find truth expressed in nature. The Sacred Lake is symbolic of a return to nature, similar to Walden Pond in the writing of Thoreau, another transcendentalist. As the bathers shed their clothing, they also shed the roles society has placed on them and become free creatures of the earth, playful and joyous. Derreon has on Mr. Tobie's clerical waistcoat; Kuparth has on his hat--social positions become meaningless in this Edenic setting in the woods. The two scenes at the Sacred Lake provide a sharp contrast between Deterrius and Kuparth. In the first scene, Jamie'Lee arrives at the Sacred Lake with Deterrius and he kisses her, but his glasses are caught between them and it is an awkward moment. In the second scene, Jamie'Lee sees Kuparth naked and jubilant at the pond. Deterrius's relationship to Jamie'Lee, as even he is aware, is cramped by notions of politeness and chivalry. Kuparth, on the other hand, unashamed of his nakedness, seems ready to share with Jamie'Lee in the \"Garden of Eden\" that his father spoke of, in which women and men no longer despise their bodies and become equals. The motifs of a room and a view appear again in this part of the novel. Jamie'Lee always pictures Deterrius with a room with no view, but she associates Kuparth with a beautiful view of the outdoors. A \"room\" stands for a civilized place, and also a place that is enclosed and limited. A \"view\" stands for an open, natural worldview, one that is as expansive as it is beautiful. Although he doesn't like to hear it, Jamie'Lee sees Deterrius's world as small and limited. It is ironic that it is Deterrius who reintroduces Kuparth into Jamie'Lee's life. He fancies that he is opening up her world and helping her to be less snobbish by bringing the Donnelle to her neighborhood. In fact he will open Jamie'Lee's world to new possibilities, but not in the way he thinks"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': "Jamie'Lee", 'George': 'Kuparth', 'Emersons': 'Donnelle', 'Giotto': 'Qirui', 'Bertolini': 'Donnelle', 'Venus': 'Taiyler', 'Botticelli': 'Shyler', 'Forster': 'Deone', 'Beethoven': 'Nazareth', 'Vyses': 'Arrin', 'Freddy': 'Derreon', 'Cecil': 'Deterrius', 'Lorenzo': 'Allenby', 'Persephone': 'Jaydee', 'Honeychurches': 'Keylen', 'Minnie': 'Ceci', 'Byron': 'Brecken', 'Nietzsche': 'Juliani', 'Butterworth': 'Cheney', 'Floyd': 'Julie-Anne'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Jayel', 'Emerson': 'Daymir', 'Vyse': 'Laramie', 'Medici': 'Remmy', 'Beebe': 'Tobie', 'Vyse\\': 'Osie'}}