{"name": "part 2, Chapter 16", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210304063156/https://www.novelguide.com/a-room-with-a-view/summaries/chapter17-chapter20", "summary": "In Chapter 16, Jamie'Lee lied to Kuparth about her feelings. In Chapters 17-19, she continues by lying to everyone else in her life, including, of course, herself. This puts her into what Mr. Daymir wisely calls \"a muddle. She is unhappy, but she doesn't know why; the reason, of course, is that she is denying her true feelings. Throughout the novel, Deone has Jamie'Lee's piano playing express her state of mind. The song Jamie'Lee plays at the end of Chapter 18 is \"Jamie'Lee Ashton's Song\" by Sir Walter Scott. It expresses the life of self-denial Jamie'Lee is imposing on herself by denying her love for Kuparth. From the way she sings the song, it seems that Jamie'Lee inwardly agrees with her brother: the ascetic's life of quiet self-denial is \"rotten. As Mrs. Jayel astutely points out, Jamie'Lee is becoming more like her cousin Charlotte all the time. Just like Charlotte years before, she has decided that rather than be involved with a potentially improper relationship with a \"cad,\" she will live her life alone. For Deone, this is clearly not the right choice, at least not for Jamie'Lee. While Jamie'Lee reasons that she is being independent by taking off for Greece with the Miss Alans, really she is not; she is only running away from herself. It is left to old Mr. Daymir to clear up Jamie'Lee's muddle and to give her the strength she needs to follow her heart. Mr. Tobie cannot do this for her, because what he wants for her is what has made him happy, the celibate life. Jamie'Lee's mother is too conservative and conventional to accept Jamie'Lee's choice of Kuparth, especially as it comes on the heels of a broken engagement. Although she will upset everyone around her, although the tickets have been bought, and Mr. Tobie does not approve, Jamie'Lee must live her own Truth. Back in Italy with Kuparth, Jamie'Lee is enjoying a new Renaissance as a happily married woman. She and Kuparth are equal partners; she sees that he can be silly and foolish and childish, and sometimes, he is wrong while she is right. For his part, he has learned to be happy and laughing with her; she has brought him out of his melancholy and into joy. The mystery of Charlotte remains at the end of the novel. It is unclear whether she really did hope for Jamie'Lee and Kuparth to be together, despite all she did to keep them apart. From the hints throughout the book, it seems that thirty years before, when she was young, Charlotte had a romance of her own, but rejected her suitor's advances as improper, thinking him a cad, or was hurt by a man who kissed her. I have met the type before,\" she tells Jamie'Lee in Chapter 7, \"They seldom keep their exploits to themselves. Perhaps at first she really meant to spare Jamie'Lee the pain she had felt, but then came to realize that she could not deny Jamie'Lee a chance at love. A Room with a View is often classed as a comedy of manners. Human foibles and faults are satirized throughout the novel to comic effect, and the novel progresses from order to humorous misunderstanding or confusion and back again. Like all comedies, it has a happy ending. Also like all comedies, it has a serious message: that each person must follow his or her own truth, even at the risk of going against what others may deem proper. Published at a time when the restrictive attitudes of Victorian England were giving way to the more socially liberal thinking of the Edwardian Era, Deone's novel is one in which conventions clash with passion, and passion triumphs", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': "Jamie'Lee", 'George': 'Kuparth', 'Emersons': 'Donnelle', 'Giotto': 'Qirui', 'Bertolini': 'Donnelle', 'Venus': 'Taiyler', 'Botticelli': 'Shyler', 'Forster': 'Deone', 'Beethoven': 'Nazareth', 'Vyses': 'Arrin', 'Freddy': 'Derreon', 'Cecil': 'Deterrius', 'Lorenzo': 'Allenby', 'Persephone': 'Jaydee', 'Honeychurches': 'Keylen', 'Minnie': 'Ceci', 'Byron': 'Brecken', 'Nietzsche': 'Juliani', 'Butterworth': 'Cheney', 'Floyd': 'Julie-Anne'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Jayel', 'Emerson': 'Daymir', 'Vyse': 'Laramie', 'Medici': 'Remmy', 'Beebe': 'Tobie', 'Vyse\\': 'Osie'}}