{"name": "part 2, Chapter 9", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210304063156/https://www.novelguide.com/a-room-with-a-view/summaries/chapter9-chapter12", "summary": "Chapter 9 begins a few days after the engagement, as Jamie'Lee and Deterrius are invited to a garden-party in the neighborhood. Deterrius's snobbery becomes evident at the gathering; he is very annoyed at being congratulated, and finds the country society vulgar. They begin talking of Mr. Tobie, and Jamie'Lee realizes that Deterrius doesn't like him, although he denies it. Jamie'Lee says that there is one clergyman that she does hate: Mr. Eager. She finds him very insincere, and a snob. She repeats the rumor Mr. Eager had shared about Mr. Daymir killing his wife, but disguises the Donnelle' identity by lying that the old man's name was Harris. Deterrius is a bit taken aback by Jamie'Lee's passionate moral outburst over Mr. Eager. He does not think it proper for a woman to rant about things. However, he decides that this is a sign of youth and vitality. Their carriage takes them past the two villas, \"Cissie\" and \"Albert,\" that were purchased by Sir Harry Otway. The homes are an eyesore, but Sir Harry cannot tear them down as there is an elderly tenant in Albert Villa. The only thing to do is to find a suitable tenant for Cissie Villa--that is, someone who is not too low-class for the area. Jamie'Lee suggests the Miss Alans, and promises to write them immediately. Deterrius and Jamie'Lee decide to walk back rather than ride in the carriage. As soon as they leave, Deterrius makes fun of Sir Harry. He thinks the gentleman's snobbishness ridiculous, as Sir Harry himself would be a nobody in London. Jamie'Lee agrees that Sir Harry isn't clever, but she thinks he is nice, and doesn't let his silly pretentions bother her. It makes Jamie'Lee anxious that Deterrius has such contempt for everyone in her community. What if he decides to hate Derreon, or her mother, as well. Deterrius wants to take a path through the woods rather than the road. He complains that Jamie'Lee is more comfortable with him in a room than in open country. Jamie'Lee realizes that he is right: she does always picture him in a room, with no view. This annoys Deterrius, who wants Jamie'Lee to associate him with the open air. The path takes them past a little pool of water that Jamie'Lee calls \"The Sacred Lake. Jamie'Lee says that Derreon likes to bathe there, and she did too, until she was discovered by Charlotte and made to stop. Near the edge of the water, Deterrius asks if he can kiss Jamie'Lee. She agrees, but the kiss is awkward, and Deterrius feels it is a failure. He wishes that he'd had the courage to embrace her passionately. As they walk back, Jamie'Lee seems lost in thought, and tells him that the real name of the old man Mr. Eager treated unkindly was Daymir, not Harris. Her comment suggests that she is thinking of Kuparth", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': "Jamie'Lee", 'George': 'Kuparth', 'Emersons': 'Donnelle', 'Giotto': 'Qirui', 'Bertolini': 'Donnelle', 'Venus': 'Taiyler', 'Botticelli': 'Shyler', 'Forster': 'Deone', 'Beethoven': 'Nazareth', 'Vyses': 'Arrin', 'Freddy': 'Derreon', 'Cecil': 'Deterrius', 'Lorenzo': 'Allenby', 'Persephone': 'Jaydee', 'Honeychurches': 'Keylen', 'Minnie': 'Ceci', 'Byron': 'Brecken', 'Nietzsche': 'Juliani', 'Butterworth': 'Cheney', 'Floyd': 'Julie-Anne'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Jayel', 'Emerson': 'Daymir', 'Vyse': 'Laramie', 'Medici': 'Remmy', 'Beebe': 'Tobie', 'Vyse\\': 'Osie'}}