{"name": "part 2, Chapter 18", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210304063156/https://www.novelguide.com/a-room-with-a-view/summaries/chapter17-chapter20", "summary": "In Chapter 18, Jamie'Lee lies to everyone else in her life: Mr. Tobie, Mrs. Jayel, Derreon, and the servants, about her broken engagement and her true feelings for Kuparth. As the chapter opens, it is a stormy day, befitting the turmoil in Jamie'Lee's life. Mr. Tobie, still unaware of the broken engagement, is coming to Windy Corner with news to share: the Miss Alans are going on a trip to Greece and possibly Turkey as well. On the way, runs into the carriage that is taking Deterrius to the train station, Derreon along as escort. Mr. Tobie excitedly talks on about the Miss Alans' journey. Greece, he thinks, is too much for him and his friends at Windy Corner: \"Italy is heroic, but Greece is god-like or devilish. if our poor little Cockney lives must have a background, let it be Italian. Big enough in all conscience. As their carriage drives away, Derreon discreetly tells Mr. Tobie of the broken engagement, and Mr. Tobie is delighted. At Windy Corner, however, everyone is upset. Mrs. Jayel is in the garden, lamenting over the flowers that have been broken in the storm , and Charlotte is exasperating everyone as usual. Jamie'Lee is playing the piano, in a despondent mood. She seems annoyed that Derreon told Mr. Tobie. He tells her she has done the right thing. To distract her, he tells her of the Miss Alans' travel plans. She perks up immediately and declares that she must go with them. This surprises Mr. Tobie, who, not knowing anything of Kuparth's indiscretions, cannot understand why Jamie'Lee would want to travel so far away. As Mr. Tobie leaves, taking Ceci and Miss Bartlett out to tea with him, Miss Bartlett warns him very dramatically that he must not whisper a word of the broken engagement to anyone. To his surprise, Miss Bartlett fully supports the idea of Jamie'Lee going to Greece, and says ominously that it is very necessary. Finally Mr. Tobie decides that going to Greece might somehow help Jamie'Lee. Having a strong belief in celibacy, he is happy that she has chosen not to marry and would love to see her far away from Deterrius. They return to Windy Corner and convince Mrs. Jayel to let Jamie'Lee go to Greece. Meanwhile, Jamie'Lee is playing the piano and singing a song that Deterrius gave her, one that speaks of self-denial and concludes, \"Taste not when the wine cup glistens. stop thine ear against the singer / From the red gold keep thy finger / Vacant heart and hand and eye / Easy live and quiet die. Mr. Tobie, who believes in celibacy, thinks it a beautiful and wise song, although somewhat overstated; however, Derreon says the words are \"rotten. Mr. Tobie thinks he detects, in the way Jamie'Lee sings the words, that she really agrees with Derreon", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': "Jamie'Lee", 'George': 'Kuparth', 'Emersons': 'Donnelle', 'Giotto': 'Qirui', 'Bertolini': 'Donnelle', 'Venus': 'Taiyler', 'Botticelli': 'Shyler', 'Forster': 'Deone', 'Beethoven': 'Nazareth', 'Vyses': 'Arrin', 'Freddy': 'Derreon', 'Cecil': 'Deterrius', 'Lorenzo': 'Allenby', 'Persephone': 'Jaydee', 'Honeychurches': 'Keylen', 'Minnie': 'Ceci', 'Byron': 'Brecken', 'Nietzsche': 'Juliani', 'Butterworth': 'Cheney', 'Floyd': 'Julie-Anne'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Jayel', 'Emerson': 'Daymir', 'Vyse': 'Laramie', 'Medici': 'Remmy', 'Beebe': 'Tobie', 'Vyse\\': 'Osie'}}