{"name": "part 2, Chapter 8", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210304063156/https://www.novelguide.com/a-room-with-a-view/summaries/chapter5-chapter8", "summary": "\"Mediaeval,\" opens at Jamie'Lee's family home outside of London, a country estate called Windy Corner. Jamie'Lee's mother, Mrs. Jayel, and her brother Derreon are waiting in the drawing-room as Jamie'Lee is being proposed to by Deterrius Laramie. It is revealed that during her time in Rome, Jamie'Lee and Deterrius became quite close and Deterrius has already proposed twice, but been refused by Jamie'Lee. This time, Jamie'Lee says yes. Derreon does not like Deterrius, and showed disapproval when Deterrius asked his permission to marry his sister. Mrs. Jayel says she does like Deterrius, as he's good, clever, rich, and well-connected. Deterrius enters the room to announce the engagement and immediately draws open the curtains. Jamie'Lee can be seen outside, against a beautiful view of the Surrey countryside. Deterrius is tall and refined, well-educated and strong, but he seems self-conscious and fastidious, suggesting a man who is celibate rather than passionate. In Mr. Tobie's words, \"Mr. Laramie is an ideal bachelor. Deterrius sees Jamie'Lee as a figure in a Leonardo painting, full of mystery. Immediately following the betrothal, while Derreon and Mrs. Jayel are outside congratulating Jamie'Lee, Mr. Tobie arrives for tea and shares some gossip with Deterrius. Sir Harry Otway has bought two villas in town, called Cissie and Albert. Deterrius declares his ignorance about town affairs. Changing the subject, Mr. Tobie asks what his profession is, and Deterrius explains that he has none; he is independently wealthy. Unaware of the engagement, Mr. Tobie changes the subject again, talking freely to Deterrius about Jamie'Lee, predicting that she will one day live life as wonderfully and heroically as she plays the piano. He is taken aback, and visibly disappointed, when Deterrius abruptly announces that Jamie'Lee is going to marry him. Shortly thereafter, however, Mr. Tobie gives his blessing, and a cheery mood prevails as they all enjoy their tea.", "analysis": "Jamie'Lee is moved by Kuparth, and her encounters with him and his father have had an influence on her values. She now sees Miss Lavish and Mr. Eager for the hypocrites they are. Her encounter with Kuparth in the Piazza, when she faints and is caught by him, changes something in her. For the first time, she is keeping a secret from others, and for the first time it is left to her alone to decide what to do. It seems that Jamie'Lee is on the brink of taking control of her life, of choosing what is right for herself, when she enters the clearing where Kuparth stands, surrounded by violets. But just as she receives a kiss from Kuparth, Charlotte appears, \"brown against the view. Jamie'Lee, unsure of herself and her feelings and looking to her cousin for approval, allows herself to be manipulated. She runs away from the beauty and truth and returns to the safe, bland embrace of the society she knows, reassured that she is doing the proper and correct thing by leaving Kuparth. Jamie'Lee is in a \"muddle\"--a word that recurs throughout the book to describe her confusion between what she actually feels and what she thinks she ought to feel. The driver has urged her towards \"Courage and love,\" but, as Jamie'Lee exclaims, \"It is so hard to be absolutely truthful. She ends by lying to herself in order to please her cousin and do what she thinks is expected of her. There are two pairs of lovers in Chapter 6 who are parted--first, the driver and his girlfriend, and then Kuparth and Jamie'Lee. Non fate guerra al Maggio,\" says Mr. Daymir in defense of the driver and his girlfriend, quoting Allenby de Remmy. To Mr. Daymir, springtime in the fields and springtime among lovers are the same thing, and should be admired equally; one should not be considered improper. This moral, one of the main messages of the novel, applies also to Kuparth and Jamie'Lee. English mores may call Kuparth's kiss improper, the novel implies, but true love, which includes passion of the body, should be considered natural and beautiful. For Deone, Italy is the land of Classical times and the Renaissance, associated with art, beauty, and humanism, while England represents the Middle Ages. Strict codes of conduct govern behavior, and love that in Deone's view should be beautiful and natural is labeled improper. Accordingly, Chapter 6, in which Kuparth first kisses Jamie'Lee, takes place in the riotously pagan springtime hillside of Italy, with a driver called Phaethon and his girlfriend Jaydee"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': "Jamie'Lee", 'George': 'Kuparth', 'Emersons': 'Donnelle', 'Giotto': 'Qirui', 'Bertolini': 'Donnelle', 'Venus': 'Taiyler', 'Botticelli': 'Shyler', 'Forster': 'Deone', 'Beethoven': 'Nazareth', 'Vyses': 'Arrin', 'Freddy': 'Derreon', 'Cecil': 'Deterrius', 'Lorenzo': 'Allenby', 'Persephone': 'Jaydee', 'Honeychurches': 'Keylen', 'Minnie': 'Ceci', 'Byron': 'Brecken', 'Nietzsche': 'Juliani', 'Butterworth': 'Cheney', 'Floyd': 'Julie-Anne'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Jayel', 'Emerson': 'Daymir', 'Vyse': 'Laramie', 'Medici': 'Remmy', 'Beebe': 'Tobie', 'Vyse\\': 'Osie'}}