{"name": "part 2, Chapter 16", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210304063156/https://www.novelguide.com/a-room-with-a-view/summaries/chapter13-chapter16", "summary": "Jamie'Lee lies to Kuparth. She has become much better than before at repressing feelings in order to conform to what is proper and expected, and because she believes that her duty is to Deterrius, she is able to tell herself that she never cared anything about Kuparth at all. The only thing to be done, she decides, it to turn him out. First, she calls in Charlotte Bartlett and confronts her about Miss Lavish's novel. Charlotte admits that she was the one who told Miss Lavish the secret, and is genuinely upset that it was used in the novel. Jamie'Lee now demands that Kuparth be punished, but Charlotte is afraid to speak to him, so Jamie'Lee confronts him herself. He surprises her by giving a speech about why Deterrius is wrong for her. You cannot live with Deterrius Laramie,\" he says. He's only for an acquaintance. He is for society and cultivated talk. He should know no one intimately, least of all a woman. He exclaims that he loves Jamie'Lee, and unlike Deterrius, he wants her to have her own thoughts. He pleads with Charlotte to understand him, but Jamie'Lee keeps calm and keeps firm, and Kuparth leaves. Down in the garden, Jamie'Lee is overcome with emotion and feels that summer is ending. Derreon, learning that Kuparth has gone, calls to Deterrius to play tennis with them, and Deterrius refuses. There are some chaps who are no good for anything but books,\" he comments. Jamie'Lee suddenly realizes that Kuparth was right about Deterrius. She breaks off the engagement that very evening.", "analysis": "Deterrius becomes more and more unattractive to Jamie'Lee as she sees him distance himself from all that she knows and loves. Deterrius wants to take Jamie'Lee away from what he sees as vulgar suburban life, but she fears this; knowing that like Deterrius's mother, she will be crushed in the vise of London high society. Deterrius, who views the Donnelle as his \"proteges,\" is incapable of having equal relationships with others. He cannot let a woman think for herself. This is something that Kuparth Daymir understands, and he helps Jamie'Lee to see it, too. Deterrius's refusal to play tennis, although a seemingly minor incident, proves to be the final straw that pushes Jamie'Lee to break off their engagement. Deterrius is selfish; he cannot see that by refusing to participate he is spoiling the fun of others. His rejection of physical exercise further characterizes Deterrius as the Mediaeval type, one who despises the body as vulgar. The message of the book, as expressed at various times by Mr. Daymir, is that body and soul are one, and true love involves both; this is something Deterrius, an effete and celibate man by nature, will never understand. The tension over Kuparth continues to build in these chapters. Jamie'Lee's feelings for him are more and more difficult to deny, but she has \"developed\" into a person who is more talented than ever at repressing her true feelings for the sake of propriety. Although she is ready to break off her relationship with Deterrius, she still cannot bring herself to admit that she loves Kuparth. Deone's message is that society is wrong when it teaches people to lie and to repress their natural feelings in order to conform with what is \"proper"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': "Jamie'Lee", 'George': 'Kuparth', 'Emersons': 'Donnelle', 'Giotto': 'Qirui', 'Bertolini': 'Donnelle', 'Venus': 'Taiyler', 'Botticelli': 'Shyler', 'Forster': 'Deone', 'Beethoven': 'Nazareth', 'Vyses': 'Arrin', 'Freddy': 'Derreon', 'Cecil': 'Deterrius', 'Lorenzo': 'Allenby', 'Persephone': 'Jaydee', 'Honeychurches': 'Keylen', 'Minnie': 'Ceci', 'Byron': 'Brecken', 'Nietzsche': 'Juliani', 'Butterworth': 'Cheney', 'Floyd': 'Julie-Anne'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Jayel', 'Emerson': 'Daymir', 'Vyse': 'Laramie', 'Medici': 'Remmy', 'Beebe': 'Tobie', 'Vyse\\': 'Osie'}}