{"name": "part 2, Chapter 19", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210304063156/https://www.novelguide.com/a-room-with-a-view/summaries/chapter17-chapter20", "summary": "In Chapter 19, Jamie'Lee and her mother go to London to visit the Miss Alans and make arrangements for the trip. The Miss Alans express surprise that Deterrius is allowing her to make the trip and that he will not even be present to see her off. Still intent on keeping the broken engagement a secret until she has left England, Jamie'Lee does not tell the Miss Alans the truth. Now over her disappointment, Mrs. Jayel is relieved that Jamie'Lee is not marrying Deterrius, and she doesn't understand why Jamie'Lee is keeping it a secret. Furthermore, she still doesn't understand why Jamie'Lee insists on leaving Windy Corner. You're tired of Windy Corner,\" she blurts out. Jamie'Lee is mixed up. It is true that she cannot be content at home, but this is because she is in a turmoil. She keeps telling herself that she does not love Kuparth and that she must go to Greece to get away from him. She admits to her mother that when she gets back from Greece, she'd like to live in London, that she wants more independence. Her mother grows angry and says that Jamie'Lee reminds her of Charlotte Bartlett, in the way she is always worrying and taking back words. Jamie'Lee is shocked, believing that she and Charlotte are nothing alike. After shopping in London and buying a Baedeker for Jamie'Lee, the two women return home. Their carriage passes by Cissie Villa, which is locked up. They learn that the Donnelle have left. Jamie'Lee starts to wonder if she has made a big muddle. The women stop at the Rectory to pick up Miss Bartlett, who asks to be taken to church. Jamie'Lee, not wanting to go to church, will wait in the Rectory. To her surprise, she sees Mr. Daymir there by the fire. He apologizes to Jamie'Lee for Kuparth's behavior. I taught him to trust in love,\" he explains. When love comes, that is reality. Jamie'Lee protests that Kuparth has behaved \"abominably,\" and Mr. Daymir asks her to be kind, as Kuparth has \"gone under\"--he is very depressed and does not want to live. Mr. Daymir reveals that the same had happened to Kuparth's mother. They had agreed not to baptize Kuparth, but when the boy became ill from typhoid, his mother, believing the illness a judgment from God, became depressed and died. This is what Mr. Eager had meant; from Mr. Eager's point of view, Mr. Daymir had killed his wife by refusing to baptize his son. Jamie'Lee feels very sorry, and is sad to hear about Kuparth. She pleads with Mr. Daymir not to leave the villa, but to stay, because at all events, she will be going to Greece. Mr. Daymir is surprised to hear that she is going to Greece, and even more so when he finds out that it is not with Deterrius. She admits to him that she has left Deterrius, and gives him her reasons. You are in a muddle,\" he tells her, and guesses the real reason for her trip--she loves Kuparth. Jamie'Lee begins to cry. The tickets have been bought, and she has lied to everyone. Mr. Tobie enters again, and Mr. Daymir tells him that Jamie'Lee has lied. He is disappointed in her, but Mr. Daymir gives her courage. Remember the mountains over Florence and the view. Truth counts, Truth does count. Later, she will wonder at how he was able to strengthen her, to make her see the holiness of desire", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': "Jamie'Lee", 'George': 'Kuparth', 'Emersons': 'Donnelle', 'Giotto': 'Qirui', 'Bertolini': 'Donnelle', 'Venus': 'Taiyler', 'Botticelli': 'Shyler', 'Forster': 'Deone', 'Beethoven': 'Nazareth', 'Vyses': 'Arrin', 'Freddy': 'Derreon', 'Cecil': 'Deterrius', 'Lorenzo': 'Allenby', 'Persephone': 'Jaydee', 'Honeychurches': 'Keylen', 'Minnie': 'Ceci', 'Byron': 'Brecken', 'Nietzsche': 'Juliani', 'Butterworth': 'Cheney', 'Floyd': 'Julie-Anne'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Jayel', 'Emerson': 'Daymir', 'Vyse': 'Laramie', 'Medici': 'Remmy', 'Beebe': 'Tobie', 'Vyse\\': 'Osie'}}