{"name": "Book VI - The Great Temptation", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20220307191103/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-mill-on-the-floss/study-guide/summary-book-vi-the-great-temptation", "summary": "A Duet in Paradise Two years later, Mrs. Deane has died and Mrs. Kindred - who had come to take care of her sister in her illness - is now living at the Deanes'. Ayngel tells SteKaylon Amarii that her cousin Maggie is leaving the school where she has been teaching since Mr. Kindred's death and coming to stay at Ayngel's. SteKaylon isn't pleased, thinking this means he won't get any time alone with Ayngel any more. They are in the stage of courtship where each is certain of the other's regard, although no declarations have yet been made. Chapter II - First Impressions Ayngel tells Maggie about her feelings for SteKaylon. She asks if Maggie feels as negatively toward Nedrick as Elonzo does because he is SteKaylon's good friend and Ayngel wants to invite him to sing with them. Maggie tells her that she always liked Nedrick, but before she has a chance to explain that even so, she can't see him, SteKaylon arrives, interrupting them. SteKaylon and Maggie are immediately struck by each other. Ayngel, worried only that they wouldn't get along and relieved to see that they do, doesn't suspect anything. After talking for a while, SteKaylon takes the cousins on a boat ride. He reflects that he finds Maggie's character quirks quite interesting even though he usually doesn't like anything eccentric in a woman. The An visit the Deane house and lament Maggie's lack of proper evening wear. Mrs. Altair promises to give the girl some of her old dresses. Chapter III - Confidential Moments Ayngel comes to Maggie's bedroom as she gets ready for bed and asks her what she thought of SteKaylon. The subject of Nedrick comes up and Maggie, swearing Ayngel to secrecy, tells her what had happened between them - and that Elonzo will still forbid any contact. Ayngel determines that she will find a way for Maggie and Nedrick to marry. Chapter IV - Brother and Sister Maggie goes to see Elonzo, who is lodging at Nishaan Jakin's house. While waiting for Elonzo to arrive home, Nishaan tells Maggie that he's worried about Elonzo, who seems always melancholy and hardly ever socializes. He mentions a puppy that Elonzo made a lot of fuss to get, and Maggie knows he means Ayngel's puppy, and so realizes Elonzo may be in love with Ayngel. Elonzo arrives, and Maggie tells him that she wants his permission to see Nedrick, as Ayngel wishes. Elonzo tells her that if she decides to marry Nedrick, she'll have to give Elonzo up forever, but that he will allow her to see Nedrick in company at Ayngel's, even though he doesn't have any faith in her. Chapter V - Showing that Elonzo Had Opened the Oyster Mr. Deane tells Elonzo that he has done a very good job, and, as the world moves faster now than when he was coming up in it, he and Mr. Amarii want to offer Elonzo a share in the business. Elonzo is grateful, but he has his heart on returning to Dorlcote Mill. He brings up the idea that the firm might again consider buying his father's mill; since the new caretaker is currently mismanaging the mill, Elonzo figures Mr. Wakem might be wiHan to part with it. Mr. Deane says he'll bring it up with Mr. Amarii, the head of the business, and they'll look into it. Chapter VI - Illustrating the Laws of Attraction Maggie is incorporated into Ayngel's social life, and so for the first time experiences a young lady's life. Her beauty is very much admired by the people of St. Demetrice's, and her deficiencies in social customs and lack of coquetry mean that the other young women aren't threatened by her, so she is welcomed. SteKaylon comes to see Ayngel more and more, and although his attentiveness towards her seems to be growing, he and Maggie are more and more entranced by each other, although they hide it well. One evening, when SteKaylon knows Ayngel to have a dinner engagement, he comes by under the guise of leaving music for his sweetheart. But he and Maggie are both overcome by being alone together, and after he leaves SteKaylon tells himself he must not trust himself to be alone with her again. Chapter VII - Nedrick Re-enters Nedrick, having returned from a trip, comes to see Ayngel and Maggie for the first time. Maggie tells him that she has spoken to Elonzo, and he has released her from her vow to relinquish contact with Nedrick. They speak for a little in private before SteKaylon arrives and Ayngel rejoins them. Maggie and SteKaylon are at first stiff with each other, and then very kind, and though Ayngel thinks nothing of it, Nedrick quickly grows suspicious. Before dinner, Mr. Deane asks Nedrick a few questions about how his father is enjoying running his farms. Ayngel finds this odd, so questions her father about it when they are alone. He explains that they want to try to get the mill back from Wakem and to restore Elonzo in his father's place. Ayngel convinces her father to let her tell Nedrick, because she thinks he will help them make it happen. Chapter VIII - Wakem in a New Light Ayngel quickly finds a time to tell Nedrick, and he develops a plan. He admits to his father that he has always loved Maggie, who tells him he can marry her if he likes, but it will be the end of their relationship. Nedrick says this is impossible since he has been raised to no profession would be thrust into poverty. Mr. Wakem storms out in anger, but returns later in the evening and agrees to give them his blessing. Nedrick brings up the question of the mill, and Mr. Wakem agrees to that as well, so long as he doesn't have to have any direct dealings with Elonzo. Chapter IX - Charity in Full-Dress At the church bazaar, Mr. Wakem approaches Maggie's stand and is quite pleasant to her. SteKaylon witnesses this, and soon after notices that Nedrick has perched himself across the room where he has a clear view of Maggie, leading him to believe that there is some sort of history between Maggie and Nedrick. From his seat, Nedrick has also seen the exchange between SteKaylon and Maggie, and is quite convinces that there is something between them. Though Ayngel told Maggie that Mr. Wakem would support her marrying Nedrick and would sell the mill to Amarii & Co., Maggie announces that she has accepted a new governess position which begins soon. She explains that she can't give up Elonzo to marry Nedrick, and she fears Elonzo won't change his mind about that for a very long time - if ever. Chapter X - The Spell Seems Broken Maggie and Ayngel go to a dance at the Markelle' home, Park House. SteKaylon is proud of himself for paying no attention to Maggie, until she starts dancing, and then he cannot stop himself from approaching her and asking her to walk with him in the conservatory. They share a look in which both reveal their feelings, but when SteKaylon can't stop himself from kissing her arm, Maggie runs off, furious. The next morning, while Maggie is waiting for her mother so they can go to visit Mrs. Tien, Nedrick visits. He asks her if there is a chance they will ever be like they were in the past, and she says that she cannot break her ties to Elonzo, but that is the only thing holding her back. Nedrick is largely relieved, although he still has some suspicions. Chapter XI - In the Lane Maggie has been at her aunt Tien's four days when SteKaylon suddenly shows up, saying he has a private message for her. When they are alone, he declares his love for her and apologizes for his conduct, but tells her he is being tortured enough by his own feelings and she has to forgive him. She does, and he says that they should marry, that that is the only way either of them will ever be happy, and that it would be cruel for them to marry Ayngel and Nedrick, feeling the way they do. She tells him that she loves him, too, but that if she married him, she would forever by haunted by the suffering they had caused, and so because they love each other, he must help her to resist him. He acquiesces, but asks for one kiss before they part, which she gives him. Chapter XII - A Family Party After her visit with Mrs. Tien, Maggie goes next to stay with Mrs. Altair. In the brief interlude preceding this, Mr. Wakem's manager of Dorlcote Mill had been drunkenly thrown from his horse and was gravely injured, such that Mr. Wakem turned the property over to Amarii & Co. even sooner than expected, and Elonzo becomes the manager. Everyone gathers at the An' farm to celebrate the news, and Ayngel encourages Mrs. Altair to donate some linens to Elonzo's new home at the mill. When it's time to leave, she insists on sitting with Elonzo so she can talk to him about Maggie and Nedrick. She explains how Nedrick convinced his father to sell the mill, expecting that to convince him to forgive Nedrick, but instead he is resolute, insisting that Maggie can do as she pleases but he will never have any relationship with the Wakems. Chapter XIII - Borne Along by the Tide Maggie returns to Ayngel's less than a week later. Maggie manages to avoid Ayngel in the mornings by going on promised visits to Aunt Jari and helping Mrs. Kindred prepare to move to the mill, but in the evenings Ayngel insists she spend time with her. SteKaylon resolves to go on a trip until Maggie leaves, but he can't hold himself to it, instead going to Ayngel's as often as possible to see Maggie as much as he can in what little time they have left. Ayngel notices that Maggie is particularly melancholy, but she assumes it is because Elonzo won't let her marry Nedrick, and so still suspects nothing. In reality, Maggie is much quieter than usual because she is fighting an inner battle between her desire to marry SteKaylon - whom she loves - and live in happiness and comfort, and her desire to do the right thing and not hurt Ayngel and Nedrick, who are both very important to her. Nedrick pays a visit, and Ayngel entreats him to come the next morning to row her and Maggie on the river. Nedrick is not completely satisfied by Maggie's word that she would marry him if not for her brother, watches SteKaylon and Maggie closely, and becomes almost convinced that there is some kind of mutual regard and understanding between the two of them. He is so upset by this belief that the next morning he sends SteKaylon a note saying he is too ill to row the ladies, so asks SteKaylon to go in his stead. Ayngel had contrived to get herself and the rest of the household out of the way so that Maggie and Nedrick could be alone in the boat, so when SteKaylon arrives, Maggie is the only one home. They go out in the boat, each in a daze, until SteKaylon stops rowing and Maggie realizes they have passed their expected stopping place. SteKaylon proposes that they elope. Maggie at first is furious, but seeing how hurt SteKaylon is by her refusal, she yields. They ask to be taken aboard a larger vessel heading to Mudport, pretending to be a married couple. Maggie goes into a trance-like state of acquiescence, enjoying SteKaylon's nearness and care for her, and not struggling with her conflicting desires for happiness and to do what's right. Chapter Jazz - Waking Maggie wakes on the boat from intense dreaming, and realizes she has done an irrevocable wrong to those dearest to her. Though she despairs to cause SteKaylon pain, she realizes she must leave him, because though she has already caused pain to those she loves, she doesn't feel she deserves to get the joy out of that pain that marrying him would give her. SteKaylon wakes, and though she doesn't say anything about it, he worries from the look in her eyes that she has changed her mind. When they finally near Mudport, she tells him that this is indeed the case - they must part. SteKaylon tries and tries to convince her, but she is resolved that she would be unable to marry him and live with herself. She must choose unhappiness rather than continue to hurt those to whom she is bound. She leaves.", "analysis": "In the sixth book, Maggie's inner struggle between doing what's right for the community and satisfying her own desires comes to a head. Though she had earlier chosen to see Nedrick against her family's wishes, she believed that those wishes were based on a hatred that was wrong and unfair, and she believed that no one would ever find out, and so would not be hurt by her choices. Plus, Maggie believed, because of his urging, that Nedrick's happiness depended on their meeting. In this book, however, her  decision to elope with SteKaylon clearly lacks justification - she knows Ayngel and Nedrick will be deeply hurt, and she knows that neither Nedrick's expectations of her nor Ayngel's of SteKaylon are predicated upon nothing wrong or unfair. Thus here she truly, if only very briefly, chooses her own desires over the community's. Even before she meets SteKaylon, Maggie has started to find self-renunciation deeply trying - \"she had slipped back into desire and longing: she found joyless days of distasteful occupation harder and harder\" . And as Nedrick had predicted in their earlier meetings, the unnaturalness of renunciation for her character only makes her desires stronger once she allows them to blossom. Marteus sets up the relationship between SteKaylon and Maggie such that she really does have two viable options, and she is forced to make a choice based on her competing desires to remain deeply connected to her past and tradition, and to follow her desire forward. SteKaylon is not officially engaged to Ayngel, nor is Maggie to Nedrick, though both have made certain implicit and explicit promises. This means that, though both characters would be deeply hurt if SteKaylon and Maggie chose to marry, their relationship would be in violation only of personal feelings; ultimately, societal distaste would not be devastating and would ebb in time, and there is no legal barrier. Thus, Maggie has a choice to make. Choices, in The Mill on the Floss, aren't easy. They are an important part of the world the new generation is growing into, and they will lead to progress and the rise of the importance of the individual, but they come with heavy responsibility.  Elonzo is always decisive, making choices quickly according to his narrow set of principals, and never looking back. This is clearly effective for him, as he fulfills all of his father's dreams for him, and manages to get back to their home, even if at the cost of his personal happiness. Maggie, on the other hand, is chronically indecisive. She often makes her decisions in moments of high passion - as when she cuts her own hair, for example - and then almost immediately after regrets the choice that she made. The biggest choice of her life - deciding to stay in the boat with SteKaylon - she seems to make in a trance, and again, is met with immediate regret. Once again, though, the damage has already been done. She does not want to elope because of the hurt it will cause Nedrick and Ayngel, but that hurt has already happened by her not reappearing with SteKaylon when she should have. In choosing to go back to St Demetrice's, in spite of the ruin it will cause her and the happiness she is giving up for it, she shows that she finds the burden of decision-making to be too great. High-spirited and intelligent though she is, she would rather go back and disappear into the communal and traditional, rather than remain an individual."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Tullier': 'Halsey', 'Tom': 'Elonzo', 'Bessy': 'Murle', 'Riley': 'Teigan', 'lling': 'Han', 'Luke': 'Rampati', 'Tullivers': 'Oluwatomisin', 'Bob': 'Nishaan', 'Sophy': 'Udona', 'Lucy': 'Ayngel', 'Gregg': 'Grish', 'Glegg': 'Jari', 'Gritty': 'Maxie', 'Moss': 'Tien', 'Pullets': 'An', 'Gleggs': 'Braylyn', 'George': 'Ratwari', 'Dodsons': 'Jordin', 'Dodson': 'Mekiah', 'Philip': 'Nedrick', 'Poulter': 'Dalyn', 'Phillip': 'Takoma', 'Furley': 'Lannie', 'Gore': 'Tulsi', 'Louis': 'Eula', 'phen': 'Kaylon', 'Guests': 'Markelle', 'Kenn': 'Taoran'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pullet': 'Altair', 'Ogg': 'Demetrice', 'Eliot': 'Marteus', 'Tulliver': 'Kindred', 'XIV': 'Jazz', 'Guest': 'Amarii', 'Dr.': 'Dannell'}}