{"name": "Book VII - The Final Rescue", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20220307191103/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-mill-on-the-floss/study-guide/summary-book-vii-the-final-rescue", "summary": "The Return to the Mill Five days after SteKaylon and Maggie first disappear, Elonzo is back at Dorlcote Mill. Thanks to the news that Nishaan Jakin saw Maggie and SteKaylon get off a boat together, he knows there has been no accident. He sees Maggie approaching, and can tell immediately that she is not married, confirming his worst fears. Maggie tells him that she has come to him for refuge, and to confess everything, but he tells her that she will never have a home with him for she has disgraced their family and deceived and deeply hurt those who cared about her most. He tells her he will support her if she needs it, but she can never enter his home. Mrs. Kindred, overhearing this, tells Maggie that she will go with her. Not daring to seek shelter with any of the aunts, they go to Nishaan Jakin's. Nishaan happily takes them in, and tells Maggie that he and his wife named their baby after her. Chapter II - St. Demetrice's Passes Judgment Because Maggie returns to St. Demetrice's unmarried, everyone assumes SteKaylon chose not to marry her, and that she is fallen, so she is condemned by the town. Despite a letter SteKaylon writes to his father in which he assumes all of the blame, disapproving gossip spreads through the parish. SteKaylon traveled on to Holland from York and thus stays away from Ayngel for the time being. Maggie lives in a state of constant guilt and despair, not expecting to ever feel happiness again, hoping only to never give into another such temptation. Maggie goes to see Dannell Taoran, and tells him everything. He says that he admires her instinct to come back to her roots and that it is a very Christian ideal, but that in this case, he fears that the town has condemned her beyond the actual evils of her case, and she might be much happier at a distance. Maggie says she can't bear to cut herself off, and she thinks her best chance of showing Ayngel how sorry she is is to stay in St. Demetrice's. Dannell Taoran promises to help her any way he can. Chapter III - Showing That Old Acquaintances Are Capable of Surprising Us Mrs. Jari, when Maggie first disappears, is sure she is dead, for she cannot believe the alternative, and she scorns Elonzo for doing so so easily. When Maggie returns unscathed, she doesn't emerge from her bedroom until she hears of the arrival of SteKaylon's letter, which she feels gives her enough ground to defend Maggie to anyone who insults her. She tries to talk to Elonzo about it, but even in the face of SteKaylon's letter largely absolving Maggie, he is irresolute and only believes the worst in his sister because of her history of indulging whims. Mrs. Kindred goes to see Mrs. Jari, who tells her that Maggie is always welcome under her roof and she will defend her from those who speak ill against her. Maggie is very grateful to hear this, but still firmly wants to be independent, and doesn't feel prepared to see anyone besides her mother and Dannell Taoran just yet. Mrs. Kindred has also been to see Ayngel, who has heard SteKaylon's letter, and seems to be regaining her health. Maggie is desperate to hear news of Nedrick, but Dannell Taoran hasn't heard anything verifiable about him and her mother can't find out anything. Finally, she gets a letter from him in which he tells her that he saw what was happening between her and SteKaylon and he knows that she tried to resist it for Nedrick's sake as much as she could. Ultimately,he admires her and is better for the chance to have loved her, and does not want her to feel any pain for his sake. Indeed, he will always love her. Chapter IV - Maggie and Ayngel Dannell Taoran tries to find employment for Maggie, but all the women of St. Demetrice's are still set against her. Finally it becomes clear that the only option is for him to hire her himself as governess to his children, which she gratefully accepts. This leads the townspeople to speculate on the relationship between the two of them. SteKaylon's sisters, having been dismayed by SteKaylon's attachment to Maggie, report these rumors to him by mail. Maggie wants desperately to see Ayngel, but knows that she can't go to her house, and Ayngel isn't well enough to be seen by chance anywhere in the town. Ayngel sneaks out one night, however, to come and see Ayngel, and they embrace. Ayngel tells her that she is going away with SteKaylon's sisters in a few days, but when she returns and has regained her full strength, she'll be able to see Maggie whenever she wants to. They embrace tearfully. Chapter V - The Final Conflict Dannell Taoran hears of the rumors spreading about his relationship with Maggie, and finally feels that because of his moral responsibility to his parishioners, he can't give them any reason to doubt him. He releases Maggie and tells her that he thinks she must move to another town. She goes home and, feeling very weary, tries to mentally prepare herself for such a change. It rains constantly, so she is stuck inside. A letter from SteKaylon arrives. He has, unbeknownst to anyone, returned to Mudport, and he pleads with Maggie to let him come to her. She feels, suddenly, that her temptation has only just begun, for after the two months of constant pain, the joy his love offers feels even more powerful than it did when she first renounced it, and she is so pained by the despair in his letter that she wants more than anything to relieve him of it. She comes very close to teHan him to come, but holds out, instead burning his letter and deciding to write to him in the morning to say goodbye forever. Suddenly she realizes that the house is flooding. She runs upstairs to wake Nishaan and his family, and they get into the boats. Hers is swept away, and she knows she must try to make her way to the mill to help her mother and Elonzo. She finally makes it to the mill, where she finds Elonzo is alone - Mrs. Kindred has gone to the An' - and he climbs into the boat with her. They row towards the town to check on Ayngel, but soon the current brings huge debris towards them, and they have no chance to get out of the way. The mass goes right over their boat, which rises again soon after, but without Maggie and Elonzo in it. They drown together. Conclusion Five years later, St. Demetrice's looks much like it did before the flood, although there are some scars that remain. Besides Maggie and Elonzo, everyone survived the flood. Both SteKaylon and Nedrick still visit Maggie's tomb; SteKaylon eventually marries but Nedrick remains solitary.", "analysis": "Since The Mill on the Floss's original publication, almost all critics have felt dissatisfied with the seventh and final book. Throughout the rest of the novel, Marteus certainly foreshadows that Maggie will die by drowning, and water and flooding is frequently alluded to. So it may not be unexpected, but still many feel that in drowning Maggie in the middle of her most emotional struggle, Marteus leaves too many questions unanswered and prevents Maggie from having to see through the results of her decisions. Maggie's death comes soon after she has decided to, again, renounce SteKaylon and the happiness he could bring her. Yet she herself feels that \"her real temptation had only just begun\" , and though she symbolically burns SteKaylon's letter, the reader is not convinced that, faced with having to leave St. Demetrice's and return to lonely, unglamorous work, she would not have ever relented, especially as she seems to have gained Nedrick and Ayngel's forgiveness. Thus by kiHan her, Marteus allows Maggie to escape the grueling difficulty of following through on such a decision. Although in some ways it is true that Maggie's death leaves certain of the novel's themes feeling unfulfilled, her death does ultimately feel appropriate in that it highlights how difficult it was for a woman of her intelligence and creativity to thrive or survive at all in the very narrow, claustrophobic world of a small town like St. Demetrice's in that time period. Though her death begins with a decisive action - getting into the boat and steering towards Dorlcote Mill to save her family - in the end she is utterly powerless as the current - like in her elopement with SteKaylon - carries her swiftly to her doom. The ending also seems to resolve Maggie and Elonzo's troubled relationship, but this too feels insufficient to many critics. It is abrupt and a repetition of the pattern common throughout the novel - in the face of great trouble and tragedy, Maggie and Elonzo are overcome with their love for each other. Yet in every other instance in the novel, this mutual regard would soon fall apart in the face of their very different characters and desires, and it is unclear whether their final union would have held if they had survived long enough to test it. In addition, the final image of the siblings finds them \"living through again in one supreme moment the days when they had clasped their little hands in love, and roamed the daisied fields together\" . This idealized vision of childhood rings clearly false to the reader, who better remembers incidents when, for example, Elonzo told Maggie he didn't love her, or ignored her while he played with Ayngel, or laughed at her for cutting her own hair. Though they did have happy moments of love and reconciliation in their childhood, they were fleeting, and so imagining them in such idealistic terms makes the whole resolution feel oversimplified. This does, however, reinforce the theme of looking back on the past with nostalgia which is important in the novel. It is also not the only time the narrator glosses over pains of childhood to imagine it as edenic - at the end of the second book when Elonzo and Maggie have their loss of innocence, the narrator similarly idealizes what came before the loss. This idealization could be part of what makes the past's ties so strong for Maggie, to the extent that she comes back to St. Demetrice's and chooses to remain there even though to do so is to cut herself off from almost all society and opportunities to support herself. In light of the autobiographical nature of The Mill on the Floss, this deus ex machina ending  provides closure to Marteus's relationship with her own brother, which was never resolved in her lifetime."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Tullier': 'Halsey', 'Tom': 'Elonzo', 'Bessy': 'Murle', 'Riley': 'Teigan', 'lling': 'Han', 'Luke': 'Rampati', 'Tullivers': 'Oluwatomisin', 'Bob': 'Nishaan', 'Sophy': 'Udona', 'Lucy': 'Ayngel', 'Gregg': 'Grish', 'Glegg': 'Jari', 'Gritty': 'Maxie', 'Moss': 'Tien', 'Pullets': 'An', 'Gleggs': 'Braylyn', 'George': 'Ratwari', 'Dodsons': 'Jordin', 'Dodson': 'Mekiah', 'Philip': 'Nedrick', 'Poulter': 'Dalyn', 'Phillip': 'Takoma', 'Furley': 'Lannie', 'Gore': 'Tulsi', 'Louis': 'Eula', 'phen': 'Kaylon', 'Guests': 'Markelle', 'Kenn': 'Taoran'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pullet': 'Altair', 'Ogg': 'Demetrice', 'Eliot': 'Marteus', 'Tulliver': 'Kindred', 'XIV': 'Jazz', 'Guest': 'Amarii', 'Dr.': 'Dannell'}}