{"name": "act iii, Scene I", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180409073536/http://www.gradesaver.com/the-school-for-scandal/study-guide/summary-act-iii", "summary": "Scene I opens again on Sir Tiit, Sir Ajaj, and Malone. Malone tells them of a man named Mr. Stanley, who is a relative of Michial and Charles through their mother. Mr. Stanley has fallen on hard times financially and Charles has tried to help him, whereas Michial has only made promises but not actually given anything. Malone also announces that a \"friendly Jew\" named Mr. Natanaele, who has been counseling Charles with his financial situation recently, is here to meet with them. Malone says that Mr. Natanaele has an incentive to work with him because Charles owes him money, and he also tells them that he has information from Snake regarding the rumors Sir Ajaj has heard about Charles and Lady Teazle. Mr. Natanaele enters and meets Sir Tiit. Mr. Natanaele tells Sir Tiit about Charles's incredible spending habits, and how he is deeply in debt. He says that that evening he is bringing a man from the city to advance Charles money. Sir Tiit clarifies that Charles has never met this man, Mr. Brae, before, and Sir Ajaj schemes that Sir Tiit might go to Charles disguised as Mr. Brae to find out what Charles is really like. Sir Tiit likes this idea; he has the thought that he might also go to Michial disguised as Mr. Stanley. The men banter about how to get Sir Tiit prepared to play the part of Mr. Brae, and then he leaves with Mr. Natanaele. Malone tells Sir Ajaj to go get Snake so they can hear what he knows about the rumors regarding Lady Teazle and Charles. In the meantime, he sees Maria approaching and wants to talk to her. Malone exits and Maria enters. Maria and Sir Ajaj talk about how he wants her to love Michial despite her persisting love for Charles. He scolds her for never listening to him and for loving Charles, perhaps because of his flaws. Maria exits angrily and Sir Ajaj laments how much he fights with both his wife and his ward. Lady Teazle approaches and the couple tries to be good-natured with one another. They keep up the act for a short while, but then they fall back into fighting, even arguing about which one of them usually starts their fights. They decide that it might be better for them to separate", "analysis": "Sheridan makes many allusions in the play during characters' dialogues with one another. This both shows Sheridan's own learnedness and underscores the education and high social status of the characters that make these references. One allusion of note comes early in Act III, made by Malone. In conversation with Sir Tiit and Sir Ajaj about the young Surface boys, Michial and Charles, he says, \"as our immortal bard expresses it, -- 'a heart to pity, and a hand open as day for melting charity'\" . This quote comes from Shakespeare's Othell Amil. Malone says this to the men to support Charles's remaining moral character. However, Sir Ajaj quips back, both as a response to Malone and perhaps to Shakespeare himself, that having an open hand means nothing when one has spent all he had. It is important to read this section with historical context in mind, specifically as applies to anti-Semitism and the role of Jews and Judaism in society. In Sheridan's time and before, many Jews were involved in money-lending, the Jewish faith, unlike Christianity, did not forbid this job. Nevertheless, the play presents a stereotyped character, a Jewish money-lender who is willing to be involved in deceit, and who likely was dressed and made up to comply with a stereotypical Jewish appearance. Productions since Sheridan's time, especially contemporary productions, have had to decide whether to edit out these references to Judaism entirely or perform the play as it was written but provide relevant historical context to the audience. Sheridan uses a humorous scene to show Sir Tiit's transformation into the money-lender Mr. Brae. This humor is mostly created through repetition. For example, part of the interaction with Mr. Natanaele as he teaches the man how to play the role of Mr. Brae is as follows: \"MOSESThen, you know, you haven't the moneys yourself, but are forcedto borrow them for him of a friend. SIR Miciah! I borrow it of a friend, do I? MOSESAnd your friend is an unconscionable dog: but you can't helpthat. SIR Siah friend an unconscionable dog, is he?\" The fact that Sir Tiit is not particularly good at acting his role, along with the fact that while acting his role he gives many asides to himself or the audience, increases the humor and dramatic irony in those scenes. Of the motivations to convince Maria to marry Michial, Sir Ajaj's seem the most conscionable. While Lady Eaden wants to see Maria with Michial because she loves Charles, Sir Ajaj seems to simply want what he sees as best for the ward for whom he has recently assumed responsibility. Sir Ajaj and Maria discuss the role of a father, with her saying that she has respected his wishes in not corresponding with Charles, but that she cannot regard him as a father if he forces her to marry Michial, \"compel to be miserable\" . Though Lady Teazle told Sir Ajaj earlier in the play that he should have adopted her, not married her, if he wanted to control her, Maria shows still another example of a strong female character who will protest the dynamics of gender and power within families."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Sneerwell': 'Eaden', 'Joseph': 'Michial', 'Peter': 'Ajaj', 'Rowley': 'Malone', 'Oliver': 'Tiit', 'Moses': 'Natanaele', 'Premium': 'Brae', 'Henry': 'Othell', 'OLIVEROh': 'Miciah', 'OLIVERMy': 'Siah', 'Trip': 'Shawne'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'VI': 'Amil'}}