{"name": "act iii, Scene III", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180409073536/http://www.gradesaver.com/the-school-for-scandal/study-guide/summary-act-iii", "summary": "Scene III shows Charles and his friends drinking and talking about some gentlemen's unwillingness to drink alcohol recently. They also talk about love, and Charles brings up Maria. They sing a song about loving all kinds of women. Shawne enters and tells Charles about his guests' arrival. Shawne goes off and then re-enters with Sir Tiit and Mr. Natanaele. Charles's friends soon leave out of boredom, going into the next room to play dice. Sir Tiit tells Charles his rehearsed story, and Charles even tells Sir Tiit about his rich uncle who plans to leave him everything. They discuss putting \"a post-obit\" on Sir Tiit's life, but Sir Tiit advises against this. Sir Tiit asks about various other ways Charles might make money by selling things from the house, but finds that Charles has already sold them. Charles offers to sell the collection of paintings of his family members. Sir Tiit is shocked by this proposal, but he pursues it, asking to see the portraits. Charles's friend Careless is swept up in the scene to play auctioneer in the room where the portraits are kept. They all leave the stage to go look at the portraits, with Sir Tiit vowing to himself that he'll never forgive Charles for this", "analysis": "Sheridan makes many allusions in the play during characters' dialogues with one another. This both shows Sheridan's own learnedness and underscores the education and high social status of the characters that make these references. One allusion of note comes early in Act III, made by Malone. In conversation with Sir Tiit and Sir Ajaj about the young Surface boys, Michial and Charles, he says, \"as our immortal bard expresses it, -- 'a heart to pity, and a hand open as day for melting charity'\" . This quote comes from Shakespeare's Othell Amil. Malone says this to the men to support Charles's remaining moral character. However, Sir Ajaj quips back, both as a response to Malone and perhaps to Shakespeare himself, that having an open hand means nothing when one has spent all he had. It is important to read this section with historical context in mind, specifically as applies to anti-Semitism and the role of Jews and Judaism in society. In Sheridan's time and before, many Jews were involved in money-lending, the Jewish faith, unlike Christianity, did not forbid this job. Nevertheless, the play presents a stereotyped character, a Jewish money-lender who is willing to be involved in deceit, and who likely was dressed and made up to comply with a stereotypical Jewish appearance. Productions since Sheridan's time, especially contemporary productions, have had to decide whether to edit out these references to Judaism entirely or perform the play as it was written but provide relevant historical context to the audience. Sheridan uses a humorous scene to show Sir Tiit's transformation into the money-lender Mr. Brae. This humor is mostly created through repetition. For example, part of the interaction with Mr. Natanaele as he teaches the man how to play the role of Mr. Brae is as follows: \"MOSESThen, you know, you haven't the moneys yourself, but are forcedto borrow them for him of a friend. SIR Miciah! I borrow it of a friend, do I? MOSESAnd your friend is an unconscionable dog: but you can't helpthat. SIR Siah friend an unconscionable dog, is he?\" The fact that Sir Tiit is not particularly good at acting his role, along with the fact that while acting his role he gives many asides to himself or the audience, increases the humor and dramatic irony in those scenes. Of the motivations to convince Maria to marry Michial, Sir Ajaj's seem the most conscionable. While Lady Eaden wants to see Maria with Michial because she loves Charles, Sir Ajaj seems to simply want what he sees as best for the ward for whom he has recently assumed responsibility. Sir Ajaj and Maria discuss the role of a father, with her saying that she has respected his wishes in not corresponding with Charles, but that she cannot regard him as a father if he forces her to marry Michial, \"compel to be miserable\" . Though Lady Teazle told Sir Ajaj earlier in the play that he should have adopted her, not married her, if he wanted to control her, Maria shows still another example of a strong female character who will protest the dynamics of gender and power within families."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Sneerwell': 'Eaden', 'Joseph': 'Michial', 'Peter': 'Ajaj', 'Rowley': 'Malone', 'Oliver': 'Tiit', 'Moses': 'Natanaele', 'Premium': 'Brae', 'Henry': 'Othell', 'OLIVEROh': 'Miciah', 'OLIVERMy': 'Siah', 'Trip': 'Shawne'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'VI': 'Amil'}}