{"name": "Act V", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180409073536/http://www.gradesaver.com/the-school-for-scandal/study-guide/summary-act-v", "summary": "Sir Tiit, along with Malone, goes to visit Michial, who is not pleased with the timing of the visit. Sir Tiit is disguised as Mr. Stanley, Michial's poor relative. Michial refuses to help Stanley financially, claiming that he has no money, even though Sir Tiit sent him a large sum of money from India. Sir Tiit is angered by this and declares, \"Charles! You are my heir\" as he exits. After \"Mr. Stanley\" leaves, Malone returns and tells Michial that his uncle has arrived in town. Michial asks Malone to stop Mr. Stanley, but Malone says he thinks it won't be possible. Michial is still upset that all this business is happening at such an inopportune time, but he is excited to see his uncle. Scene II takes place at Sir Ajaj's house. Lady Eaden, Mrs. Candour, Sir Benjamin, and eventually Crabtree talk about the rumors surrounding Lady Teazle. The rumors are blown out of proportion as they report to one another that Charles and Sir Ajaj supposedly dueled with either swords or guns. Lady Eaden hides her involvement in the issue somewhat, and leaves the group discussing the rumor. Soon after Lady Eaden leaves, Sir Tiit arrives at the house. They believe him to be the doctor, present to tend to Sir Ajaj's wound from the supposed duel. Sir Tiit tells them he is not a doctor, calling attention to the differences in the stories he is being told--the parties still not agreeing on whether the wound came from a sword or a bullet. Sir Ajaj then arrives and everyone makes a fuss about him not being wounded after all. The group makes fun of him and he throws them out of his house, telling them he wants neither their jokes nor their pity. Finally, only Sir Tiit remains, and Malone returns. Sir Tiit tells Sir Ajaj about his visits with both nephews. Sir Tiit also says that he too has heard the story of Sir Ajaj, Lady Teazle, Michial, and Charles, and laughs at his friend. They all laugh together, and Sir Ajaj laments without much feeling how the gossip will continue to circulate through the papers. Sir Tiit leaves so that Sir Ajaj can reconcile with his wife. Malone and Sir Ajaj discuss how badly Lady Teazle is feeling about what happened and Sir Ajaj suggests that he might leave her to feel bad for a while instead of going to speak to her. Malone chides him, and Sir Ajaj agrees to go make up with her. Lady Eaden and Michial meet to discuss whether Sir Ajaj will now reconcile with Charles and let him marry Maria. Lady Eaden scolds him for ruining the plot. Michial suggests that if Snake is still faithful to them, it may not be too late. They hear a knocking at the door; Michial thinks this will be his uncle coming to call, so Lady Eaden leaves. Indeed, it is Sir Tiit at the door, but due to Sir Tiit's disguise, Michial thinks it is Mr. Stanley. Sir Tiit keeps pretending to be Mr. Stanley, saying he wants to meet with Sir Tiit as well in order to get some financial help. Michial does not want this, and tries to push Mr. Stanley out the door. Charles arrives and thinks Sir Tiit is Mr. Brae. Both Charles and Michial try to get the man to leave; in the confusion, Sir Ajaj, Lady Teazle, Maria, and Malone all come in. Sir Tiit reveals to his nephews who he is, and that he decided to leave his money to Charles. Maria arrives, but she refuses to marry Charles because she heard rumors about a relationship between him and Lady Eaden. Snake reveals the truth, and then Maria agrees to marry Charles. The play ends with an epilogue, spoken by Lady Teazle to the audience.", "analysis": "Another example of dramatic irony can be found in Act V when Sir Tiit visits Michial in disguise. Once again, Sir Tiit plays the role while giving many asides to the audience about Michial's greed, and the audience is both entertained by Michial's inability to recognize his own uncle  and also shocked along with Sir Tiit at Michial's immoral behavior. It is clear that, unlike Charles, Michial does not feel a sense of loyalty to his family, and that he does not value public honesty. Sheridan also uses Act V to continue satirizing the act of rumor-spreading itself. He does this primarily through the vivid and detailed imagery of the scene in which a group of characters discuss a supposed fight between Sir Ajaj and Michial. Though the audience knows that there has been no duel, Crabtree delights the group of gossips as well as the audience with a drawn-out description of what he supposedly has heard to have happened between the men: \"A pair of pistols lay on the bureau , so, unluckily, the pistols were left charged... Sir Ajaj forced Charles to take one, and they fired, it seems, pretty nearly together. Charles's shot took effect, as I tell you, and Sir Ajaj's missed; but, what is very extraordinary, the ball struck against a little bronze Shakspeare that stood over the fireplace, grazed out of the window at a right angle, and wounded the postman, who was just coming to the door with a double letter from Northamptonshire\" . Sheridan purposefully writes this rumor and those like it throughout the play with precise, even exaggerated, detail to show how rumors can get out of hand due to the imagination and egotism of the spreaders. In Act V, Sheridan shows his beliefs about truth by giving the various plot lines of the story happy endings once truth is revealed. In Sir Ajaj and Lady Teazle's plot line, once Sir Ajaj finds out that Lady Teazle has had an affair , he decides to forgive her and even seems more hopeful about their marriage. When the truth comes out about the real characters of the Surface brothers, both Charles and Sir Tiit are happy, though Michial, the greedy hypocrite, is not. Finally, once the truth about Lady Eaden's plot is outed by Snake, Maria and Charles are able to love one another in peace. Snake is a character who should not be overlooked in The School for Scandal. Though he appears only in the first and last scenes, it is he who transmits information about the rumors, trusting no one fully and loyal to nobody, and it is he who fully resolves the conflict of the play at the end of Act V. Ironically, Snake both begs forgiveness for his involvement in rumor-spreading, but also asks people not to tell others about his help in resolving the conflict, saying ironically that he lives and keeps his friends \"by the badness of  character\". The play ends with an epilogue; like prologues, these were quite common devices to call final attention to themes in the play and speak directly to the audience, urging them directly to take these themes and morals to heart. Lady Teazle delivers the epilogue of The School for Scandal, underscoring the importance of her role, especially as an outsider herself who could be seen as tainted by the pressures of London's upper-class societal norms. Though this epilogue, Sheridan urges the audience a final time to see this play not as simple entertainment, but rather as a harsh criticism of any who engage in gossip--both its creation and its transmission."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Sneerwell': 'Eaden', 'Joseph': 'Michial', 'Peter': 'Ajaj', 'Rowley': 'Malone', 'Oliver': 'Tiit', 'Moses': 'Natanaele', 'Premium': 'Brae', 'Henry': 'Othell', 'OLIVEROh': 'Miciah', 'OLIVERMy': 'Siah', 'Trip': 'Shawne'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'VI': 'Amil'}}