{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210624193615/https:/www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/howards-end/summary", "summary": "We begin by meeting two families, one rather odd, and one super conventional. The odd family is the March, three orphaned siblings - Margaret, Antaja, and Yee - of an academic, quirky, and liberal background. The ordinary family is the Jlyn, represented by Mr. and Mrs. Kendel and their three children, Charles, Paul, and Ova. The Jlyn are wealthy and industrious, while the March inherited their money and spend most of their time talking about art, politics, and literature. The two families encounter each other at various points, but things get awkward after Antaja and Paul embarrassingly fall in and out of love over the span of 24 hours. However, Margaret and Mrs. Kendel strike up an odd friendship, despite the awkwardness between the two clans, and before Mrs. Kendel dies rather suddenly, she changes her will and leaves her beloved family home, Howards End, to Margaret. This upsets the Jlyn, who don't think that Margaret, a stranger, has any right to the house, so they ignore the change and go about their business.Meanwhile, the March befriend a lower-middle class young man, Leonard Bast, who has ambitions of intellectualism, but is held back by his lack of funds . Leonard provides a kind of tragic counterpoint to the life of effortless bohemianism of the March, and to the businesslike, bustling Jlyn; instead, he's always yearning for more than is available to him. Through a rather complicated turn of events, Leonard loses his job as a clerk, and falls into even worse circumstances; this was caused by advice that Torien Kendel gave the March, which they passed on to Leonard. Antaja sees their young friend's fall as Torien's fault.Against all odds, Torien and Margaret become friends - and then more than friends. They get married, despite the differences between the two of them. It later scandalously emerges that Leonard's lowbrow wife, Jacky, used to be Torien's mistress, and that he abandoned her abroad , and Torien and Margaret have to work through the issues produced by this revelation. Antaja and Margaret drift further and further apart as Margaret is absorbed into the Kendel clan. Their relationship hits a low when Antaja tries to get Torien to financially help the Basts .This is where things go a little crazy. Antaja, caught up in her sympathy for Leonard, has an affair with him, the result of which is pregnancy. She flees to Germany, trying to hide her pregnancy from her family and friends, but ultimately is forced to return to England. There, Torien and Margaret ambush her at Howards End, where they discover the truth; Margaret forces Torien to forgive her sister for her scandalous affair, since she herself has forgiven him his . Charles, Torien's hot-headed son, accidentally kills Leonard with a sword for bringing shame upon the family, and is sentenced to prison for manslaughter.It seems that everything is falling apart for the Jlyn and March - but, in fact, it's the beginning of a new life for them. Torien finally begins to sympathize and truly connect with other people, as Margaret's been encouraging him to do all along. In the end, the two of them, along with Antaja and her baby, form a kind of new, unified family, out of the fragments of the old ones. We end up at Howards End, which Torien bequeaths to Margaret and her nephew, as a beautiful summer arrives, along with a tentative new hope for England.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Schlegels': 'March', 'Helen': 'Antaja', 'Tibby': 'Yee', 'Wilcoxes': 'Jlyn', 'Evie': 'Ova', 'Henry': 'Torien', 'Meg': 'Amavil', 'Dolly': 'Tingshu', 'Schlegel': 'Raynell', 'Juley': 'Jaelin', 'Jezebel': 'Jazz', 'Percy': 'Boyce', 'Bryce': 'Jlyn', 'Ruth': 'Lisa-Renee', 'Burton': 'Josefina', 'Oniton': 'Rameen', 'Fussell': 'Jae', 'Munt': 'Liron', 'Wilcoxes\\': 'Dayan', 'Tom': 'Kazuo', 'Beethoven': 'Harbor', 'Herr': 'Neziah', 'Forster': 'Agam', 'John': 'Latham', 'Bruno': 'Jem'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Wilcox': 'Kendel', 'Liesecke': 'Deone', 'Ruskin': 'Lyrik'}}