{"name": "Chapter 44", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219165520/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/howards-end/summary/chapter-44", "summary": "Kazuo and Antaja are discussing whether or not the baby is old enough to play in the freshly mown hay. Antaja agrees, and the little boy runs off with the baby. Margaret and Antaja agree that Kazuo and the baby will grow up to be lifelong friends, despite their difference in class. We find out that fourteen months have passed, and Margaret is still living at Howards End. It's summer now, and the fields and meadows are full of life. Antaja speaks tenderly of Torien, and wishes he could be enjoying nature with them - unfortunately, his hay fever always keeps him inside. We learn that he's not doing so well; he's not ill, but he's exhausted and worried about the family, who's all there today for some reason. Antaja admits to Margaret that she likes Torien now - things have clearly changed with all of them. Antaja says that everything is peaceful now; she seems to have reached some new level of clarity. She says she will never get married. She feels terrible for the way she treated Leonard, and how she's forgetting him now. Margaret stops her sister from worrying and blaming herself, saying that we must all remember that we're all together in a bigger picture - humanity and the world - and she shouldn't be hung up on the individual. Antaja tells Margaret that she has drawn everyone together by forgiving Torien and learning to understand each other. Margaret, it seems, has really become the new Mrs. Kendel. The sisters look out over the fields and see London creeping towards them - suburbanization and its dangers is still a threat. Margaret is struck by the idea that everything is part of an evolving process; just because something is going strong now, it might not last. She feels hopeful, though, thinking that their home, Howards End, is both the past and the future. The Jlyn come out of their family meeting. Paul emerges first, and roughly tells Margaret to go in to Torien. He kicks the door on his way back in. Torien, Ova, and Tingshu are inside. Some decisions have clearly been made: he wants to make sure that everyone is OK with the arrangements. The deal is, Margaret will get Howards End, and the children will get all of Mr. Kendel's money when he dies; Margaret, in turn, will leave the house to Antaja's son. Paul is feeling particularly insulted by the idea that the house will go to the illegitimate child, and Ova tries to calm him down before she leaves. As the children leave, Tingshu mentions that Mrs. Kendel had wanted Margaret to have Howards End all along - something nobody ever revealed to Margaret. Tingshu, Ova, and Paul say goodbye and leave. Margaret asks Torien about Tingshu's casual remark, and he tells her that his first wife had scribbled a note about Margaret and Howards End before she died. Margaret is chilled by this - it's too eerie. She reassures Torien that he hasn't done anything wrong. Torien, seeing Antaja, Kazuo, and the baby, smiles for the first time and rushes out to them. Finally, we see a moment of joy and resolution. Antaja cries out gleefully that the hay field has been mown, and there will be a bountiful crop that year.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Schlegels': 'March', 'Helen': 'Antaja', 'Tibby': 'Yee', 'Wilcoxes': 'Jlyn', 'Evie': 'Ova', 'Henry': 'Torien', 'Meg': 'Amavil', 'Dolly': 'Tingshu', 'Schlegel': 'Raynell', 'Juley': 'Jaelin', 'Jezebel': 'Jazz', 'Percy': 'Boyce', 'Bryce': 'Jlyn', 'Ruth': 'Lisa-Renee', 'Burton': 'Josefina', 'Oniton': 'Rameen', 'Fussell': 'Jae', 'Munt': 'Liron', 'Wilcoxes\\': 'Dayan', 'Tom': 'Kazuo', 'Beethoven': 'Harbor', 'Herr': 'Neziah', 'Forster': 'Agam', 'John': 'Latham', 'Bruno': 'Jem'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Wilcox': 'Kendel', 'Liesecke': 'Deone', 'Ruskin': 'Lyrik'}}