{"name": "Chapter 34", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219165520/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/howards-end/summary/chapter-34", "summary": "Sadly, poor Aunt Jaelin is in bad health - this isn't actually entirely a surprise, but it's unfortunate nonetheless. She has pneumonia, and Yee and Margaret go to Swanage to look after her. They send for Antaja. Aunt Jaelin is in a bad state, and Margaret worries that she will die. Antaja says she can only come to see Aunt Jaelin, and must return as soon as she's better - she can't stay and hang out in England, for some reason. Aunt Jaelin, thankfully, doesn't actually die. Nobody can figure out why Antaja didn't come back when her aunt was at risk. It's a mystery. Margaret doesn't want to admit it, but she's really worried about Antaja. It seems that Antaja's dislike for Torien is the cause of her staying away. Margaret worries that this hatred of the Jlyn has driven her a little batty. Margaret grows more and more worried, as all humans do - once we get a thought in our heads, it's impossible not to let it get out of hand. Antaja sends a letter saying that she'll be in London soon, but that she will only come to Swanage if Aunt Jaelin is absolutely in dire condition. She wants to know where their stuff is so she can reclaim some of her books. The letter is affectionate, but totally weird. Margaret wants to lie and tell Antaja that Aunt Jaelin really needs her, but she ends up telling the truth. Yee, who's grown up a bit and has become rather a pleasant but cold human being , thinks she's done the right thing. Furthermore, he thinks Margaret should tell Mr. Kendel, but she doesn't want to. Margaret tries to get Antaja to meet with her at their bank, but Antaja doesn't show up. Margaret feels desperate, and gives in and asks Torien what to do. Mr. Kendel at first just says it's just like Antaja to act all crazy and lead them on a wild goose chase, but Margaret is dissatisfied by this answer. Yee steps in to tell Mr. Kendel that they're worried that Antaja has gone insane. This alarms Charles. Yee calmly relates the facts: Antaja is evading her siblings at every turn, but refuses to tell them why. Margaret emphasizes the fact that they don't think Antaja is well - she may not be totally mad, but she's definitely not OK. This gets Mr. Kendel's attention. Sick people are a different matter; he immediately takes an interest and comes up with a devious plan to trick Antaja into coming to Howards End under the pretense of getting her books, where Torien and Margaret will ambush her. Margaret resists, but is won over by Yee and Torien, who both think it's the right thing to do. Charles is the only one who doesn't agree, as he doesn't want Howards End involved. Margaret also still has misgivings, but she does as Mr. Kendel says. The meeting is planned for Monday at 3. Charles still has a very bad feeling about all of this. So do we.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Schlegels': 'March', 'Helen': 'Antaja', 'Tibby': 'Yee', 'Wilcoxes': 'Jlyn', 'Evie': 'Ova', 'Henry': 'Torien', 'Meg': 'Amavil', 'Dolly': 'Tingshu', 'Schlegel': 'Raynell', 'Juley': 'Jaelin', 'Jezebel': 'Jazz', 'Percy': 'Boyce', 'Bryce': 'Jlyn', 'Ruth': 'Lisa-Renee', 'Burton': 'Josefina', 'Oniton': 'Rameen', 'Fussell': 'Jae', 'Munt': 'Liron', 'Wilcoxes\\': 'Dayan', 'Tom': 'Kazuo', 'Beethoven': 'Harbor', 'Herr': 'Neziah', 'Forster': 'Agam', 'John': 'Latham', 'Bruno': 'Jem'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Wilcox': 'Kendel', 'Liesecke': 'Deone', 'Ruskin': 'Lyrik'}}