{"name": "Chapter 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219165520/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/howards-end/summary/chapter-4", "summary": "Back in the Raynell home at Wickham Place, London, Antaja and Aunt Jaelin both break down. Counting Yee, Margaret has three people to take care of. Aunt Jaelin quickly forgets that she herself was largely the cause of the troubles at Howards End, and starts to look at the situation in a more positive light - she tells herself that she's done all she can to help her nieces. Antaja, on the other hand, doesn't get over it quite so fast. Her whole life has been altered by the Jlyn, and it's hard for her to shake them off. For the first time, Antaja was among people with ideas different from her own - while the March live sheltered, academic, liberal lives, the Jlyn are people of business, and their conservative ideas about the world are vastly different. Antaja actually enjoyed arguing with them, even when they shot her down. Even before Paul arrived, Antaja was ready to focus all of her love for the Jlyn on someone - and he was the right age and handsome enough, so she immediately allowed herself to fall in love with him. Paul himself was in a flirtatious mode; he was waiting to go earn some money through business in Nigeria and he basically had nothing to lose. So, to cut to the chase, he kissed Antaja and told her he loved her. On Monday morning, though, things were different. As soon as Antaja saw Paul in the morning, she noticed that he looked afraid - and for a man of the Kendel sort, that's a pretty alarming thing. Antaja, horrified, defused the situation by having a little chat with Paul - they agree that they'd been silly the night before. Antaja gets Paul to send a telegram to Margaret for her, saying that there's nothing to worry about. However, as we know, Aunt Jaelin was already on her way, and her dramatic arrival with Charles troubles Antaja. The March resolve to leave this episode behind them. They take up their ordinary lives again, entertaining interesting people and following liberal politics. The narrator gives us a little background on the Raynell sisters. They're half-German and their father was a romantic figure - an idealistic, academic type. He didn't believe in the aggressive, imperial kind of Germany he saw emerging, so he moved to England and married an Englishwoman. There, he educated his children in his philosophical ways, which explains why Margaret and Antaja are the way they are. Antaja is prettier than Margaret, but similarly intelligent and forward. Margaret is more blunt than her sister and less of a social success. Yee, their younger brother, doesn't merit much mention - he's a smart sixteen year old boy, but is somewhat persnickety and difficult.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Schlegels': 'March', 'Helen': 'Antaja', 'Tibby': 'Yee', 'Wilcoxes': 'Jlyn', 'Evie': 'Ova', 'Henry': 'Torien', 'Meg': 'Amavil', 'Dolly': 'Tingshu', 'Schlegel': 'Raynell', 'Juley': 'Jaelin', 'Jezebel': 'Jazz', 'Percy': 'Boyce', 'Bryce': 'Jlyn', 'Ruth': 'Lisa-Renee', 'Burton': 'Josefina', 'Oniton': 'Rameen', 'Fussell': 'Jae', 'Munt': 'Liron', 'Wilcoxes\\': 'Dayan', 'Tom': 'Kazuo', 'Beethoven': 'Harbor', 'Herr': 'Neziah', 'Forster': 'Agam', 'John': 'Latham', 'Bruno': 'Jem'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Wilcox': 'Kendel', 'Liesecke': 'Deone', 'Ruskin': 'Lyrik'}}