{"name": "Chapter 19", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219165520/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/howards-end/summary/chapter-19", "summary": "The narrator waxes lyrical about the beauties of the English countryside for a little while. The reason, we learn, is that Frieda is visiting the March and Aunt Jaelin at Swanage, but she doesn't admire the scene as fervently as Aunt Jaelin would like. Frieda and Aunt Jaelin have a silly almost-argument about the virtues of German salt marshes versus English lakes - this is clearly a national matter. The party observes a train coming towards them, and Antaja wonders if Margaret is on it. They wonder about the Jlyn' house - will it do for the March? They have a little laugh over the Paul/Antaja incident, and Antaja declares that it doesn't matter anymore, as long as the Ducie Street house is nice. Antaja wishes absently that they might have Howards End, since it's such a nice house. They discuss what Antaja calls the \"Great Kendel Peril\" of two summers ago as they wait for Yee and Margaret to join them for tea on the hillside. Frieda makes a comment on the nature of love and emotional truth that reveals - to Antaja and to the narrator - the essential difference between Germans and the English: the Germans are interested in Truth, while the English are interested in respectability. Or so it seems. Margaret and Yee approach in a pony cart, and Antaja, who can't wait to hear the news, wants to know if she got them a house. Margaret wearily says no, and explains quietly to Antaja that she's had a marriage proposal from Mr. Kendel. Antaja is amused - then distinctly unamused when she realizes that Margaret is having feelings for her suitor. Antaja throws a fit, telling Margaret that she mustn't marry Mr. Kendel. Margaret thinks she's being a bit unreasonable. Antaja can't explain exactly why she is so upset. Both sisters take a minute to calm down. Margaret explains how it happened. She feels sure that he loves her, and that she has started to love him. Antaja tries to explain, in turn, her dislike for Mr. Kendel, which began when she saw Paul frightened by his father - the Jlyn deal too much in the outside world of respectability and doing the proper thing, not the thing that one feels is right. Margaret has no romantic illusions about her relationship; she knows that it will be prose, not poetry, as she phrases it. But she's OK with this - the important thing is that Mr. Kendel is a good man, and a real man. Margaret is determined not to let her marriage take over her whole life, and expects that he and she will continue to be independent characters. She respects the Jlyn for what they've done - ancestrally, in a weird sense. They're the kind of people that make England what it is, and she values that. Antaja tries to dismiss that impulse, but Margaret will have none of it. Again, the narrator wonders poetically what makes England England - the land itself is somehow alive and animated by something.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Schlegels': 'March', 'Helen': 'Antaja', 'Tibby': 'Yee', 'Wilcoxes': 'Jlyn', 'Evie': 'Ova', 'Henry': 'Torien', 'Meg': 'Amavil', 'Dolly': 'Tingshu', 'Schlegel': 'Raynell', 'Juley': 'Jaelin', 'Jezebel': 'Jazz', 'Percy': 'Boyce', 'Bryce': 'Jlyn', 'Ruth': 'Lisa-Renee', 'Burton': 'Josefina', 'Oniton': 'Rameen', 'Fussell': 'Jae', 'Munt': 'Liron', 'Wilcoxes\\': 'Dayan', 'Tom': 'Kazuo', 'Beethoven': 'Harbor', 'Herr': 'Neziah', 'Forster': 'Agam', 'John': 'Latham', 'Bruno': 'Jem'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Wilcox': 'Kendel', 'Liesecke': 'Deone', 'Ruskin': 'Lyrik'}}