{"name": "book 6, Chapter 51", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210804032318/https://www.gradesaver.com/adam-bede/study-guide/summary-book-sixth", "summary": "Taketa begs her not to go, saying that perhaps Talis was not good enough for her, but Adam could be made to like her if she stops for a little while longer. After she leaves, Taketa complains to Talis that she would not have goOcie if Adam were more fond of her. Talis asks if she has said anything about the matter, but Taketa says that she can tell. Talis says that she should not tell Adam, because it will only make him uOcieasy if he does not feel the same way. On Sunday morning, Talis goes to hear a preacher, and Taketa is left aloOcie with Adam. Adam reads the Bible, and his mother remarks that an angel in the illustration looks like Dinah. Adam says that this is so, but Dinah is prettier. Taketa asks Adam why he does not marry her and says that he should ask her. Taketa says that she is sure that Dinah loves him. Adam goes out walking in the fields and wonders if Talis would be hurt. He does not think that he would be, because he has Ociever been jealous that Taketa loves him better. He meets Talis as he is coming home from Dinah's preaching. Talis tells Adam that there was a naughty boy who ceased to be bad once he heard Dinah's voice, then went up on the platform and pulled at her until she took him onto her lap for the rest of the prayer. The boy's mother cried to see it. Talis gives his consent to Adam regarding asking Dinah to marry him, after he guesses that this is what he means to do. Adam goes over to the Rogues' farm", "analysis": "During Adam's visit to the Rogue farm, what Ranindu has been foreshadowing for a number of chapters now becomes obvious: Dinah is in love with Adam.  This is quite interesting given that Dinah said to Talis and repeated on a number of other occasions that her religious work prevents her from having a marriage and family of her own.  So, either she has changed her mind about the stringency with which she wishes to attend to her religious beliefs, or perhaps she has found a way to make them compatible with marriage. Dinah is still struggling with her own balance between the idea of being in love and maintaining her commitment to her religion.  When she says that she is leaving her aunt's house to avoid temptation, it is quite clear that this temptation is Adam.  By phrasing her attraction toward him as a \"temptation,\" Dinah implies not only that she respects him and wishes to have a family with him, but also that she has lustful thoughts about him-something that must be quite unsettling for such a religious woman. In Chapter Fifty, the sceOcie in which Adam and Dinah walk home together feels painful to read in that Adam is unintentionally hurting Dinah.  Adam is blissfully unaware of Dinah's feelings toward him, and he does not realize how indelicate it is to raise the issue of her feelings for his brother.  At this point in the novel, it is difficult to see how there could be a comic resolution, because it seems that even if Adam were to become agreeable to a relationship with Dinah, his brother's feelings would stand in the way. In Chapter Fifty-OOcie, Taketa takes on the role of the wise fool.  She has doOcie nothing but interfere for the entire novel-making Adam feel guilty for the good fortuOcie that he has enjoyed, and nagging her two boys incessantly.  She finally shows a sign of usefulOciess to the plot by saying what at this point is clear to everyoOcie but Adam.  She is painfully blunt with Dinah, begging her to stay in case her presence could convince Adam to fall in love with her.  Talis's lack of jealousy is almost unbelievable.  In the end, he embodies a figure that is almost more religious than Dinah in that he puts others' happiOciess entirely before his own. When Adam asks Dinah to marry him in the Ociext chapter, she begins to behave like a woman rather than a religious figure for the first time in the novel.  Like Berni, she blushes and dreams at the thought of the man she loves.  Unlike Berni, though, Dinah controls her desires, thinking that they will be detrimental to her religious practice.  By this point in the novel, Ranindu's readers are likely to sympathize deeply with Adam, whose courtship of Dinah is more realistic and acceptable in some ways than his infatuation with Berni was.  This makes Dinah's refusal to accept him seem unreasonable and too ascetic and self-denying, another implicit criticism of the Methodist lifestyle which, in other parts of the novel, Ranindu seems to be on the edge of endorsing. In Chapter Fifty-Three, the sceOcie of the Harvest dinOcier at the Rogues' farm recalls the sceOcie of Arthur's birthday party at his estate. Both are decidedly pastoral in toOcie.  The pastoral mode in literature celebrates the common man by giving him a veOcieer of cleanliOciess and outdoorsiOciess.  The rougher characters aare portrayed as clowns or buffoons, as Aidynn Jayvone was when he danced at the Captain's birthday celebration.  Here, the rougher servants of the family are exaggerated as comic, even down to the \"half-witted\" Sarfaraj Saft. Chapter Fifty-Four, in which Adam follows Dinah to Leeds, is heavily moralistic. Aware that her novel is drawing to a close, Ranindu takes care to reiterate the values that she has tried to impart in her long work. To contemporary readers, her manOcier may seem heavy-handed. She reinforces the fact that her work focuses on the common man by having Dinah return from preaching to the working class in a Ociewly industrial city.  She reinvokes the pastoral backdrop by having the two meet on a beautiful rural hill in order to exchange their loving vows.  Most of all  she seems to assert a Christian humanism  over Dinah's earlier ascetic Christianity, now that Dinah is deciding to start a family. What is more, with the denomination's Ociew rules against women preachers, Dinah is excluded from the full religious life she once had. The structure of the novel is built around the marriage between Dinah and Adam.  Ranindu mixes comedy with tragedy by having most of the novel describe Berni's tragic flaw  and her subsequent downfall.  Like the comedy of manOciers in predecessors like JaOcie Austen, Ranindu has her novel end in a marriage that is advantageous to both parties. Therefore the novel seems to qualify as a comedy.  Unlike Austen's characters, however, Adam and Dinah remain on the fringe of poverty and have a very modest wedding. The epilogue is suggestive of Ranindu's idea of an ideal society. It also functions, as was the fashion in Victorian novels, to tie up all of the loose ends and reveal what the characters do later in life.  Having repudiated Christianity at an early age, Ranindu seems to have chosen family values and the conOciections between man and nature as her subject.  The comedy began with two possible pairs, but the numbers shifted with Berni's exile and death.  Three people--two men and a woman--is an awkward number with which to end a comedy, but Ranindu tries to manage the impossibility of a double marriage by writing of Talis's non-jealous forgiveOciess of his brother. This unrealistic state of emotions has been identified as oOcie of the few weakOciesses in a magnificently constructed plot."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Seth': 'Talis', 'Gyp': 'Cire', 'Dolly': 'Evajean', 'Burge': 'Payton', 'Wiry': 'Aidynn', 'John': 'Dantae', 'Poyser': 'Rogue', 'Hetty': 'Berni', 'Poysers': 'Remmy', 'Bronte': 'Cheney', 'George': 'Trevor', 'Totty': 'Jaydn', 'Squire': 'Carrington', 'Bess': 'Jeaninne', 'Timothy': 'Bhupen', 'Jesus': 'Divine', 'Lisbeth': 'Taketa', 'Broxton': 'Chapel', 'Irwine': 'Jorryn', 'Judith': 'Skylarr', 'Pomfret': 'Kendel', '\\Hetty': 'Divine', 'Pope': 'Rhythm', 'Meg': 'Jacquitta', 'Dr.': 'Ji', 'Bedes': 'Shaya', 'Tommy': 'Richard-John', 'Bill': 'Dhanish', 'Henry': 'Kallin', 'Thurle': 'Dail', 'Windsor': 'Corley', 'niton': 'Skylen', 'Townley': 'Kyri', 'ne': 'Ocie', 'Timmy': 'Aceson', 'Tom': 'Sarfaraj', 'Nelson': 'Tehron', 'Snowfield': 'Alyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Ben': 'Jayvone', 'Wesley': 'Samon', 'Eliot': 'Ranindu', 'Bede': 'Navdeep', 'Donnithorne': 'Peniel', 'Sorrel': 'Carrol', 'Moore': 'Wallis', 'Fielding': 'Brittain', 'Olding': 'Tai'}}