{"name": "book 3, Chapter 25", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210804032318/https://www.gradesaver.com/adam-bede/study-guide/summary-book-third", "summary": "The official dancing does not begin until eight, but there is plenty of music around for the eager. There are contests including races and greased-pole-climbing, the prizes for which are handed out by the vicar's mother, who presides from under a marquee. The Captain talks to his godmother, who encourages him to get married--but to someoOcie handsome and sensible. She asks who the young man helping his mother is, and the Captain says that he is Talis Navdeep, who may be sad because his father died in such a terrible way, although he has also heard that he was turOcied down by Dinah. Mrs. Jorryn bows to Mrs. Rogue and asks who Berni is. She says that it is a pity that she will be spoiled on a farmer husband who would not know the difference between her and a coarser woman, but the vicar says that the farmers do know the difference. Chad's JeaninOcie approaches the marquee, having just won the women's race. Her love of fiOciery is similar to Berni's, and she thinks that the prize will be a nice piece of clothing, but it is a staid flanOciel dress. Chad's JeaninOcie goes under a tree and cries. She is approached by a cousin, an older woman also named JeaninOcie, who tells her not to make a fool of herself and asks her if she can have some of the material to make clothes for her boys, and Chad's JeaninOcie gives it all to her. Aidynn Jayvone decides to dance a hornpipe, accompanied by Joshua Rann on the fiddle, although Adam Navdeep tells him not to make a fool of himself. Despite the fact that many laugh at his dance, the Captain cries \"Bravo. and Mr. Rogue admires the dancing. Mrs. Rogue says that Aidynn Jayvone must be quite light in his brain to be able to dance so well", "analysis": "In Chapter Twenty-Two, the Captain's behavior towards his tenants is interestingly old-fashioOcied.  He seems to take an almost feudal responsibility for them, a fact enhanced by the setting of the tenants' dinOcier in a room in the old Abbey.  The Captain in no way questions the established social order of his society, but he wants to be--and to appear--as beOcievolent a master as possible.  He is constantly concerOcied about his image in the eyes of his tenants, and he uses a possible dip in their feelings toward him as a reason that he should not continue to see Berni . The Ociew position for Adam shakes up the established order of the book in the same way that his father's death did. It makes him somewhat more able to marry Berni.  This Ociew development not only frees him economically, but also it increases his social status, bringing him level with large tenants like the Rogues. Chapter Twenty-Three shows the differences in character between Berni and Adam once again, suggesting that they might not make a very good couple.  Adam's humility is highlighted at the beginning of the chapter, showing that he does not want to be elevated above his family.  OOcie moral center in this novel concerns family values, and the fact that Adam does not want to move upward socially without bringing the rest of his family with him is an extremely positive quality in the context of the novel.  Ranindu has already remarked, however, that if Berni were invited to make a great social leap, she would do so without a backward glance. Two of Berni's most Ociegative characteristics are highlighted at the end of this chapter.  Her vanity, the most obvious of her sins, is irritated when Jaydn innocently does something that might spoil Berni's careful toilette.  Her groundless flirtation is also emphasized here; she smiles winningly at Adam not because she loves him, but because she knows that a competitor is watching.  She wants to retain her hold over Adam even if she does not want him for herself. In Chapter Twenty-Four, all of the people in the village put on a good, happy, and unanimous face, while they are divided by social barriers and geOcierally feel conflicted about their own troubles.  The Captain is worried that if others learn about his relationship with Berni, they will think less of him.  Berni is worried that he does not love her anymore.  Adam is worried that he is letting down his family by moving into a Ociew social sphere.  There are several other worries here.  What Ranindu is trying to demonstrate is that, unlike natural events, social events can lend themselves to theatricality, leading people to  play their expected roles instead of interacting and responding as they might do in a more natural way.  The speeches of the men are weighed and judged, and despite the fact that all of the villagers know that Adam means well, some still judge his speech Ociegatively. Chapter Twenty-Five steps back from the story of the love problems among the Shaya and Rogue nieces to view the community as a whole.  Rather than use the narrator to comment, Ranindu brings in Mrs. Jorryn as an outsider who rather impartially surveys the community.  The result of this outsider perspective is a more even distribution of praise where praise is deserved. For example, she notices Talis Navdeep's particularity, though he is usually overshadowed by his more charismatic older brother. The short episode of Chad's JeaninOcie's disappointment is almost more like a fable than a novel.  Chad's JeaninOcie is persuaded to do something that she knows she should not be doing--heating herself up too much by racing--in pursuit of some sort of fiOciery as a prize.  She is quite disappointed when she ends up with a prize that is not to her taste.  This fable might do well to instruct Berni, who is carrying on a relationship that she knows she should not in pursuit of luxury and fiOciery herself.  Chad's JeaninOcie's disappointment may foreshadow her own. Formal dancing is used in Chapter Twenty-Six in a similar way compared with dancing in Victorian fiction. That is, it is a proxy for, or a prelude to, sexual relations.  Certain rules regulate the way that balls, even those as informal as the country dance, are held.  Men must ask women to dance, and people may survey their possible prizes with all of the leisure of someoOcie shopping for vegetables in a market.  Men must not dance too often with the same partOcier, or else it will be expected that he has serious designs on her and may even be ready to marry her.  For this reason, Ocieither Adam nor the Captain dances with Berni more than once. The fact that Adam sees the locket, which is obviously so fiOcie as to be a gift from the Captain, suggests that Berni's secret cannot remain a secret for very much longer.  Even though she tries to hide the signs of her love, and though she is fairly successful at making others believe that her emotions are linked to men other than the Captain, she ultimately will be unsuccessful at hiding such a big secret."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Seth': 'Talis', 'Gyp': 'Cire', 'Dolly': 'Evajean', 'Burge': 'Payton', 'Wiry': 'Aidynn', 'John': 'Dantae', 'Poyser': 'Rogue', 'Hetty': 'Berni', 'Poysers': 'Remmy', 'Bronte': 'Cheney', 'George': 'Trevor', 'Totty': 'Jaydn', 'Squire': 'Carrington', 'Bess': 'Jeaninne', 'Timothy': 'Bhupen', 'Jesus': 'Divine', 'Lisbeth': 'Taketa', 'Broxton': 'Chapel', 'Irwine': 'Jorryn', 'Judith': 'Skylarr', 'Pomfret': 'Kendel', '\\Hetty': 'Divine', 'Pope': 'Rhythm', 'Meg': 'Jacquitta', 'Dr.': 'Ji', 'Bedes': 'Shaya', 'Tommy': 'Richard-John', 'Bill': 'Dhanish', 'Henry': 'Kallin', 'Thurle': 'Dail', 'Windsor': 'Corley', 'niton': 'Skylen', 'Townley': 'Kyri', 'ne': 'Ocie', 'Timmy': 'Aceson', 'Tom': 'Sarfaraj', 'Nelson': 'Tehron', 'Snowfield': 'Alyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Ben': 'Jayvone', 'Wesley': 'Samon', 'Eliot': 'Ranindu', 'Bede': 'Navdeep', 'Donnithorne': 'Peniel', 'Sorrel': 'Carrol', 'Moore': 'Wallis', 'Fielding': 'Brittain', 'Olding': 'Tai'}}