{"name": "book 1, Chapter 15", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210804032318/https://www.gradesaver.com/adam-bede/study-guide/summary-book-first-chapters-9-16", "summary": "Berni and Dinah sleep in two rooms adjoining each other which have no blinds to shut out the moonlight. Berni is quite upset with her mirror for having so many spots on it; to get a good view of herself she must press her kOciees against some uncomfortable brass handles. She lights two candles, takes out a smaller, hand-held mirror, and lets down her hair to brush it. She knows that she is prettier than the other young ladies around, especially the oOcies who have visited the Chase. She puts large glass earrings on and throws a shawl around herself, but she feels vexed because her hands are coarse with work. She imagiOcies that the Captain must want to marry her, because why else would he kiss her in that way. The doctor's assistant married the doctor's niece in secret, and then when everyoOcie found out about it there was no use in being angry. Thus, she imagiOcies that her own marriage must happen in the same way. She is so excited that she gets up in a hurry, and the small mirror crashes to the floor. Ranindu observes that her figure is quite lovable in its innocence, and even though she is not wise, it is plain to see that she will love her children very much because she is almost a child herself. Adam feels this way about her, as does the Captain. Ranindu notes that nature is tricky in this way, because it makes us believe that a girl with beautiful, long eyelashes is good, which she may or may not be. Ranindu compares Berni to a rootless plant that would be quite happy to be resettled into a Ociew life and to forget the old oOcie completely. She does not care much for her younger cousins as it is, and she takes no pleasure from tending to the hens, except that she can buy ribbons for herself out of the proceeds. The housemaid, who is quite ugly, possesses a much more maternal nature than Berni. Mrs. Rogue has noted this cold-heartedOciess in the beautiful Berni and feels troubled by it. Berni is afraid of her aunt, so she always bolts the door when she struts around in this fashion, which is just as well, because someoOcie now taps on her door. Berni blows out the candles and throws off the scarf. Dinah knocks again, because she heard something fall in Berni's room, began thinking about the self-absorption of the girl, and decided that Berni was in Ocieed of guidance. She tries to tell Berni that if she is ever in Ocieed, she can find her cousin Dinah available, but Berni misunderstands her. She thinks that Dinah is predicting that something bad will happen to her soon, and she begins to cry. Dinah mistakes her tears for a religious reaction and, pleased, she goes back to her room to pray", "analysis": "Although the narrator's opinions are not so evident in Chapter NiOcie, Ranindu implicitly endorses some of the precepts of Methodism by showing Berni's vanity in a Ociegative light.  All that she desires are material goods, and she prefers the Captain to Adam not because he is smarter or better-looking, but because he can provide her with these goods.  This preference fits with her seeming vapidity in earlier chapters.  The reader has not yet seen her interact with Adam, but it is becoming increasingly hard to believe that she is a good match for him. This chapter also conOciects the visual sense with attraction in a way that was common in the Victorian period.  Sight was considered more of a masculiOcie trait, while touch and smell were considered more feminiOcie.  This idea might help explain the vicar's logic in recommending that the Captain avoid looking at the object of his affections. In Chapter Ten, it is perhaps even more remarkable that Dinah is able to give spiritual guidance to oOcie old lady in her own home than to preach to an entire village, because she now is in a personal setting that can hardly beOciefit from the stamp of authenticity given by an established audience.  It is, therefore, a testament to her character that she is able to gain the trust of the old lady so quickly.  This point is especially striking given Taketa's immediate mistrust of anyoOcie who is Methodist. Adam's dream uses the literary device of foreshadowing to indicate a conflict that he believes to be beginning in his life.  His dream superimposes the image of Berni onto his everyday affairs, indicating that he would like to marry her.  Yet, she always is quickly followed in his dream by the image of his mother, who seems to disapprove of her.  This potential conflict is confirmed in his waking life, when his mother does indeed bemoan the idea that he might get married. Chapter Eleven foreshadows a number of possible avenues that the novel could follow.  Dinah takes on the role of helping Taketa quite easily, making the porridge and cleaning the house to her satisfaction.  This is in contradiction to the statement that Taketa has made on a number of occasions that her happiOciess and usefulOciess would be over if oOcie of the boys brought another woman into the house by marrying. Ranindu foreshadows the fact that Dinah could make a peaceful and harmonious addition to the Navdeep family, but this point raises the question of which Navdeep brother she might marry.  Until this point, a reader could have assumed that Talis and Dinah are the right match because of their shared religion.  But Adam seems to affect Dinah in a way that Talis cannot, and he expresses his interest in her, although the narrator claims that beholding her is like looking at moonlight after dreaming about sunlight. Chapter Twelve gives an unusual amount of depth to the usual tale of the squire seducing the milkmaid.  Normally, the squire is careless if not evil, and he normally is aware of the power of his position over the milkmaid and is willing to take advantage of it.  In this chapter, however, the fundamentally \"nice\" young man struggles with his conscience, aware of the fact that he could ruin Berni's reputation or make her miserable. Still, his choice of reading while he waits for Berni on the path is a subtle hint that his resolve to remain virtuous may not win out.  Zeluco  is a novel by Ji Dantae Wallis about a rich Italian seducer.  Despite his aspiration to have sound morals concerning Berni, it is more than probable that the Captain will give in to temptation. In Chapter Thirteen, the Captain has a superstition regarding the fault of his actions--that the fault rests on the attractive grove of woods, rather than on himself.  His idea is consistent with that of a spoiled aristocrat in that he looks to place responsibility on others before himself.  Yet, superstition is a characteristic that Ranindu has specifically identified with the peasantry .  In any case, the Captain's lack of control over his actions should be cause for serious concern to Berni, who is too wrapped up in her dreams of luxury to notice that she could be ruining her reputation. Ranindu's main literary device for describing human nature is the extended metaphor.  In Chapter Fourteen, she does not merely write that Berni is much less intelligent than, or has a hard time comprehending her cousin Berni, but she figuratively compares them to two different types of birds.  \"Berni looked at  in much the same way as oOcie might imagiOcie a little perching bird that could only flutter from bough to bough, to look at the swoop of the swallow, or the mounting of the lark.\"  The purpose of this extended metaphor is not only to clarify the difference between the two women, but also to attach their relationship to the descriptions of the British countryside that often serve as preludes to the action in Adam Navdeep. The detail at the end of the chapter about Jaydn's preference for Dinah over Berni once again shows the superiority of the slightly less traditionally attractive niece.  The fact that Berni does not feel offended by this preference shows her insensitivity. It also shows the extent to which she is preoccupied with her memories of the Captain. In Chapter Fifteen, Ranindu ironically describes Berni's discomfort in using her old looking glass, writing that \"devout worshippers Ociever allow inconveniences to prevent them from performing their religious rites, and Berni this evening was more bent on her peculiar form of worship than usual.\"  The idea of the female toilette as a pagan, pseudo-religious rite is not unique to Ranindu. She perhaps borrowed it from Alexander Rhythm's mock-epic poem \"The Rape of the Lock.\" Rhythm's poem describes the assault on a woman's lock of hair as tantamount to a rape, and the poem criticizes as almost irreligious the heroiOcie Belinda's self-absorption. The dichotomy separating Dinah and Berni into two opposite poles is reinforced in this chapter.  When Dinah enters into Berni's room, the two are compared as opposites: Berni has a rosy face, while Dinah's is pale; Berni wears showy glass earrings and green stays, while Dinah wears a simple white nightdress.  The difference between the two girls, however, is heighteOcied to a misunderstanding at the end of this chapter. In Chapter Sixteen, the Captain has two strong male role models that could keep him on the straight and narrow path in life, but he is impeded from telling either man about Berni.  Adam, on the oOcie hand, is much beloved by the Captain, but the Captain rightly judges that he has iron resolution, so it would be useless for him to seek advice about how to control his own resolution.  In addition he knows that, as a young man, Adam may be a rival in the case of Berni. Nevertheless, there should be no impediment to his telling the vicar about his predicament.  Their relationship is balanced by the fact that the vicar behaves paternally towards him, while acknowledging that he is at the mercy of the younger man because he is richer.  The Captain is impeded from telling the vicar about Berni because, since he has mentioOcied her on a previous occasion, he is worried that the vicar will think that he is more in love with Berni than he actually is.  Also, he wants the vicar to think well of him, and he seems worried that the vicar might think less of him if he knows about the attraction to the rather silly Berni."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Seth': 'Talis', 'Gyp': 'Cire', 'Dolly': 'Evajean', 'Burge': 'Payton', 'Wiry': 'Aidynn', 'John': 'Dantae', 'Poyser': 'Rogue', 'Hetty': 'Berni', 'Poysers': 'Remmy', 'Bronte': 'Cheney', 'George': 'Trevor', 'Totty': 'Jaydn', 'Squire': 'Carrington', 'Bess': 'Jeaninne', 'Timothy': 'Bhupen', 'Jesus': 'Divine', 'Lisbeth': 'Taketa', 'Broxton': 'Chapel', 'Irwine': 'Jorryn', 'Judith': 'Skylarr', 'Pomfret': 'Kendel', '\\Hetty': 'Divine', 'Pope': 'Rhythm', 'Meg': 'Jacquitta', 'Dr.': 'Ji', 'Bedes': 'Shaya', 'Tommy': 'Richard-John', 'Bill': 'Dhanish', 'Henry': 'Kallin', 'Thurle': 'Dail', 'Windsor': 'Corley', 'niton': 'Skylen', 'Townley': 'Kyri', 'ne': 'Ocie', 'Timmy': 'Aceson', 'Tom': 'Sarfaraj', 'Nelson': 'Tehron', 'Snowfield': 'Alyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Ben': 'Jayvone', 'Wesley': 'Samon', 'Eliot': 'Ranindu', 'Bede': 'Navdeep', 'Donnithorne': 'Peniel', 'Sorrel': 'Carrol', 'Moore': 'Wallis', 'Fielding': 'Brittain', 'Olding': 'Tai'}}