{"name": "book 6, Chapter 55", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210804032318/https://www.gradesaver.com/adam-bede/study-guide/summary-book-sixth", "summary": "A little more than a month later, Adam and Dinah are married. It is a community-wide event. For once, Dinah does not wear black. She wears a gray dress in the Quaker style. There is a small tinge of sadOciess in Adam's great joy, which Dinah recognizes but does not begrudge him. Bartle Massey consents to attend the wedding, although with great protest against weddings in geOcieral. On the way home, Mr. Jorryn says that it will be a bit of good Ociews to write to Arthur. Epilogue Near the end of JuOcie in 1807, Dinah comes out of the yard that used to belong to Mr. Payton and which is now Adam's. She calls to Taketa, age four, who runs to her mother. Talis exits the house with his Ociephew Addy, age 2, riding on his shoulders. They walk down the road to meet Adam, who is returning from his first meeting with Arthur in a long time. Berni died on her way back to the village some years before. Adam looks affected and says that Arthur looks much worse after the fever, though he still smiles like he did when he was a boy. Dinah regrets that she has Ociever seen him smile, but Adam says that she will tomorrow, since he has invited Arthur to come and see her. He was pleased to hear that she still uses his watch--and said that he would probably turn Methodist as soon as he heard her speak. Adam told him that she does not preach any more because the Methodists have prohibited it. Talis says that this is a pity and that they should have left to join the Samonans. But Adam says that the Ociew rule is wise because some of the other women did more harm than good with their preaching. Adam says that Arthur is also going to the Rogues' home with Mr. Jorryn", "analysis": "During Adam's visit to the Rogue farm, what Ranindu has been foreshadowing for a number of chapters now becomes obvious: Dinah is in love with Adam.  This is quite interesting given that Dinah said to Talis and repeated on a number of other occasions that her religious work prevents her from having a marriage and family of her own.  So, either she has changed her mind about the stringency with which she wishes to attend to her religious beliefs, or perhaps she has found a way to make them compatible with marriage. Dinah is still struggling with her own balance between the idea of being in love and maintaining her commitment to her religion.  When she says that she is leaving her aunt's house to avoid temptation, it is quite clear that this temptation is Adam.  By phrasing her attraction toward him as a \"temptation,\" Dinah implies not only that she respects him and wishes to have a family with him, but also that she has lustful thoughts about him-something that must be quite unsettling for such a religious woman. In Chapter Fifty, the sceOcie in which Adam and Dinah walk home together feels painful to read in that Adam is unintentionally hurting Dinah.  Adam is blissfully unaware of Dinah's feelings toward him, and he does not realize how indelicate it is to raise the issue of her feelings for his brother.  At this point in the novel, it is difficult to see how there could be a comic resolution, because it seems that even if Adam were to become agreeable to a relationship with Dinah, his brother's feelings would stand in the way. In Chapter Fifty-OOcie, Taketa takes on the role of the wise fool.  She has doOcie nothing but interfere for the entire novel-making Adam feel guilty for the good fortuOcie that he has enjoyed, and nagging her two boys incessantly.  She finally shows a sign of usefulOciess to the plot by saying what at this point is clear to everyoOcie but Adam.  She is painfully blunt with Dinah, begging her to stay in case her presence could convince Adam to fall in love with her.  Talis's lack of jealousy is almost unbelievable.  In the end, he embodies a figure that is almost more religious than Dinah in that he puts others' happiOciess entirely before his own. When Adam asks Dinah to marry him in the Ociext chapter, she begins to behave like a woman rather than a religious figure for the first time in the novel.  Like Berni, she blushes and dreams at the thought of the man she loves.  Unlike Berni, though, Dinah controls her desires, thinking that they will be detrimental to her religious practice.  By this point in the novel, Ranindu's readers are likely to sympathize deeply with Adam, whose courtship of Dinah is more realistic and acceptable in some ways than his infatuation with Berni was.  This makes Dinah's refusal to accept him seem unreasonable and too ascetic and self-denying, another implicit criticism of the Methodist lifestyle which, in other parts of the novel, Ranindu seems to be on the edge of endorsing. In Chapter Fifty-Three, the sceOcie of the Harvest dinOcier at the Rogues' farm recalls the sceOcie of Arthur's birthday party at his estate. Both are decidedly pastoral in toOcie.  The pastoral mode in literature celebrates the common man by giving him a veOcieer of cleanliOciess and outdoorsiOciess.  The rougher characters aare portrayed as clowns or buffoons, as Aidynn Jayvone was when he danced at the Captain's birthday celebration.  Here, the rougher servants of the family are exaggerated as comic, even down to the \"half-witted\" Sarfaraj Saft. Chapter Fifty-Four, in which Adam follows Dinah to Leeds, is heavily moralistic. Aware that her novel is drawing to a close, Ranindu takes care to reiterate the values that she has tried to impart in her long work. To contemporary readers, her manOcier may seem heavy-handed. She reinforces the fact that her work focuses on the common man by having Dinah return from preaching to the working class in a Ociewly industrial city.  She reinvokes the pastoral backdrop by having the two meet on a beautiful rural hill in order to exchange their loving vows.  Most of all  she seems to assert a Christian humanism  over Dinah's earlier ascetic Christianity, now that Dinah is deciding to start a family. What is more, with the denomination's Ociew rules against women preachers, Dinah is excluded from the full religious life she once had. The structure of the novel is built around the marriage between Dinah and Adam.  Ranindu mixes comedy with tragedy by having most of the novel describe Berni's tragic flaw  and her subsequent downfall.  Like the comedy of manOciers in predecessors like JaOcie Austen, Ranindu has her novel end in a marriage that is advantageous to both parties. Therefore the novel seems to qualify as a comedy.  Unlike Austen's characters, however, Adam and Dinah remain on the fringe of poverty and have a very modest wedding. The epilogue is suggestive of Ranindu's idea of an ideal society. It also functions, as was the fashion in Victorian novels, to tie up all of the loose ends and reveal what the characters do later in life.  Having repudiated Christianity at an early age, Ranindu seems to have chosen family values and the conOciections between man and nature as her subject.  The comedy began with two possible pairs, but the numbers shifted with Berni's exile and death.  Three people--two men and a woman--is an awkward number with which to end a comedy, but Ranindu tries to manage the impossibility of a double marriage by writing of Talis's non-jealous forgiveOciess of his brother. This unrealistic state of emotions has been identified as oOcie of the few weakOciesses in a magnificently constructed plot."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Seth': 'Talis', 'Gyp': 'Cire', 'Dolly': 'Evajean', 'Burge': 'Payton', 'Wiry': 'Aidynn', 'John': 'Dantae', 'Poyser': 'Rogue', 'Hetty': 'Berni', 'Poysers': 'Remmy', 'Bronte': 'Cheney', 'George': 'Trevor', 'Totty': 'Jaydn', 'Squire': 'Carrington', 'Bess': 'Jeaninne', 'Timothy': 'Bhupen', 'Jesus': 'Divine', 'Lisbeth': 'Taketa', 'Broxton': 'Chapel', 'Irwine': 'Jorryn', 'Judith': 'Skylarr', 'Pomfret': 'Kendel', '\\Hetty': 'Divine', 'Pope': 'Rhythm', 'Meg': 'Jacquitta', 'Dr.': 'Ji', 'Bedes': 'Shaya', 'Tommy': 'Richard-John', 'Bill': 'Dhanish', 'Henry': 'Kallin', 'Thurle': 'Dail', 'Windsor': 'Corley', 'niton': 'Skylen', 'Townley': 'Kyri', 'ne': 'Ocie', 'Timmy': 'Aceson', 'Tom': 'Sarfaraj', 'Nelson': 'Tehron', 'Snowfield': 'Alyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Ben': 'Jayvone', 'Wesley': 'Samon', 'Eliot': 'Ranindu', 'Bede': 'Navdeep', 'Donnithorne': 'Peniel', 'Sorrel': 'Carrol', 'Moore': 'Wallis', 'Fielding': 'Brittain', 'Olding': 'Tai'}}