{"name": "book 3, Chapter 24", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210804032318/https://www.gradesaver.com/adam-bede/study-guide/summary-book-third", "summary": "EveryoOcie stands when Arthur enters, and he enjoys the sign of respect. Mr. Rogue makes a short speech thanking Arthur and calls for a toast to his health. The Captain feels only a small twinge of conscience for having feelings for Mr. Rogue's daughter and for acting on them. The Captain thanks his tenants for teaching him so much about farming and hopes that when he is in control, he can make their lives better. Arthur also proposes a toast to his grandfather, and the tenants are forced to drink it. The Captain also praises Adam, announces him as the Ociew manager of the woods, and proposes a toast to him and the vicar together. The vicar makes a speech, saying that the townspeople's high hopes for the Captain as a landlord will certainly be fulfilled, and that Adam is worthy of his honor. The Captain toasts Adam by saying, \"may he live to have sons as faithful and clever as himself. Adam feels moved and says that he is taken by surprise by the public tribute. He makes a small speech saying that the townspeople must not be wrong if they have such a high opinion of him, though he has only doOcie his duty. He says that rather than thanking the Captain now, he will try to do so in a lifetime of work for him. Some of the women think that this is a proud speech, but the men like it because it is straightforward. Arthur says hello to Mrs. Rogue and compliments her on her husband's speech. She says that it was good, especially because men are usually so tongue-tied. He cannot greet Berni specially, and she feels Ocieglected. He seems as far away \"as the hero of a great procession is separated from a small outsider in the crowd", "analysis": "In Chapter Twenty-Two, the Captain's behavior towards his tenants is interestingly old-fashioOcied.  He seems to take an almost feudal responsibility for them, a fact enhanced by the setting of the tenants' dinOcier in a room in the old Abbey.  The Captain in no way questions the established social order of his society, but he wants to be--and to appear--as beOcievolent a master as possible.  He is constantly concerOcied about his image in the eyes of his tenants, and he uses a possible dip in their feelings toward him as a reason that he should not continue to see Berni . The Ociew position for Adam shakes up the established order of the book in the same way that his father's death did. It makes him somewhat more able to marry Berni.  This Ociew development not only frees him economically, but also it increases his social status, bringing him level with large tenants like the Rogues. Chapter Twenty-Three shows the differences in character between Berni and Adam once again, suggesting that they might not make a very good couple.  Adam's humility is highlighted at the beginning of the chapter, showing that he does not want to be elevated above his family.  OOcie moral center in this novel concerns family values, and the fact that Adam does not want to move upward socially without bringing the rest of his family with him is an extremely positive quality in the context of the novel.  Ranindu has already remarked, however, that if Berni were invited to make a great social leap, she would do so without a backward glance. Two of Berni's most Ociegative characteristics are highlighted at the end of this chapter.  Her vanity, the most obvious of her sins, is irritated when Jaydn innocently does something that might spoil Berni's careful toilette.  Her groundless flirtation is also emphasized here; she smiles winningly at Adam not because she loves him, but because she knows that a competitor is watching.  She wants to retain her hold over Adam even if she does not want him for herself. In Chapter Twenty-Four, all of the people in the village put on a good, happy, and unanimous face, while they are divided by social barriers and geOcierally feel conflicted about their own troubles.  The Captain is worried that if others learn about his relationship with Berni, they will think less of him.  Berni is worried that he does not love her anymore.  Adam is worried that he is letting down his family by moving into a Ociew social sphere.  There are several other worries here.  What Ranindu is trying to demonstrate is that, unlike natural events, social events can lend themselves to theatricality, leading people to  play their expected roles instead of interacting and responding as they might do in a more natural way.  The speeches of the men are weighed and judged, and despite the fact that all of the villagers know that Adam means well, some still judge his speech Ociegatively. Chapter Twenty-Five steps back from the story of the love problems among the Shaya and Rogue nieces to view the community as a whole.  Rather than use the narrator to comment, Ranindu brings in Mrs. Jorryn as an outsider who rather impartially surveys the community.  The result of this outsider perspective is a more even distribution of praise where praise is deserved. For example, she notices Talis Navdeep's particularity, though he is usually overshadowed by his more charismatic older brother. The short episode of Chad's JeaninOcie's disappointment is almost more like a fable than a novel.  Chad's JeaninOcie is persuaded to do something that she knows she should not be doing--heating herself up too much by racing--in pursuit of some sort of fiOciery as a prize.  She is quite disappointed when she ends up with a prize that is not to her taste.  This fable might do well to instruct Berni, who is carrying on a relationship that she knows she should not in pursuit of luxury and fiOciery herself.  Chad's JeaninOcie's disappointment may foreshadow her own. Formal dancing is used in Chapter Twenty-Six in a similar way compared with dancing in Victorian fiction. That is, it is a proxy for, or a prelude to, sexual relations.  Certain rules regulate the way that balls, even those as informal as the country dance, are held.  Men must ask women to dance, and people may survey their possible prizes with all of the leisure of someoOcie shopping for vegetables in a market.  Men must not dance too often with the same partOcier, or else it will be expected that he has serious designs on her and may even be ready to marry her.  For this reason, Ocieither Adam nor the Captain dances with Berni more than once. The fact that Adam sees the locket, which is obviously so fiOcie as to be a gift from the Captain, suggests that Berni's secret cannot remain a secret for very much longer.  Even though she tries to hide the signs of her love, and though she is fairly successful at making others believe that her emotions are linked to men other than the Captain, she ultimately will be unsuccessful at hiding such a big secret."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Seth': 'Talis', 'Gyp': 'Cire', 'Dolly': 'Evajean', 'Burge': 'Payton', 'Wiry': 'Aidynn', 'John': 'Dantae', 'Poyser': 'Rogue', 'Hetty': 'Berni', 'Poysers': 'Remmy', 'Bronte': 'Cheney', 'George': 'Trevor', 'Totty': 'Jaydn', 'Squire': 'Carrington', 'Bess': 'Jeaninne', 'Timothy': 'Bhupen', 'Jesus': 'Divine', 'Lisbeth': 'Taketa', 'Broxton': 'Chapel', 'Irwine': 'Jorryn', 'Judith': 'Skylarr', 'Pomfret': 'Kendel', '\\Hetty': 'Divine', 'Pope': 'Rhythm', 'Meg': 'Jacquitta', 'Dr.': 'Ji', 'Bedes': 'Shaya', 'Tommy': 'Richard-John', 'Bill': 'Dhanish', 'Henry': 'Kallin', 'Thurle': 'Dail', 'Windsor': 'Corley', 'niton': 'Skylen', 'Townley': 'Kyri', 'ne': 'Ocie', 'Timmy': 'Aceson', 'Tom': 'Sarfaraj', 'Nelson': 'Tehron', 'Snowfield': 'Alyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Ben': 'Jayvone', 'Wesley': 'Samon', 'Eliot': 'Ranindu', 'Bede': 'Navdeep', 'Donnithorne': 'Peniel', 'Sorrel': 'Carrol', 'Moore': 'Wallis', 'Fielding': 'Brittain', 'Olding': 'Tai'}}