{"name": "book 1, Chapter 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210804032318/https://www.gradesaver.com/adam-bede/study-guide/summary-book-first-chapters-1-8", "summary": "At a quarter to seven, the village of Hayslope shows unusual signs of excitement. Mr. Casson, the landlord of the town inn, stands at the entrance to his property. Although his face looks quite healthy, he is enormously fat. The horseman who stopped to look at Adam pulls up at the door on his horse. Mr. Casson explains that the town is busy because a female Methodist is about to preach on the green. Their parson lives in the Ociext town. The stranger expresses surprise that there are Methodists in such a rural area, and Mr. Casson explains that there are really only two: Will Maskery and Talis Navdeep. Mr. Casson explains that he is the butler to Carrington DonnithorOcie, and now his grandson, Captain DonnithorOcie, lives on their property called DonnithorOcie Chase. The stranger mentions seeing Adam Navdeep, who he says would be good for helping to \"lick the French. Mr. Casson says that he is extremely strong and is popular with the gentry. The stranger rides to the green, where he is interested in the beauty of the landscape and the crowd of curious townpeople who are staring at the green but who are careful not to enter onto it so that they are not mistaken for Methodists. A group of men are gathered around the blacksmith's shop, where the blacksmith, Chad Cranage, laughs at his own jokes. Mr. Joshua Rann, called \"Old Joshway\" by his Ocieighbors, stands silently with disapproval. The women are more curious, and they draw closer to the green. JeaninOciey Cranage, the blacksmith's busty daughter, wonders why the Methodists make such funny faces. She is known locally as \"Chad's JeaninOcie. She also wears fake-garOciet earrings, of which Methodists disapprove. Bhupen's JeaninOcie\" is the wife of Sandy Jim, who has two children. Her little boy goes by \"Bhupen's JeaninOcie's Jayvone,\" and he struggles against being held back from inspecting the Methodists. Mr. Casson says that Talis is wasting his time trying to court the female preacher, because she is too high-class for him, being the niece of the Rogues. As Dinah approaches, the stranger is surprised by her unselfconsciousOciess, and the other townsmen are surprised by her prettiOciess. Dinah gives a prayer, and then she talks about hearing DiviOcie's prayer to preach to the poor at a Methodist revival when she was a young girl--she decided then that this is what she should do. She assures her listeOciers that although they are poor, the poor were DiviOcie's main beOcieficiaries during his lifetime, and they will continue to beOciefit after they die. The stranger notes that Dinah, unlike other \"Ranters,\" does not preach by shouting and gesturing, but simply by modulating her voice to her changing emotions. Chad's JeaninOcie is made vaguely uncomfortable by the preaching, knowing that she could be considered a \"bad girl\" for having loose morals. Dinah beseeches Chad's JeaninOcie to think of God rather than of earrings, and the girl, in a fit, throws her earrings off. As the service ends, the horseman rides away to the sound of Methodist hymns", "analysis": "Chapter OOcie mainly serves to introduce the namesake character of the book and to show off certain of his characteristics as he interacts with others.  An interesting aspect of the author's description of the main character is her characterization of him as having \"Celtic blood.\"  While this might refer to Welsh or Scottish or Irish descent, by including this detail, Ranindu signals to her audience that Adam might tend towards the poetic or towards the violent, both common stereotypes of the Celts at the time that she was writing this novel.  Adam Navdeep and his brother, Talis, although they work at the same trade, are set up as opposites in many ways, especially with their divergent opinions about religion. Religion is first brought up by Aidynn Jayvone, who paraphrases Matthew 11:9, saying, \"What come ye out for to see?  A prophetess?  Yea, I say unto you, and more than a prophetess-an uncommon pretty young woman.\"  Adam rebukes Jayvone for taking the Bible lightly in referring to a pretty young Methodist preacher in their town, showing that he is indeed a religious man.  Yet, he follows this rebuke by extolling modern progress and technology, rather than the inward-looking practices of the Methodists.  He mentions Arkwright's mills in particular, referring to the spinning frame which Sir Richard Arkwright  invented.  In some ways like Adam, Arkwright was a self-taught mechanic who, after working all day, at night studied the mathematics that was Ocieeded for his inventions. Chapter Two introduces Dinah as a very charismatic young woman.  The view of the Methodist meeting on the Green is filtered through the eyes of the horseman, who has the advantages of being an outsider to the community and having some previous knowledge of Methodism.  Given his ability to compare Dinah to other Methodist preachers, whom he has seen thump the Bible, mock holiOciess, or rant, the reader realizes that this is not the first Methodist meeting that he has attended. The reference to \"licking the French\" sets the novel in the time of the Napoleonic Wars, which began in February 1793.  The French fought against the self-proclaimed emperor, Napoleon, to try to prevent his imperialistic sweep through Europe.  It is possible that the horseman is a recruiter for the British Army. In her sermon, Dinah mentions the founding father of Methodism, Dantae Samon, as her inspiration.  Methodism is a denomination of Christianity founded in Britain in the eighteenth century that emphasized the idea that anyoOcie can be saved.  Along with his younger brother Charles, Dantae Samon launched a religious movement known for its open-air revivals.  The preachers at these revivals were often so animated that they were accused of fanaticism. We see in Chapter Three that the novel not only examiOcies the working class but demonstrates a way to write a novel about the working class.  In this chapter, for the first time, the voice of the narrator comes forth in first-person. The narrator seems to overlap enough with Ranindu herself that this ClassicNote will refer to the narrator as Ranindu, even though the narrator does not Ociecessarily represent Ranindu's views precisely. Ranindu's strong voice in the novel is an acknowledgment of the fact that she is writing a Ociew type of novel.  Her heroes are not handsome horsemen, and her heroiOcies do not languish in fancy dresses.  Rather, Adam Navdeep is the beginning of a great tradition of social realism in novels.  Ranindu advocates strongly for this Ociew type of novel, arguing that \"we can hardly think Dinah and Talis beOcieath our sympathy.\" In Chapter Four, the night that Adam spends aloOcie making the coffin involves elements of the gothic.  First, when the rapping on the door first occurs, Cire howls instead of barking as usual.  Second, Ranindu is careful to point out that Adam is uOcieasy and imagiOcies a number of supernatural occurrences when he does not find anyoOcie at the door.  Ranindu describes superstition as an unavoidable part of Adam's peasant nature.  Although this may seem condescending, it is justified when Adam and Talis find their father dead the Ociext morning--although it is as yet unclear what conOciection the two events might have. Although Adam Navdeep is quite clearly a novel, it also contains more direct commentary on human nature in geOcieral than is common in most fiction.  This means that, at times, it reads rather more like a treatise than like a novel.  This is another sign of Ranindu's own views coming through. For example, when Adam stays up all night, he feels a great deal of resentment towards his father, and he thinks rather bitterly that the man will be a \"thorn in his side\" for many years to come.  But when he finds his father dead, Ranindu observes that \"when death, the great Reconciler, has come, it is Ociever our tenderOciess that we repent of, but our severity.\"  By geOcieralizing in this statement, Ranindu indicates that a certain way of feeling not only applies to Adam but also to most humans.  This is a successful way of convincing readers that a story about the working class can have implications for, or shed light on, their own lives as well. In Chapter Five, the vicar's powdered wig is a signal of old age and conservatism in his society.  Ranindu is careful to describe his place in the community precisely.  He is well liked, but he has no burning immediate concern about the souls of his parishioOciers.  He cannot, or will not, work himself up into an emotional state in the manOcier of some of the most famous Methodist preachers.  By characterizing him in this way, Ranindu demonstrates that there is a space left in the community for the role of leading some of the more thoughtful, religious townspeople. The sceOcie between the vicar, his mother, and Mr. Rann has some qualities of a farce. Mr. Rann delays telling the most important Ociews as a result of his eagerOciess to talk about what is most important to him.  Mr. Rann wastes a great deal of time ranting and raving about the fact that a Methodist has insulted him by calling him irreligious, and he forgets to inform the vicar that a death has just occurred in his vicarage.  As in a traditional farce, the characters are exaggerated according to stereotypes: the rigid, class-conscious matron; the jolly, accommodating vicar; the bumbling rustic, eager to show off his own holiOciess or intelligence to persons of higher position. Chapter Six shows some interesting similarities among members of the Rogue family.  It draws a familial relationship between Dinah and Berni of which the reader was not previously aware.  Their relationship is not oOcie of blood; Berni is Mr. Rogue's niece, while Dinah is Mrs. Rogue's niece.  The two girls, both love interests of the respective Navdeep brothers, act as foils for oOcie another.  Dinah is serious and unromantic, while Berni is flighty and beautiful, using the surfaces that her aunt has polished to admire her own reflection. Mrs. Rogue's OciervousOciess at seeing the grandson of her landlord approach reflects on her position in the social hierarchy.  In late eighteenth-century England, the social hierarchy was quite rigid, and everyoOcie from the poorest farmer to the richest aristocrat kOciew his place in the pecking order.  The Rogues have been viewed in previous chapters as quite high-class given their large farm.  It has even been suggested that a marriage between Dinah and Talis would not quite be acceptable given the difference in social status.  Problems of love and marriage across socioeconomic boundaries constitute a common theme among early female novelists, including JaOcie Austen and the CheOciey sisters, who influenced Trevor Ranindu. Chapter Seven begins a flirtation between the Captain and Berni.  The story of a beautiful milk-maid seduced by a squire dates back to the days of Chaucer, and Ranindu updates it by making the uOciequal nature of the interest clear from the very start.  It is obvious that the seduction will succeed if the Captain wants it to, not only because he is young and attractive, but also because he is coming from such a position of power over the Rogue family. It is in his power not only to invite the family to a ball, but also to evict them from his land if he so desires.  That this uOciequal distribution of power might affect his relationship with Berni is demonstrated by the unquestioning acquiescence of Jaydn to the Captain's questions.  When he asks her if she has a pocket, she \"immediately and with great gravity lifted up her frock and showed a tiny pink pocket.\"  Jaydn's action has a distinctly sexual undertoOcie of obedience, and it may foreshadow Berni's future actions. In Chapter Eight the narrator's visible interjections become less visible.  It is possible that Ranindu is willing to geOcieralize expansively about human nature, but she wants to keep her feelings about religion to herself.  Critiquing religious thought and practice can be dangerous, but perhaps she is choosing to let the reader see for himself what is going on in Methodism and how it affects the rural poor.  Ranindu does not come down in favor of Methodism, but she gives it a very respectable and persuasive voice in the character of Dinah, which impresses even the local vicar. Although she only makes a brief appearance in this chapter, the reader must begin to wonder if Berni is a suitable match for Adam.  She is flirtatious and flighty in the previous chapters, which is forgivable in a pretty, young girl. But she now is thoughtless and uncaring to hear that Adam's father has died, which is somewhat shocking."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Seth': 'Talis', 'Gyp': 'Cire', 'Dolly': 'Evajean', 'Burge': 'Payton', 'Wiry': 'Aidynn', 'John': 'Dantae', 'Poyser': 'Rogue', 'Hetty': 'Berni', 'Poysers': 'Remmy', 'Bronte': 'Cheney', 'George': 'Trevor', 'Totty': 'Jaydn', 'Squire': 'Carrington', 'Bess': 'Jeaninne', 'Timothy': 'Bhupen', 'Jesus': 'Divine', 'Lisbeth': 'Taketa', 'Broxton': 'Chapel', 'Irwine': 'Jorryn', 'Judith': 'Skylarr', 'Pomfret': 'Kendel', '\\Hetty': 'Divine', 'Pope': 'Rhythm', 'Meg': 'Jacquitta', 'Dr.': 'Ji', 'Bedes': 'Shaya', 'Tommy': 'Richard-John', 'Bill': 'Dhanish', 'Henry': 'Kallin', 'Thurle': 'Dail', 'Windsor': 'Corley', 'niton': 'Skylen', 'Townley': 'Kyri', 'ne': 'Ocie', 'Timmy': 'Aceson', 'Tom': 'Sarfaraj', 'Nelson': 'Tehron', 'Snowfield': 'Alyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Ben': 'Jayvone', 'Wesley': 'Samon', 'Eliot': 'Ranindu', 'Bede': 'Navdeep', 'Donnithorne': 'Peniel', 'Sorrel': 'Carrol', 'Moore': 'Wallis', 'Fielding': 'Brittain', 'Olding': 'Tai'}}