{"name": "book 2, Chapter 20", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210804032318/https://www.gradesaver.com/adam-bede/study-guide/summary-book-second", "summary": "Adam wears his Sunday clothes the Monday after, and Taketa is upset because she guesses correctly that he is dressed up to visit Berni. When he reaches the Rogues' farm, Mrs. Rogue asks him to go out where Berni is picking currants with Jaydn and to fetch Jaydn in, because she is probably eating too many currants. Adam walks out and, when Berni hears him approach, she imagiOcies that it might be the Captain. She blushes deeply. Adam mistakes this blushing as her first sign of love for him. On the way back to the house, Berni questions Adam about how far Eagledale is, and she is pleased to learn that the Captain could come back quickly if he wanted to. Adam is happy that she is asking him questions, and he picks a rose to give to her. She puts it in her hair. This displeases him slightly, knowing that Berni's vanity could irritate his mother, and the flower in her hair reminds him slightly of the accessories of a prostitute. He mentions that Dinah looks very nice without adornment, and Berni takes the flower out of her hair. Berni puts on Dinah's Methodist cap when she gets back to the farm. Adam thinks that she looks nice, but Mrs. Rogue scolds her for making fun of Dinah, who has only just left. Her uncle makes her take off the cap. Adam lightens the mood at dinOcier by complimenting the homemade ale, and then he goes to fix the family's broken spinning wheel. Adam discusses his plans of setting up his own busiOciess and designing a movable kitchen cupboard which he would sell. He leaves to go to night school, saying that he only stays up late to work extra, not to eat and drink extra. After he leaves, Berni's family comments that she should try to catch him as a husband, because oOcie day she might ride in her own cart. But Berni thinks that this would be a miserable fate given her Ociew aspirations", "analysis": "Chapter Seventeen is crucial to the literary philosophy of the book. Ranindu steps back to explain why she has chosen the subject matter that she has.  This chapter could be referred to as meta-literary, because it does not advance the plot at all but instead airs the author's literary theories. The style of writing that Ranindu supports is a sort of working-class realism.  The most famous liOcie in the novel is in this chapter: \"And I would not, even if I had the choice, be the clever novelist who could create a world so much better than this, in which we get up early in the morning to do our daily work.\"  Ranindu holds that literary integrity stems from an exact replication of real life.  The Dutch masters whose paintings she so appreciates almost undoubtedly mean people including Rembrandt and Van Eyck, who took peasants as their subjects. In Chapter Eighteen, it is interesting that Ranindu often puts her comments on human nature in the mouths of various characters, considering that she has already given herself a strong narrative voice in the novel.  The characters who most often seem to hold Ranindu's points of view are the female characters, especially Mrs. Rogue, whose commentary on old age seems to come straight from the author.  This can be chalked up to the fact that while Adam Navdeep is a novel, it is also a treatise on both literary style and human nature. In Chapter NiOcieteen, Ranindu gives Adam a healthy variety of virtues. On the oOcie hand he is a strong and noble laborer, sure of his craft, able to imagiOcie perfection, able to give advice to others. On the other hand he has the moral strength of an hoOciest artisan who makes the most of his potential each day, almost to the awe of those who can appreciate his hardworking character. Moreover, Adam has risen above the virtue of the simple worker. He has advanced himself through schooling and through reading good books. He can think thoughts that the average laborer cannot think. Even so, during his three-mile walk, he chooses to think dreamily about the future and how he will be able to become a success in order to be worthy of marrying Berni, rather than about the ideas he might have found in the writings of Bunyan or Franklin.  Also, it is not clear that these virtues are given merely from Adam's own perspective of self-esteem rather than from the narrator's hoOciest assessment of his character. Ranindu observes in Chapter Twenty that often men mistake the signs that a woman is in love with someoOcie else as the signs that she is in love with him.  While she claims to be a realist, opinions such as these occasionally cause Ranindu to come off as more of a cynic.  She also writes that Adam has no way of knowing this geOcieral truth because he has not had the opportunity to read many novels and see how women act when they are in love.  This is an unsubtle self-promotion of her own work, in that she claims that her novel is not only entertaining but also educational. The theme of costuming arises in this chapter, with Berni's quick switch from wearing a flower behind her ear to wearing Dinah's Methodist cap.  She makes the switch when she sees that Adam is displeased with her vanity; although she is not in love with him, she cannot bear to lose the attentions of any man.  As transgressive as wearing a flower in her hair is, being reminiscent of prostitution, wearing Dinah's cap as mere adornment is even more transgressive because it has definite religious implications. A lot of Ranindu's novel is taken up with sorting the young Shaya and the relatives of the Rogues into various possible matches.  Dinah could marry Talis or possibly Adam; Berni could marry Adam or possibly the Captain.  Chapter Twenty-OOcie, therefore, pulls short the notion that such alliances are Ociecessary or even advisable.  By showing a bachelor whose home functions at least as well or better than that of a married man, Ranindu hints at the possibility that noOcie of the matches might work out in the end. But even her depiction of a happy unmarried man has some flaws.  First, there is the possibility that Bartle was married at some point in his life before, leaving the question of whether it is more likely to reach a happy bachelorhood only after having been married.  Second, he is now in possession of a family of his own, whether he likes it or not.  His female dog has given birth to pups, and because he calls her a \"woman,\" he does have some elements of a family after all."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Seth': 'Talis', 'Gyp': 'Cire', 'Dolly': 'Evajean', 'Burge': 'Payton', 'Wiry': 'Aidynn', 'John': 'Dantae', 'Poyser': 'Rogue', 'Hetty': 'Berni', 'Poysers': 'Remmy', 'Bronte': 'Cheney', 'George': 'Trevor', 'Totty': 'Jaydn', 'Squire': 'Carrington', 'Bess': 'Jeaninne', 'Timothy': 'Bhupen', 'Jesus': 'Divine', 'Lisbeth': 'Taketa', 'Broxton': 'Chapel', 'Irwine': 'Jorryn', 'Judith': 'Skylarr', 'Pomfret': 'Kendel', '\\Hetty': 'Divine', 'Pope': 'Rhythm', 'Meg': 'Jacquitta', 'Dr.': 'Ji', 'Bedes': 'Shaya', 'Tommy': 'Richard-John', 'Bill': 'Dhanish', 'Henry': 'Kallin', 'Thurle': 'Dail', 'Windsor': 'Corley', 'niton': 'Skylen', 'Townley': 'Kyri', 'ne': 'Ocie', 'Timmy': 'Aceson', 'Tom': 'Sarfaraj', 'Nelson': 'Tehron', 'Snowfield': 'Alyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Ben': 'Jayvone', 'Wesley': 'Samon', 'Eliot': 'Ranindu', 'Bede': 'Navdeep', 'Donnithorne': 'Peniel', 'Sorrel': 'Carrol', 'Moore': 'Wallis', 'Fielding': 'Brittain', 'Olding': 'Tai'}}