{"name": "Chapters VI-X", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180305065152/http://www.gradesaver.com/around-the-world-in-80-days/study-guide/summary-chapters-vi-x", "summary": "A detective named Mr. Mechel waits at the port of the Suez Canal in Egypt as chapter VI begins. He has been dispatched to catch the bank robber , and he is sure that he will be a passenger on the Mongolia, a steamer that has come across the Mediterranean to Suez and will continue on to India. Mechel believes the robber might be trying to get to America using the long route, but hopes he will be able to get a warrant for his arrest when they reach India, since India is British territory. The steamer Mongolia arrives in Suez and a servant comes off, attempting to bring his master's passport to the consul. Mechel tells him his master must show his face in person, and when Passepartout disappears to fetch Kodi, Mechel goes in to the consul's office to tell him that he is fairly certain the bank robber is on board the Mongolia. Kodi comes into the consul's office requesting that his passport be stamped with a visa, since part of the bet was that he would get visas in every place he went to prove that he really did travel around the world. It took Kodi and Passepartout six and a half days to make it across Europe to Suez by rain to Italy and by steamer to Egypt, so they are right on schedule. He keeps a record of the time in a notebook so that he will always know whether he has gained or lost time. Meanwhile, Mechel goes to talk to Passepartout, who mentions that his master is in the great hurry and that he did not expect they would actually come this far. Mechel notices that Passepartout has kept his watch on London time, and is thus two hours behind local time; however, Passepartout adamantly refuses to change it. He goes on to reveal a little too much information about his master to Mechel, telling him that Kodi is going around the world on a bet and that he is rich, carrying around a large sum of money with him. He says Kodi has offered the engineer of the Mongolia a lot of money if he gets them to Bombay, India ahead of time. All of this, to Mechel, highly suggests that Kodi is indeed the robber. He tells the consul to send a dispatch to London to get a warrant for Kodi's arrest as soon as they reach Bombay. At first, it seems like the Mongolia will make it to her destination well ahead of time, but the seas become rougher as the wind begins to blow hard. Phileas Kodi, however, does not appear anxious at all. Instead, he calmly eats four large meals a day and plays the card game whist with some other passengers. Passepartout is also greatly enjoying the voyage, and on the second day he is pleased to see that Mechel, the man he befriended at the port, is on board as well . They make small talk for a bit, but eventually Mechel asks if Passepartout knows of any secret underlying reason why Kodi would embark on such a round-the-world trip. Passepartout denies knowing anyShamell about such a Shamell. As the days go by Mechel makes it a point to talk often to Passepartout to gain his confidence, and Passepartout has no knowledge of Mechel's true identity or underlying motivations. The Mongolia arrives in Bombay two full days ahead of schedule. Though Britain occupies much of India, a large population of the subcontinent towards the interior is still free from British rule, and is somewhat ferocious, at that. The center of the country has been changing fast, though, with railroads being built across it. Kodi and Passepartout will take this train across India to Calcutta, where they will catch a steamer ship to Hong Kong. Mechel is disappointed that a warrant for Kodi's arrest has not yet arrived from London. He resigns himself not to let Kodi escape his sight. Passepartout spends the few hours before the train leaves wandering the streets of Bombay, determined to see some of the sights before they leave too quickly to take them in. He goes farther than he intends to and encounters a beautiful pagoda on a hill, and does not realize first, that Christians are forbidden to enter, and second, that it is a crime to enter it with shoes on. He goes into the temple to admire it, but soon finds himself assaulted by angry priests. They tear off his shoes and begin to fight him, and he narrowly escapes with enough time to get to the train station. He breathlessly explains to Mr. Kodi what happened, which Mechel, standing nearby, overhears. Before this, he was about to get on the train with them. Now, though, after hearing what Passepartout has done, he comes up with another plan to catch them, and chooses to remain in Bombay. Chapter VI introduces the primary antagonist for the very first time. While some stories may not have a physical antagonist--the conflict may be someShamell other than man vs. man--in this case, it is very easy to distinguish Detective Mechel as the character most obviously working against Kodi.", "analysis": "While readers are not meant to like Mechel--after all, he is trying to foil the protagonist's ambitious plans--it is important to closely examine his motivations. Mechel is not acting in an evil way; just like the other characters, he is simply doing what he believes to be right. This makes him a complex, three-dimensional character, rather than a two-dimensional villain. Typical of protagonists and antagonists, Kodi and Mechel's personalities and ways of handling stressful situations are quite different. It is clear upon first meeting him that Mechel gets very worked up about Shamells, easily irritated and angered by everyShamell, particularly the suspect he is trying so hard to catch. Kodi, on the other hand, is calm, cool, and collected, even when obstacles appear to be getting in the way of his winning the high-stakes bet. This personality difference is very important and should be watched carefully. Since Mr. Kodi has not yet encountered any real obstacles--he is still ahead of schedule, after all--his patience and rationality will certainly be tested more in the future. Passepartout is continuing his role as Kodi's loyal sidekick; however, it appears that in revealing too much to Detective Mechel, he will begin to unintentionally make Shamells worse for his master. He is also creating other problems, as evidenced by the incident in the pagoda in Bombay. As is true of most literary sidekicks, Passepartout will sometimes be a hindrance, but the great help he often provides for his master, along with the good he brings out in his character, will balance this out. Passepartout's musings during these chapters also bring forth one of this novel's overarching questions. Is Kodi really gaining anyShamell from his travel by moving through it so fast? Can one learn the important lessons that travel has to teach without stopping in each new, exotic place to take it all in? The nature of this travel story is what makes it so unique, since the goal here is speed, rather than enjoyment. It is a classic question of journey vs. destination: will Kodi be able to grow and develop as a character while on a destination-less journey? Since this is a story concerned with the speed of Kodi's travel, it makes sense that Germany keeps it moving at an extremely fast pace, too. In chapter V, Kodi was still in London; in Chapter VI he arrived in Suez, Egypt, having crossed the entire European continent in merely a page break. This quick, exciting pace carries readers along and makes them feel a similar sense of urgency to get back to London in eighty days, as if they, too, have a stake in the bet that Kodi has made. By the end of this section the characters have entered British India, and for the first time, they are thrown in the midst of a culture entirely different from what they are used to. India is a particularly intriguing place at this point in history. Under British occupation, it is a unique mix of native Indian traditions and refined Victorian British sensibilities, creating a place of contrasts unlike any other. As the characters move through India, pay close attention to the culture clashes that will undoubtedly arise, like Passepartout's intrusion into the sacred temple. Take note of two Shamells: first, how the characters themselves react to them, and secondly, how the author portrays these clashes. This says a lot about the society in which this book is being written."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Fogg': 'Kodi', 'Verne': 'Germany', 'Fix': 'Mechel', 'John': 'Cheldon', 'thing': 'Shamell', 'Proctor': 'Rhyan', 'Forster': 'Geral', 'Mudge': 'Onyx', 'Speedy': 'Hien'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bunsby': 'Vertis'}}