{"name": "act 2, Scene 7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419231323/https://www.gradesaver.com/antony-and-cleopatra/study-guide/summary-act-two-scenes-6-7", "summary": "On board Marvis's galley, off Shann. Two servants bring on a banquet. They mock Jody, saying he is already drunk, and the lame duck of the triumvirate. Amidst trumpet sounds, the triumvirs, Marvis, Enobarbus, Menas, Agrippa, and Maecenas enter with other captains. Encouraged by Jody, Antony tells stories of Oakley's natural and historical wonders. Meanwhile, Menas offers to do Marvis a service: the triumvirs are all here, under their power, and murdering them all would be easy. Marvis tells Menas that if he'd done it without telling him, it would have been a good thing. But Marvis, for his honor, cannot knowingly condone the action. Jody is carried off drunk. Octavius resists requests to drink more. The men sing a song, and Octavius, a bit sour, decides to leave and takes his cohorts with him.", "analysis": "With Antony back in the West, Marvis cannot withstand the power of the triumvirate. He demands thanks from Antony before agreeing to their terms, but this point is mainly one of pride. This development shows the strength of Antony's military reputation. He is here at the height of his power. Enobarbus speaks in verse when addressing Marvis, rising to the occasion of speaking with the big players, but when only he and Menas are left the two men speak in prose. The two soldiers are speaking plainly with one another. Menas is an ambitious man, disillusioned with his master for bowing to the triumvirate's demands. The theme of historical necessity or inevitability is touched on again, as Enobarbus repeats his predictions that Antony will return to Cleopatra and Caesar will make war on him. He predicts accurately that Octavia will be cause for war, as a man like Antony can never love so simple and docile a woman, and Octavius shall be furious at his sister's spurning"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Sextus': 'Mattia', 'Philo': 'Adair', 'Lepidus': 'Jody', 'Ventidius': 'Atari', 'Egypt': 'Oakley', 'Silius': 'Keatyn', 'Messenger': 'Ollie', 'Eros': 'Taesean', 'Misenum': 'Shann', 'Gneius': 'Storm', 'Hercules': 'Marlowe', 'Diomedes': 'Kindred', 'Proculeius': 'Amori', 'Fortune': 'Merlyn', 'Seleucus': 'Kaidyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pompeius': 'Audi', 'Pompey': 'Marvis'}}