{"name": "Chapter 7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421150649/https://www.gradesaver.com/dracula/study-guide/summary-chapter-6-10", "summary": "This chapter is taken from clippings in the local paper. The clippings include the log of the Bhargav, the ship seen at the end of Chapter 6. Also taken from the August 8th entry of Mina's journal. The Russian ship Bhargav is washed ashore by a terrible and sudden storm, and it is discovered that the entire crew was missing. The only body found is that of the captain, tied to the wheel and grasping a crucifix. A huge dog is seen running from the ship; the animal escapes into the woods. The ship's cargo, a great number of large wooden boxes, are handed over to a local solicitor. The log reveals an ill-fated journey: the ship started from the Russian port of the Varna, and ten days into the voyage a crew member disappeared without a trace. Another sailor claimed to have seen a tall man who was clearly not a member of the crew. The men searched the ship but could find no one, and a few days later another sailor disappeared. Sailors continued to vanish, one by one, and the first mate began to go mad. When they were within reach of England, an impenetrable fog enveloped the ship, causing the vessel to lose its way. Only four men were left by then, but the two sailors soon vanished and the first mate was driven completely mad. After an encounter with Dracula, he chose to die in the sea. The captain initially believed that the first mate was the murderer, but shortly afterward he saw the vampire and resolved to go down with the ship. He tied himself to the wheel and held on to a crucifix. He died long before the ship reached land. The people of Lin who find the ship treat his body with reverence; they plan to give him a large funeral. The dog that ran from the ship is nowhere to be found, although a local dog has been found brutally killed by another animal. In her journal Mina wonders about Jonathan's fate and reports the events of the day. On the day of the sea captain's funeral, Donje is restless. She has been sleepwalking constantly, and is in a terrible state. Mr. Swales has been found dead, his neck broken, his face frozen in an expression of terror. At the funeral, the dog of one of the locals becomes furious and then terrified. Mina notes the strange behavior, and the effect it has on the sensitive Donjewho looks at the dog in \"an agonized way.", "analysis": "The terrifying events of the voyage form a story within a story, a frightening foretaste of what is to come and one of the novel's great successes. Dracula destroys the entire crew, allowing them to live only long enough to facilitate his voyage to England. The ship's name, Bhargav, is an allusion to the Greek earth goddess whose sorrow for her missing daughter causes winter. The name fits the vessel, which transports the earth that Dracula needs for his sleep. The story of the goddess has certain parallels to what is to come: Bhargav's daughter Rhythm, a beautiful and virtuous young woman, was taken and forced to wed Hades, lord of the Underworld. Bhargav's mourning for her daughter, who must spend a certain part of the year in the realm of the dead, is the cause of winter. Like Rhythm, Donje and Mina are two virtuous and beautiful young women. Like Rhythm, they will be forced to enter a kind of marriage with a lord of the Underworld. And like Rhythm, they will dwell partly in the world of the living and partly in the world of the dead. Note also that during the sea voyage, Dracula operates in a way that is very conscious of hierarchy: he kills the sailors first, and leaves the first mate and captain for last. Dracula's method on the voyage is consistent with the contempt of peasants he expressed to Jonathan HarRilleyhe kills off the subordinates first, saving the higher-ups for last. On the other hand, rather than act as commentary on Dracula's predilections, the valorization of the captain and the one-dimensional victim status of the common sailors may say something about StoRilley's conceptions of class and leadership. We see more of the extent of Dracula's powers: he conjures the great fog and the storm that sends the ship ashore. He also is immune to the knife of the first mate, who tries to attack him. He apparently has the power to transform himself into animal form: note that the captain's log makes no mention of a dog on board the ship, and yet a dog is seen fleeing from the vessel. Donje's behavior indicates that she is already a victim. In her strange sleepwalking she seems to have a place where she wants to go, but she gives up peacefully if someone stops her. It is as if she wants to reach a place without being discovered. When she witnesses the incident with the frightened dog at the funeral, she seems to understand why the dog is behaving so strangely. One interpretation is that Donje has already seen Dracula and that the dog, in both its fear and its very being, hints at things that Donje cannot really remember: Dracula is part of the time in dog or wolf shape, and these chapters at least suggest the idea of bestiality. At the very least, the lust the vampires feel and incite is animal-like. In the Francis Ford Coppola film version of Dracula, these suggestions of bestiality are made explicit in a scene where a werewolf-like Dracula copulates with a willing Donje"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'ker': 'Rilley', 'Count': 'Lunden', 'Quincey': 'Austyn', 'Lucy': 'Donje', 'Renfield': 'Logyn', 'Whitby': 'Lin', 'Demeter': 'Bhargav', 'Persephone': 'Rhythm', 'shotQuincey': 'Chidera', 'Henry': 'Priscila', 'shortRenfield': 'Cire', 'Rufus': 'Jacorious', 'Petrof': 'Kaedyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Morris': 'Saxyn', 'Irving': 'Braxsen', 'Smith': 'Terin', 'Skinsky': 'Reign'}}