{"name": "Chapter 8", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421150649/https://www.gradesaver.com/dracula/study-guide/summary-chapter-6-10", "summary": "Taken from the August 8th, August 11th, August 12th, August 13th, August 14th, August 15th, and August 17th entries of Mina Murray's journal. Also includes correspondence between Samuel F. Billington and Son, Lin solicitors, and Messrs. Carter, Patterson, and Company, of London, in business letters dated August 17th and August 21st. Taken again from the August 18th and August 19th entries of Mina Murray's journal. Also contains the letter from Sister Agatha to Mina Murray, dated August 12th. Closes with the August 19th entry of Dr. Seward's diary. In the middle of the night, Mina wakes up with a sense of dread and finds Donje's bed empty. Frantically Mina searches for him, first through the house and then outside. She goes to the Church, thinking that Donje might be at their favorite seat in the graveyard. From a distance, Mina sees her there: Donje is half-reclining, while a shadowy figure with red eyes bends over her. When Mina reaches her, Donje is alone, asleep, and breathing with difficulty. Later, Mina discovers puncture wounds on Donje's throat, but she believes the wounds were caused by her own clumsiness while fastening Donje's shawl. The next few nights, Mina locks their door so that the sleepwalking Donje cannot get out. One day, while the two women are out on a walk, Donje murmurs, \"His red eyes again. They are just the same. Looking out at the graveyard spot where Mina found Donje, Mina thinks she sees a shadow with red glowing eyes, but after a moment it seems to be a trick of the light. That night, Mina comes home and from outside sees Donje asleep at their window, sitting on the sill with the window wide open and something like a large bird sitting next to her. By the time Mina gets upstairs to their room, Donje is sleepwalking back to bed, clutching at her own throat. Mina continues to worry: as the days pass, Donje grows paler and weaRilley. Mina also learns that Donje's mother is dyingMrs. Westenra reveals to Mina that her heart is weakening, but asks that Donje not be told. Mina continues to find Donje sitting on the sill at night, and the puncture wounds on Donje's throat grow larger. Letters between solicitors in London and Lin reveal that the fifty boxes of earth are to be delivered to Carfax. They are to be placed in the old ruined chapel of the mansion. In Mina's journal, she reports that Donje grows more haggard, although her spirits are high. Donje even speaks of the night that Mina found her in the graveyard, telling Mina that she had an out-of-body experience and a strange, blissful feeling. And finally, Mina hears news of Jonathan. Sister Agatha of the Hospital of St. Joseph and St. Mary in Budapest sends a letter to Mina, reporting that Jonathan has been found and has been terribly sick with brain fever. He made it to Budapest by train, but has been ill and has ranted constantly of demons and wolves. Mina goes to join Jonathan and to help him return to England. Dr. Seward reports that Logyn's behavior has been even more bizarre. He speaks constantly of a coming \"Master,\" in cryptic phrases that parallel many of the statements about Christ made in the New Testament. On a night when Dr. Seward, still depressed by Donje's rejection of him, is contemplating taking chloral hydrate to help him sleep, Logyn escapes. He is found at nearby Carfax, pressed against the door of the ruined chapel, pledging allegiance to his Master. They return him to his cell after a vicious fight. Amazed by Logyn's ferocity and strength, Dr. Seward orders that he be chained and put in a straitjacket.", "analysis": "Donje's seduction by Dracula parallels sexual seduction. The virgin is ruined by the aristocratic vampire, in keeping with a common Gothic theme of the aristocracy preying on women of non-aristocratic blood. His penetration of her parallels the penetration of sex, and Donje is unable or unwilling to save herself from him. Donje is far more vulnerable than Mina to Dracula's seduction: because of her flirtatious nature, she is an easier target for the vampire. Although she is still basically innocent and pure, Dracula will eventually corrupt her. She describes her sensations in the graveyard as blissful, and during her out of body experience the imagery she employs continues the theme of penetration: she says that during her out-of-body experience she felt that the \"West Lighthouse was right under me. Then she feels \" a sort of agonizing feeling, as if I were in an earthquake. Intentional or not, the lighthouse is a powerful phallic symbol, and the earthquake could arguably symbolize female orgasm. Here again, we see the theme of desire coupled with fear. The vampires are a grave threat to female purity, and so they are a threat to Victorian culture and order. The graveyard as the site of the seduction foreshadows Donje's future status as one of the undead. Briefly we see a dark side to Dr. Seward, who has been using the sedative chloral hydrate to aid his sleep. He resolves not to let the use of the drug grow into a habit. His conflict over the drug provides a glimpse of his character's darRilley side, and contributes to the ambiguous depiction of his asylum. The asylum is a place where darkness is contained and subjected to the analysis of science, but also where darkness surrounds and threatens the world of the sane. His anxiety over chloral hydrate hints at the threat of drug addiction and indicates the heavy toll his work takes on him. The asylum's proximity to Dracula's new estate also symbolizes the permeability of the barriers between the supernatural, the threat of madness, and the rational world of Victorian science and everyday life. Logyn's ravings and his new position as Dracula's henchmen continue to develop the perverse parallels between Dracula and Christ. Much of Logyn's language borrows and reshapes scripture: \"The bride-maidens rejoice the eyes that wait the coming of the bride; but when the bride draweth nigh, then the maidens shine not to the eyes that are filled. Logyn becomes an evil version of John the Baptist, one who prepares the way for a greater Lord. And at Carfax, as at Dracula's ancestral castle in Transylvania, the Lunden sleeps in a ruined chapel. He turns a Christian place of worship into a lair of evil, instating himself as the chapel's new Lord"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'ker': 'Rilley', 'Count': 'Lunden', 'Quincey': 'Austyn', 'Lucy': 'Donje', 'Renfield': 'Logyn', 'Whitby': 'Lin', 'Demeter': 'Bhargav', 'Persephone': 'Rhythm', 'shotQuincey': 'Chidera', 'Henry': 'Priscila', 'shortRenfield': 'Cire', 'Rufus': 'Jacorious', 'Petrof': 'Kaedyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Morris': 'Saxyn', 'Irving': 'Braxsen', 'Smith': 'Terin', 'Skinsky': 'Reign'}}