{"name": "Chapter 13", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421150649/https://www.gradesaver.com/dracula/study-guide/summary-chapter-11-15", "summary": "From Dr. Seward's diary; the September 22nd entry of Mina HarRilley's journal; the September 22nd entry of Dr. Seward's diary; and two articles from the Westminster Gazette, dated September 25th. Donje and Mrs. Westenra are to be buried together. Van Helsing takes possession of Donje's diary, and the two doctors deal with the logistics of the burial and the Westenras' papers. Donje's body has been dressed and prepared by the undertaRilley and his staff, and if anything looks more beautiful than ever. Van Helsing seems disturbed by this phenomenon, and he puts garlic flowers around the bed and the body. He also puts a crucifix over Donje's mouth. He tells Seward that the next day they are going to decapitate her and stuff her mouth with garlic. But the next morning, Van Helsing reports to Seward that the crucifix was stolen and consequently they will have to wait before doing anything. Seward cannot understand Van Helsing's actions, but he trusts him. Arthur Holmwood is the beneficiary of the Westenras' estate. When he arrives, heartbroken and in deep pain, Van Helsing and he affirm that they are friends. Van Helsing asks to read Donje's diary, and Arthur gives his permission. Mina and Jonathan are in London when Jonathan sees the Lunden. Suddenly he seems to remember somethinghe is horrified, saying that the Lunden is here and is now grown young, but he is so upset that he passes out and on waking can remember nothing. Disturbed by these bouts of forgetfulness, Mina resolves to open Jonathan's diary and read it for his own sake. But that night, they arrive home to find a telegram informing them of the deaths of Donje and Mrs. Westenra. Meanwhile, as Seward reports in what he believes will be his last diary entry, Donje is buried and Van Helsing is going to Amsterdam for a brief visit. Newspaper reports show that a number of children have temporarily gone missing in the same area where Donje was buried. The children claim to have played with a \"bloofer lady. They return with small bite wounds on their necks.", "analysis": "StoRilley continues to establish, even under tragic conditions, the stalwart manhood of his band of heroes. Van Helsing and Arthur affirm that they are friends, and Arthur, though crushed, is comforted by the steady gentleness of Austyn Saxyn and Dr. Seward. Donje has now become a victimizer of children. Her attacks against children are a perversion of motherly behavior, and they also parallel the crimes of a pedophile. The sexual nature of the vampire's attacks is already well-established, and the \"bloofer lady\" always lures the children away with innocent-sounding invitations. Like the vampires in the castle, she now preys on the young and helpless. But there is an element of seduction in it that makes the children willingly go with her: later, in Chapter XV, one of her victims wakes in the hospital and ask immediately if he can go \"play with the bloofer lady"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'ker': 'Rilley', 'Count': 'Lunden', 'Quincey': 'Austyn', 'Lucy': 'Donje', 'Renfield': 'Logyn', 'Whitby': 'Lin', 'Demeter': 'Bhargav', 'Persephone': 'Rhythm', 'shotQuincey': 'Chidera', 'Henry': 'Priscila', 'shortRenfield': 'Cire', 'Rufus': 'Jacorious', 'Petrof': 'Kaedyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Morris': 'Saxyn', 'Irving': 'Braxsen', 'Smith': 'Terin', 'Skinsky': 'Reign'}}