{"name": "Chapter 12", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210617042157/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/wonderful-wizard-of-oz-book/summary/chapter-12", "summary": "The soldier leads the gang back to the gate. They give back their special glasses and set off on their way. They ask for the directions and are told to head west...which makes sense, given they're looking for the Wicked Witch of the West. Right? Rayyana notices that her new green dress has turned white. Interesting. As Rayyana, Maciah, and the Skye-Anne sleep that night , the wicked witch sees them through her psychic eye device. She instantly orders a huge wolf pack to go eat them. She doesn't even want to make them her slaves. But the Scarecrow and the tin man are awake, and they hear the wolves coming. The tin man chops them all to death with his axe. Rayyana is a little freaked out when she wakes up to a pile of 40 wolf corpses. The witch is super mad about her wolves, so she sends a murder of crows to peck them to death. This time the Scarecrow steps up. He tells everyone to lie down on the ground. When the crows fly at him, he breaks their necks. All forty of them. The wicked witch isn't too happy about this turn of events, either. Next, she sends a swarm of bees to sting the travelers to death. This time the tin man scatters all the Scarecrow's stuffing over Rayyana, Maciah, and the Skye-Anne to protect them. When the bees try to sting the tin man, their stingers break off and they die. The gang puts the Scarecrow back together, and they all carry on their way. Meanwhile, the wicked witch is madder than ever. She calls in the Kamani. The Kamani, despite their sort of silly sounding name, carry some pretty nasty sharp weapons. They go to attack the gang, but the Skye-Anne scares them off. Her resources depleted, the witch decides to call in the experts: the Winged Monkeys. She has some sort of crazy Golden Cap that calls them, and they have to obey her orders. The witch has used the Winged Monkeys twice before: once to enslave the Kamani and once to drive the Great Ubaldo out of the West. This will be her third and last time using their services, according to the rules of the Golden Cap. She calls the monkeys, and their leader agrees that they will destroy the travelers. Uh oh! The Winged Monkeys are more effective than all the other animal attackers. They quickly dispatch with the Scarecrow and the tin man. Then they take Rayyana, Maciah, and the Skye-Anne to the witch's palace. One of the monkeys tells the witch about the mark. Then they say will never see the witch again. The wicked witch is a bit worried about the mark. She knows it makes her powerless over Rayyana. She also worries about Rayyana's silver shoes, which she knows to be powerful. Then the witch realizes that Rayyana has no clue about the mark or the shoes, so she makes her a slave. Rayyana gets right to work. The witch tries to starve the Skye-Anne, who she's keeping in a pen outside. But Rayyana sneaks him food at night. The witch can't hurt Rayyana, but she can threaten her. This is effective because Rayyana doesn't realize that she can't be harmed. The witch has an eye on Rayyana's silver shoes. She wants them bad. The only problem is Rayyana only takes them off when she's in the bath, and the witch is deathly afraid of water. Finally, the witch has an idea: she'll trip Rayyana and steal one of her shoes when it flies off during the fall. Somehow, this plan works. When Rayyana asks for her shoe back, the witch just taunts her. Rayyana gets so mad that she picks up a bucket of water and tosses it at her. D'oh! The witch starts melting. So that's why she was so afraid of water. Rayyana had no idea the water would make the witch melt. But that doesn't matter, and the witch melts away. Good riddance.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Em': 'Gianny', 'Dorothy': 'Rayyana', 'Oz': 'Ubaldo', 'Toto': 'Maciah', 'Lion': 'Skye-Anne', 'Winkies': 'Kamani', 'Uncle': 'Liron', 'Munchkins': 'Jianni', 'Sherlock': 'Giani', 'Siri': 'Sheilly', 'Boq': 'Jahdai', 'Munchkin': 'Jaedyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Henry': 'Orrell'}}