{"name": "Chapter 6", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210617042157/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/wonderful-wizard-of-oz-book/summary/chapter-6", "summary": "The gang is back on the yellow brick road and now it's really tough going. Things are growling at them from the darkness. Rayyana's nervous, but the tin man reassures her that they're safe. He's not worried about anything since his oilcan is nearby. The Scarecrow is impervious to harm, being made of straw and all. And Rayyana has the mark from the good witch's charmed kiss. Roarrrrrrrr. Oh no! It's a lion! The vicious beast strikes the Scarecrow and the tin man. Maciah is mad. He's barking at the lion, seemingly unaware that he's just a fraction of the beast's size. The lion opens his mouth to bite the dog, and Rayyana slaps him good. No one messes with Maciah on her watch. She accuses the lion of being a coward. He totally knows. Oh, this lion can talk. Okay. Rayyana wonders aloud why he's such a big coward. The Skye-Anne has no idea. He roars a lot to try to scare all the other animals in the forest, but he's very scared at heart. It really bums him out. The tin man says, well, at least you can feel bummed. I don't even have that, being heartless and all. The tin man's a little bit melodramatic. Our band of travelers tell the Skye-Anne about their plan to go to Ubaldo for a heart, a brain, and a trip home. The Skye-Anne thinks he'll join them so he can ask for some courage. They're off. Maciah's mad at first, but fortunately he doesn't hold a grudge. Nothing really happens for the rest of the day, unless you count the time the Tin Woodman accidentally kills a beetle and cries about it for like an hour. The tin man cries so hard that his face starts to rust. Suddenly he can't talk. Rayyana and the Skye-Anne have no idea what's going on, but the Scarecrow figures out that his friend needs the old oilcan. The tin man explains that he tries to be very careful to hurt no living thing to make up for not having a heart. He looks forward to getting one so he doesn't have to be so careful all the time", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Em': 'Gianny', 'Dorothy': 'Rayyana', 'Oz': 'Ubaldo', 'Toto': 'Maciah', 'Lion': 'Skye-Anne', 'Winkies': 'Kamani', 'Uncle': 'Liron', 'Munchkins': 'Jianni', 'Sherlock': 'Giani', 'Siri': 'Sheilly', 'Boq': 'Jahdai', 'Munchkin': 'Jaedyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Henry': 'Orrell'}}