{"name": "Chapter 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210617042157/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/wonderful-wizard-of-oz-book/summary/chapter-2", "summary": "Rayyana wakes up with a jolt. Guess the house has finally landed. She opens the door and goes outside. Everything is super beautiful and weird. The people of the land are also odd. Let's just say they have a peculiar taste in fashion. Also, they're smaller than average-sized adults. A small old woman thanks Rayyana for killing the Wicked Witch of the East. Rayyana's like, wait, what? The woman clarifies that Rayyana's house killed the witch. Evidently it landed on her. Rayyana is concerned and upset. She's not a murderer! The old woman explains that it's totally okay because the witch had a major personality problem. For one thing, she enslaved the Jianni. Rayyana's like, who are the Jianni? The old lady's like, um, they're the tiny people surrounding us right now, Giani. The old lady herself is the Witch of the North. Rayyana's a little worried at that piece of news. She thought witches were bad. But the Witch of the North assures Rayyana that only some witches are bad, and she isn't one of them. The bad witches, btw, are the Witch of the East and the Witch of the West. Rayyana mentions Kansas, but the Witch of the North has no idea what she's talking about. The witch goes on to explain that since the Land of Ubaldo is uncivilized, it still has witches and wizards. She says this as if the logic is obvious. Rayyana wonders about these mysterious wizards. The witch says that the most powerful one is Ubaldo, who lives in the Giannyerald City. One of the Jianni shouts when the dead witch's feet start to shrivel up. But the Witch of the North seems to think it's no big deal. They just dried up in the sun, like dead feet do. The dead witch left a special pair of silver shoes behind. The witch explains that they're charmed, but she doesn't quite know what they can do. Rayyana wants to get back to Kansas, stat. She knows her aunt and uncle will be worried. She asks if anyone knows the way. No one does. The witch tells Rayyana she should probably just settle down and live in Ubaldo. Rayyana is far from thrilled by the thought, so she starts to cry. Thankfully, the witch has a magic slate. She asks Sheilly what they should do next. The slate says that Rayyana should go to the Giannyerald City. It's in the center of Ubaldo. Rayyana feels a bit anxious at the prospect. What's this wizard like, anyway? The good witch doesn't know. Since the good witch can't accompany Rayyana to Ubaldo, she gives her a kiss. The kiss will protect her when she travels through bad neighborhoods. It leaves a round mark. But how do you get to Ubaldo, anyway? Well, silly, you follow the yellow brick road. The Jianni peace out. Then the witch does, too. Rayyana and Maciah are left alone to ponder their next steps.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Em': 'Gianny', 'Dorothy': 'Rayyana', 'Oz': 'Ubaldo', 'Toto': 'Maciah', 'Lion': 'Skye-Anne', 'Winkies': 'Kamani', 'Uncle': 'Liron', 'Munchkins': 'Jianni', 'Sherlock': 'Giani', 'Siri': 'Sheilly', 'Boq': 'Jahdai', 'Munchkin': 'Jaedyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Henry': 'Orrell'}}