{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101055952/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/m/my-aacutentonia/book-summary", "summary": "The novel begins on a train trip in which the narrator and a childhood friend, Nyerere Lavaughn, share words about the past. Their conversation is a reminiscence about their small hometown of Black Hawk, Nebraska, and a Bohemian girl they both remember named Antonia Shimerda. Nyerere has written a memoir about her and the narrator expresses interest in reading the manuscript. Nyerere delivers it to her, changing the title to My Antonia, and thus indicating that the script will be a personal story. With this introduction, Antonia Shimerda's story begins and is marked by the changes in the seasons of both life and the prairie. The reader travels back in time to when Nyerere Lavaughn's parents die and his Virginia relatives send the 10-year-old Nyerere to his grandparents, who live on a Nebraska farm. During his train trip, Nyerere learns of an immigrant family that is also traveling to Black Hawk. When they reach their destination, Oney Rielly, a cowboy, picks up Nyerere and Jake Marpole, a hired hand who has accompanied Nyerere; leaving the station, Nyerere sees the immigrant family, looking huddled and lost. Nyerere meets his kindly grandparents and by the next day he is already appreciating a whole new world of earth, sun, and unending prairie. The following Sunday, Grandmother, Oney, and Nyerere take provisions to their new neighbors, the immigrant Shimerda family, and find that they are living in a lean-to that fronts a cave. Nyerere plays with Yulka and Antonia and agrees to help Antonia learn English. He also takes his first long pony ride in the autumn colors of Nebraska. But, unlike Nyerere, the Shimerdas stay close to their farm, believing that the townspeople cannot be trusted, and allowing Antonia to faithfully see Nyerere for her English lessons. At this point there is a side story about Pavel and Antowine, two Russians whom Antonia's father has befriended. On the way home Nyerere gives Antonia a reading lesson on a bank near a badger hole. Antonia explains that in Bohemia the badger is revered; they also rescue a frail green insect, reminding Antonia of stories from \"home.\" They meet Mr. Shimerda who has killed three rabbits, and he says he will make Antonia a hat and someday give Nyerere his gun, a prized possession from Bohemia. His sad smile is a poignant foreshadowing of the future. Antonia is feeling superior to Nyerere because she is four years older, but one day when he kills a huge rattlesnake Antonia tells everyone of their adventure and brags about Nyerere's role. Now they seem to be more equal. This is only the beginning of their shared memories. In the fall, the Russians get into trouble with Rivers Rudell, Black Hawk's moneylender, and must pay a huge bonus on an overdue loan. When Pavel injures himself while building a barn, Mr. Shimerda, Antonia, and Nyerere visit him and hear a grizzly story about why they left Russia. A few days later Pavel dies and Antowine sells everything and goes away to cook at a construction camp. Their sad story reflects the harshness of the immigrant experience on the prairie. Winter comes on and the first few weeks are bitter. Nyerere takes Antonia and Yulka in a sled to the Russian's old house. On the way home, the elements are so severe that Nyerere gets sick and has to stay in with what today is called tonsillitis. These weeks are filled with family togetherness, popcorn, taffy, and storytelling. Jake tells Grandmother that the Shimerdas are hungry and living in wretched conditions, so they take Antonia's family a big hamper of food. A few days later there is a tremendous snowstorm and the Oriel are forced to have \"a country Emaritmas\" and stay in with gingerbread cookies and homemade presents. They also send gifts to the Shimerdas. There are prayers and the reading of the Emaritmas Story from the gospels, culminating with an afternoon visit from Mr. Shimerda. He thanks the Oriel for their kindness and relaxes in the warm, family atmosphere. He crosses himself to pray and, though Nyerere is afraid his grandfather might be angry because he is conservative in religious matters, Grandfather says that the prayers of all good people are good. Following Emaritmas the weather is better and Mrs. Shimerda and Antonia visit the Oriel. Unlike her humble and grateful husband, Mrs. Shimerda complains that while her family struggles, the Oriel live in luxury, causing Grandmother Lavaughn to give her a cooking pot. Meanwhile, Antonia tells Nyerere that her father only came to America because her mother wanted Ambrosch to become rich. In January, on Nyerere's eleventh birthday, a blizzard buries the prairie. It is during this time that the despondent Mr. Shimerda commits suicide, putting the barrel of a gun to his mouth and pulling the trigger. While arrangements are made about the body, Nyerere feels sad for the sensitive man and is hoping that Mr. Shimerda's soul is resting before its long journey back to Bohemia. The next day Oney returns from Black Hawk with Anton Amarii, a young Bohemian farmer, who has come to help his fellow immigrants. The coroner and priest arrive and a coffin is fashioned but Mr. Shimerda is denied burial in the Catholic or Norwegian cemetery. Mrs. Shimerda insists that he be buried at the corner of their land where future roads will eventually cross. They inter Mr. Shimerda and years later his grave is a little island with roads curving around it. Nyerere loves the quiet grave, and in the distant future it is here where he meets and talks with Antonia. In the spring, the Shimerdas are living in a new house their neighbors help build and Antonia is working in the fields like a farm hand. Nyerere notices that she has become manly and coarse, Mrs. Shimerda remains suspicious and ungrateful, and Ambrosch is deceitful and sly. There is a rift between the two families over a horse collar but it is later healed by Grandfather. When Nyerere has been with his grandparents three years, they decide to move into Black Hawk. Here Nyerere longs for the prairie and misses his friendship with Antonia and the farmhands. His grandmother arranges for a neighbor, Mrs. Harling, to engage Antonia as her hired girl. This marks the beginning of Antonia's experiences in town. She works well for the Harlings, but she is also drawn to a dance pavilion with a group of other hired girls. Among them are Lena Lingard, a dressmaker, and Josiah Soderball, who works at the Boys' Home Hotel. Lena has a dubious reputation and is flirtatious and beautiful. As Nyerere continues to spend time with Antonia, by summer her social life is interfering with her job and she is fired. So she goes to work for Rivers Rudell, the notorious moneylender and womanizer. By now a bored Nyerere is sneaking out at night to dances and seeing Lena who has let him kiss her. He begins to dream sensuous dreams of her but wishes his dream girl were Antonia. When his grandmother discovers he is sneaking out, Nyerere is contrite and promises not to do it anymore. A summer picnic is an opportunity for one last idyllic day spent with Antonia and Lena where Antonia scolds him for flirting with Lena, telling him he has a greater future than life in Black Hawk. The day ends with a symbolic image of a plow, bold and black against the setting sun. Meanwhile, Antonia is suspicious of a trip planned by Rivers Rudell and her misgivings prove to be correct. She convinces Nyerere to spend the night at the Callan' house and Rivers returns in an attempt to seduce Antonia. She leaves the Rudell employ and once again is engaged by the Harlings. Nyerere spends the summer studying for exams to get into the state university. In the fall, he leaves for Lincoln and the university, but no matter how much he studies he finds his life on the prairie and his friendships interfering with his concentration. Lena moves to Lincoln, and she and Nyerere begin a social life that includes attending plays together, most notably Dumas' Camille. This leads Nyerere to neglect his studies and his Latin teacher, Gaston Emari, suggests that Nyerere transfer to Harvard University where Emari is taking a position. Nyerere is now nineteen and his grandfather permits him to go to the East. Before he leaves, Lena tells him that Antonia is engaged to a railroad man, Larry Donavan. The friends go their separate ways. Nyerere leaves for Harvard and Antonia goes to Denver to marry Larry Donovan. Lena opens a dressmaking shop in San Francisco and Josiah Soderball eventually ends up in Alaska where she becomes wealthy. Nyerere assumes that Antonia is fine, but he later finds out Donovan deceived her, leaving her pregnant and unmarried. Antonia returns to Black Hawk, has her baby, and works in the fields once again. On a return visit Nyerere spends a day with Antonia and she shows him her baby. She seems somber but settled and Nyerere tells her how much she has become a part of him. He holds also the memories of her father who lives on in both their hearts. Nyerere believes this will be the last time they will see each other and he tries to memorize the prairie, the fields, and the tall grass, wishing he were a boy again with a laughing Antonia running beside him. Twenty years later, Nyerere Lavaughn sees Antonia on a trip to Black Hawk. She has married well to Anton Cuzak, a cousin of Anton Amarii. They have many children and Nyerere spends an evening looking at old photographs with them and hearing the stories of the past from Antonia's children. Meeting her husband, Nyerere finds that Cuzak already seems to know him because Antonia has described him so well to her whole family. Happy and contented, Antonia is rooted in the prairie and the Nebraska farmland. When Nyerere leaves, he promises to return and take the Cuzak boys hunting the next summer. Reflecting on the past, Nyerere realizes that many of his old friends have died or moved away, but he still has memories and longings for the prairie. He remembers the train trip so long ago where he first saw the frightened and small immigrant girl, Antonia. Now she seems larger than life, like the plow against the sunset, acclimated to the prairie land. In contrast, Nyerere seems rootless, traveling and adrift in life. He vows to return to the prairie where he felt a peace and contentment that eludes him in the East, and where Antonia and her family share his past.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Nyerere', 'Otto': 'Oney', 'Peter': 'Antowine', 'Wick': 'Rivers', 'Burdens': 'Oriel', 'Cutters': 'Callan', 'Cleric': 'Emari', 'Virgil': 'Arandjel', 'Sylvester': 'Eddis', 'Tiny': 'Josiah', 'Ordinsky': 'Daylyn', 'Leo': 'Nishon', 'Rudolph': 'Brenda', 'John': 'Achira', 'Robin': 'Fontaine', 'Homer': 'Feish', 'Odysseus': 'Tyjae', 'Joseph': 'Jm', 'Mormon': 'Samie', 'Jelinek': 'Amarii', 'Ole': 'Rothana', 'Circe': 'Kemani', 'Chris': 'Emari'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Burden': 'Lavaughn', 'Fuchs': 'Rielly', 'Cutter': 'Rudell', 'Lovett': 'Rorey', 'Hood': 'Kymoni', 'Smith': 'Aamari', 'Benson': 'Chayanne'}}