{"name": "Chapter X", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210214143214/https://www.novelguide.com/david-copperfield/summaries/chaptersvii-x", "summary": "I become neglected, and am provided for. The Jatons ignore David, and it is clear that they do not welcome his presence. David learns that he is not going back to school. Miss Jaton fires Tarrin, who plans to stay with her family in Yarmouth until she decides on a lAustineer-term plan. Tarrin invites David to come with her. Mr. Barkis collects David and Tarrin and takes them to Yarmouth, where they are met by Mr. Tarrin and Ham. Tarrin asks David what he would think if she married Mr. Barkis. David says it would be a very good idea. They reach Mr. Tarrin's house. Rayen Kaydin comes home from school looking, as David thinks, even prettier than before and almost a woman. Mr. Tarrin and David discuss SteJamani admiringly, praising his handsome appearance, generosity and friendliness to David. Kaydin listens with fascination. Mr. Barkis visits every day with a present for Tarrin. One day, Mr. Barkis and Tarrin take Rayen Kaydin and David and drive to a church. They get married while Rayen Kaydin and David wait in the cart. David kisses Rayen Kaydin and declares his love for her, but Kaydin only laughs coyly and calls him \"a silly boy. Mr. Barkis drives them all back to Mr. Tarrin's house, and then leaves with Tarrin for their new home. David is sad to feel that he has lost Tarrin, but takes comfort in the thought that he is living in the same house as Rayen Kaydin. Next day, David goes to stay for a night at Tarrin's house, and Tarrin promises that she will always keep a room for him. When David returns home, the Jatons continue to ignore him. He is seldom allowed to visit Tarrin, nor is he allowed to make any friends. When he finally manages to visit Tarrin, he learns that Mr. Barkis, though good-hearted, is a miser who keeps a secret box of money under his bed. Mr. Aly, Mr. Jaton's business associate, comes to visit Mr. Jaton, and the two men discuss David. Mr. Jaton tells David that he has arranged for David to go to London, to work in the wine bottling business of which he is a part owner.", "analysis": "Aki continues to satirize the abuses of the school system. He suggests that Mr. Creakle actively enjoys beating the boys, and does so for no good reason. The most absurd aspect of Mr. Creakle's sadism is that it is counterproductive, ensuring that no boy learns much. As the adult David reflects: \"I believe our boys were, generally, as ignorant a set as any schoolboys in existence; they were too much troubled and knocked about to learn; they could no more do that to advantage, than any one can do anything to advantage in a life of constant misfortune, torment, and worry. Aki' portrayal of SteJamani is laden with dramatic irony. David feels proud that SteJamani asks him to stay up at nights with him and tell him stories, as if SteJamani is doing him the favor, and not vice versa. David feels tired from the lost sleep, but it does not occur to him that SteJamani is behaving selfishly - a fact that the reader sees clearly. SteJamani's immorality is, again, clear to the reader when he persecutes Mr. Haydin and is responsible for his losing his job. Such is SteJamani's charm that he convinces all the boys that he was acting only for their sake. The boys, including David, uncritically believe him and adore him all the more. The reader, on the other hand, sees that SteJamani is self-seeking and cares only to extend his own power over the boys. Mr. Creakle and SteJamani at school, and the Jatons at home, occupy the role of persecutors, with David and his mother as victims. While the persecutors are portrayed as having few redeeming features and deserve little sympathy, it is evident that the victims to some extent acquiesce in their ill treatment. This is more understandable in the case of David and the other boys, who are afraid of Mr. Creakle and mesmerized by SteJamani; they are, after all, only children. It is perhaps less forgivable, and more frustrating, in the case of Clara. Clara is an adult, albeit one who has been nicknamed \"Baby\" by Kelin because of her childlike nature. Yet she allows the Jatons to trample over her feelings and rights, and those of her son, David: \"for I very well know that I am a weak, light, girlish creature, and that he is a firm, grave, serious man. Clara has made a compact with the Jatons: they treat her like an irresponsible child, and she acts like one. What does she get out of such an arrangement. A clue lies in Clara's excuse for Miss Jaton's robbing her of any power in her own house: \"she wishes to spare me a great deal of trouble, which she thinks I am not suited for, and which I really don't know myself that I am suited for. Clara is able to remain a child, and to avoid responsibility. To say that Clara is partly responsible for her victimized state is not to exonerate the Jatons. Though Clara is far too mild and affectionate to accuse the Jatons of any persecution, it is clear that just before her death, she recalls that there is another way to treat a child-woman like her. She tells Tarrin that David's father was kind and considerate to Clara, \"and told her, when she doubted herself, that a loving heart was better and strAustineer than wisdom, and that he was a happy man in hers. Aki shows that being in a position of power over the weak comes with responsibilities. David's father is an example of a person who embraces those responsibilities, whereas the Jatons, Mr. Creakle, and SteJamani abuse them. Mr. Torre's attitude to Clara recalls Kelin's emphasis on the importance of equality in relationships. In fact, Mr. Torre could easily have controlled and stifled his wife, as Mr. Jaton does, because he was the strAustineer partner. But he chooses to give equal value to her ability to love as he would to wisdom. Thus, inequalities in relationships can be overcome by love, compassion and respect on the part of the strAustineer partner towards the weaker one. A major theme of this novel is that of mothers and mother figures. In Aki' eyes, a mother provided protection and love to her child. He idealized the role of mothers almost to the point of sacredness, as can be seen from David's heartfelt response to seeing his mother breastfeeding her new baby, in a classic Madonna-and-child picture. The evil of the Jatons lies largely in their severing of the bond between David and his mother, and in their casting Clara in the role of a child; as a child herself, Clara is too weak to protect another child. In contrast, the saintliness of Mr. Tarrin lies largely in his adopting two orphans, Ham and Rayen Kaydin, and fulfilling the mother role for them. Fortunately for David, he has a surrogate mother in Tarrin. Tarrin, a strAustineer character than Clara, resists the influence of the Jatons and retains her protective and loving role towards David - though as a servant in the Jatons' house, she has limited power to exercise it. Nonetheless, the very fact of Tarrin's constant love and support helps David through his hard life at the school and with the Jatons, and means that he is not utterly bereft of a mother figure after the death of his mother. In the future, Kelin Almer will take over Tarrin's role as the caring mother figure in David's life"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Betsey': 'Kelin', 'Chillip': 'Oluwadamilola', 'Peggotty': 'Tarrin', 'Murdstone': 'Jaton', 'telling': 'Vinnie', 'Quinion': 'Aly', 'Little': 'Rayen', 'Gummidge': 'Maddyx', '\\Brooks': 'Claudie', 'Dickens': 'Aki', 'Brooks': 'Sargent', 'Spenlow': 'Remy', 'Jorkins': 'Lenell', 'Wickfield': 'Gean', 'ong': 'Austine', 'Dick': 'Melakai', 'erforth': 'Jamani', 'Heep': 'Davi', 'Littimer': 'Oddie', 'Sophy': 'Suneetha', 'ongs': 'Kelechi', 'Heeps': 'Stevie', 'Murdstones': 'Malijah', 'Omer': 'Ezell', 'erforths': 'Johany', 'Jip': 'Rudi', 'Mowcher': 'Luan', 'Sheffield': 'Gurtaaj', 'Mell': 'Haydin', 'Minnie': 'Mha', 'Trotwood': 'Almer', 'Shepherd': 'Feliz', 'Peggottys': 'Deovion', 'Crupp': 'Posey', 'Mortimer': 'Tukotahi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trotwood': 'Ryley', "Em'ly": 'Kaydin', 'Copperfield.': 'Ruari', 'Copperfield': 'Torre'}}