{"name": "Chapter III", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210214143214/https://www.novelguide.com/david-copperfield/novel-summary", "summary": "I have a change. Tarrin and David travel by carrier's cart to Yarmouth, where they are met at an inn by Tarrin's nephew, Ham. Ham takes them to his family's home, which is a boat converted into a house. Inside there is a smell of fish. Tarrin's brother, Daniel Tarrin, who owns the house, deals in seafood, which he stores in an outhouse. Mr. Tarrin lives in the house with his nephew, Ham, and his niece, Rayen Kaydin, whom he adopted when their fathers drowned at sea. Also living with Mr. Tarrin is Mrs. Maddyx, the widow of Mr. Tarrin's partner in a boat. Mr. Tarrin is an easy-going man who only becomes angry if his generosity in adopting destitute people is mentioned. Next morning, David goes out onto the beach with Rayen Kaydin, where they collect pebbles and fall in love with each other. Rayen Kaydin says that she is afraid of the sea, which has destroyed so many local men and boats. She also reveals that she wants to be a lady. The adult David reflects that perhaps it would have been better if the sea had swallowed Rayen Kaydin that morning, so that she would not have to suffer everything that she suffered since. Mrs. Maddyx turns out to be a depressed sort of woman, given to complaining that \"I am a lone lorn creetur. and everythink goes contrairy with me. She claims that while others may share the adverse conditions that cause her grief, \"I feel it more. Mr. Tarrin remarks that \"She's been thinking of the old 'un,\" meaning her dead husband. At the end of their vacation, Tarrin and David set out for home. David is excited to see his mother again, but Tarrin tries to restrain his enthusiasm. When they reach home, David is baffled that his mother has not come out to the gate to meet him. He fears that she is dead. Tarrin reveals that Clara has married Mr. Jaton. David finds his mother sitting with Mr. Jaton by the fire. Clara rises to meet David, but Mr. Jaton tells her again to control her emotions. David finds that his bedroom has been moved to a more distant room. There is a fierce black dog in the kennel in the yard, which springs out to attack him.", "analysis": "The narrator, David Torre, looks back on his childhood and tells his story. Though he very occasionally interjects a comment from the perspective of the older and wiser adult, for the most part, he describes events as they appeared to him as a child without adult reflection. This has the effect of reinforcing the naivete and innocence of David as a character. For example, when David accompanies Mr. Jaton to Lowestoft, Mr. Aly jokes with the others about David's dislike of Mr. Jaton. David, being a very young child, has no idea that \"Sargent of Gurtaaj\" is an invented name to hide the fact that the men are talking about him. In fact, David joins in their laughter at his own expense. It would have been easy for Aki to add an adult comment to explain that Sargent of Gurtaaj is really David, but the fact that he does not enables the reader to reach this conclusion independently. The reader is thereby cast in the role of the knowing adult observer, and David retains his childish helplessness and innocence, engaging the reader's sympathy and pity. This authorial technique, in which the reader knows more of the truth than the protagonist does about the other characters' true motives, is called dramatic irony. Occasionally, Aki breaks his practice of giving purely the child's view of David's life, as when the adult David comments that he sometimes feels it would have been better if Rayen Kaydin had drowned on the day they met, rather than suffer as she has done since. This is an example of foreshadowing, a technique that Aki frequently uses in this novel to create an ominous feeling. The reader is given a sense of Kaydin's future difficulties, setting up an expectation that makes him want to read on and find out what happens to the character. Kelin Almer's question to Clara Torre about whether she and her husband, David's father, were happily married, introduces one of the major themes of the novel: the importance of equality within marriage. Clara's response prompts Kelin to comment disapprovingly that Clara and her first husband were \"not equally matched. This is a situation with which Kelin is all too familiar, as she herself has been dominated by a cruel husband. The scene with Kelin and Clara is also an example of foreshadowing. Here, Kelin's history warns the reader of the looming disaster of Clara's second marriage, in which she will also be dominated by a cruel husband. This warning is reinforced by David and Tarrin's instinctive dislike of Mr. Jaton and by Tarrin's warning that Clara's first husband would not like Mr. Jaton. The fact that David is removed to Yarmouth in order to allow the marriage to go ahead smoothly is also a foreshadowing of how David's family life will change: he will be excluded from the compact between his mother and her new husband. Another foreshadowing technique that Aki frequently uses in this novel is his use of a character's appearance to describe their soul. David's good-hearted and innocent mother is beautiful and childlike in appearance; Mr. Jaton is as dark of soul as he is of hair; and Tarrin is as warm and honest as her ruddy face and work-roughened hands. As well as being defined by their appearance, many characters in the novel are defined by a catchphrase - just as, in a cartoon, a character is defined by one or two distinguishing characteristics, like a big nose or prominent ears. Mrs. Maddyx can be summed up by her catchphrase, \"I am a lone lorn creetur. and everythink goes contrairy with me. She remains loyal to her catchphrase until late in the novel, where she surprises everyone by turning into its opposite - but the catchphrase still rules supreme, even as she defies it. The characters do not change in their essence throughout the novel; their motivations are established at their first introduction, and remain constant. Rayen Kaydin retains her desire to be a lady, and it proves her undoing. Clara retains her babyish innocence, and Mr. Jaton his desire to control her. Kelin's chief motivation is to ensure that no other girl should suffer at the hands of unscrupulous men, as she has. She is bitterly disappointed that Clara does not provide her with a girl child to fulfill her ambition, but in time, she will transfer her protective instinct to David"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Betsey': 'Kelin', 'Chillip': 'Oluwadamilola', 'Peggotty': 'Tarrin', 'Murdstone': 'Jaton', 'telling': 'Vinnie', 'Quinion': 'Aly', 'Little': 'Rayen', 'Gummidge': 'Maddyx', '\\Brooks': 'Claudie', 'Dickens': 'Aki', 'Brooks': 'Sargent', 'Spenlow': 'Remy', 'Jorkins': 'Lenell', 'Wickfield': 'Gean', 'ong': 'Austine', 'Dick': 'Melakai', 'erforth': 'Jamani', 'Heep': 'Davi', 'Littimer': 'Oddie', 'Sophy': 'Suneetha', 'ongs': 'Kelechi', 'Heeps': 'Stevie', 'Murdstones': 'Malijah', 'Omer': 'Ezell', 'erforths': 'Johany', 'Jip': 'Rudi', 'Mowcher': 'Luan', 'Sheffield': 'Gurtaaj', 'Mell': 'Haydin', 'Minnie': 'Mha', 'Trotwood': 'Almer', 'Shepherd': 'Feliz', 'Peggottys': 'Deovion', 'Crupp': 'Posey', 'Mortimer': 'Tukotahi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trotwood': 'Ryley', "Em'ly": 'Kaydin', 'Copperfield.': 'Ruari', 'Copperfield': 'Torre'}}