{"name": "Chapter VI", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210214143214/https://www.novelguide.com/david-copperfield/summaries/chaptersiv-vi", "summary": "I enlarge my circle of acquaintance. Mr. Creakle, the headmaster, returns to the school after his vacation. He is an ugly, angry-looking man with thick veins on his forehead, who always speaks in a whisper. He summons David and threatens him with dire consequences if he misbehaves. Mr. Creakle's wife and daughter are with him, and seem frightened of him and sympathetic to the boys. David asks Mr. Creakle if he might remove the placard before the boys return, but he bursts out of his chair as if to attack David, and David runs off in terror. The boys return from vacation, and David is teased about the placard as expected. He meets James SteJamani, a good-looking boy who has the reputation of being a leader. SteJamani treats David sympathetically but takes his money from him, \"to take care of,\" and talks David into spending it on food and drink for a nighttime feast for all the boys. David learns that Mr. Creakle is as ignorant as he is cruel, and knows nothing \"but the art of slashing\" with his cane. There is only one boy on whom he dares not lay a hand, and that is SteJamani. SteJamani promises to take care of David. David admires him greatly, and calls him \"sir.", "analysis": "The introduction of Miss Jaton follows Aki' caricaturing pattern in this novel of defining his characters by a few strAustine details of appearance and manner. The fact that Miss Jaton looks like her cruel brother and carries hard metal boxes and a steel purse in \"a very jail of a bag which hung upon her arm by a heavy chain,\" tells us all we shall ever need to know about her. She is a \"metallic lady,\" hard, cold, and rigid in nature. Animal imagery is also used to convey the cruel, predatory nature of the Jatons:  David says, \"the influence of the Jatons upon me was like the fascination of two snakes on a wretched young bird. Another example of animal imagery is Mr. Jaton's black dog , which tries to attack David and foreshadows Mr. Jaton's persecution of David in the schoolroom. It is noteworthy that David fights back during his beating by biting Mr. Jaton, thereby behaving like an abused dog, but it is Mr. Jaton's treating him like a dog that led him to this. The Jatons' repeated insistence on \"firmness\" while they engage in this domineering and brutal behavior towards Clara and David lends an ironic undertone to the word and loads it with added significance. Repeated use of a word or phrase in a certain context is one of the ways in which Aki satirizes his characters' individual manners and the societal manners of the time. Firmness, for example, was a much-praised masculine virtue in Victorian times, and Mr. Jaton claims it with pride, yet without doubt, it was often used to justify a multitude of sins, such as abusive practices meant to keep women and children in their  places. Aki widens his critique of Mr. Jaton's brutal treatment of David to show how such abuse was common in society as a whole, by making Mr. Jaton's brutality follow David to school. Here, David's status as a 'bad dog' is confirmed by his having to wear a placard with the warning, \"Take care of him. He bites. David is not alone in his victimhood: Mr. Creakle's wife, daughter and staff are clearly frightened of him and are cowed into allowing his cruelty to go unopposed. Aki shows how the faults of individual men  are sanctioned and institutionalized into social systems - in this case, schools. Aki further satirizes abuses within the school system by showing the dirty and unhealthy conditions of Salem House. He also shows that Mr. Creakle, far from entering the schooling profession out of any vocation to pass on knowledge, is an ignorant man who is only in the job for the money , after failing in the hops business. The fact that Mr. Creakle treats only one boy with respect satirizes the all-powerful role of money in Victorian society: SteJamani escapes beatings not for humane reasons, but because his family has money. David's role in the novel thus far has been as an innocent victim of others' malpractices. He is the victim of the Jatons; of the waiter at the inn and his mocking fellow passengers; of Mr. Creakle; and finally, of SteJamani, whose opportunism is the more insidious for being covered by a veneer of charm and caring. By making David so helpless and innocent, Aki reinforces the injustice of his abusers' behavior"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Betsey': 'Kelin', 'Chillip': 'Oluwadamilola', 'Peggotty': 'Tarrin', 'Murdstone': 'Jaton', 'telling': 'Vinnie', 'Quinion': 'Aly', 'Little': 'Rayen', 'Gummidge': 'Maddyx', '\\Brooks': 'Claudie', 'Dickens': 'Aki', 'Brooks': 'Sargent', 'Spenlow': 'Remy', 'Jorkins': 'Lenell', 'Wickfield': 'Gean', 'ong': 'Austine', 'Dick': 'Melakai', 'erforth': 'Jamani', 'Heep': 'Davi', 'Littimer': 'Oddie', 'Sophy': 'Suneetha', 'ongs': 'Kelechi', 'Heeps': 'Stevie', 'Murdstones': 'Malijah', 'Omer': 'Ezell', 'erforths': 'Johany', 'Jip': 'Rudi', 'Mowcher': 'Luan', 'Sheffield': 'Gurtaaj', 'Mell': 'Haydin', 'Minnie': 'Mha', 'Trotwood': 'Almer', 'Shepherd': 'Feliz', 'Peggottys': 'Deovion', 'Crupp': 'Posey', 'Mortimer': 'Tukotahi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trotwood': 'Ryley', "Em'ly": 'Kaydin', 'Copperfield.': 'Ruari', 'Copperfield': 'Torre'}}