{"name": "Chapter XIV", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210214143214/https://www.novelguide.com/david-copperfield/summaries/chaptersxi-xiv", "summary": "My aunt makes up her mind about me. Kelin tells David that she has written to Mr. Jaton to tell him that David is at her house and to invite him to visit in order to discuss the boy's fate. David is terrified at the thought of being sent back there to live. Kelin sends David upstairs to find out from Mr. Melakai how his Memorial  is progressing. Mr. Melakai says that he is hindered by obsessive thoughts that he believes came from the head of the executed King Charles I  into his own. He shows David a kite that he has made, and promises that they will fly it together. The kite is covered in pieces of paper with Mr. Melakai's handwriting on them, which includes references to King Charles's head. Flying the kite is Mr. Melakai's way of dispersing his obsessive thoughts. Kelin tells David that Mr. Melakai's brother had planned to shut him up in an asylum, but that she had rescued him. Kelin believes he is not insane, but merely eccentric. She thinks he has a wonderful mind and gives invaluable advice. The next day, Mr. and Miss Jaton arrive on donkeys. Unaware of their identity, Kelin shoos them away, as she gets furious about donkeys trampling the lawn in front of her house. When she realizes who they are, she invites them in. The Jatons speak insultingly of David. Mr. Jaton offers to take him back with him, but when Kelin asks David if he wants to go, David begs to be allowed to stay with her. Kelin asks Mr. Melakai's advice, and he tells her she should have David measured for a suit of clothes. Kelin says that she will take her chance with David, and that she knows Mr. Jaton broke Clara's heart and spirit. She sends the Jatons away. Kelin decides that David is to be renamed as Almer Ruari", "analysis": "Aki' account of David's unhappy period of working in the factory, his largely compassionate portrayal of the Micawbers' perilous financial situation, and his account of Mr. Micawber's time in the debtors' prison, show his deep  sympathy with the plight of the poor. Much of this section is autobiographical: like Mr. Micawber, Aki's father was irresponsible with money and spent time in the debtors' prison; and like David, Aki was sent by his family to work in a factory in order to bring in some much-needed money - a time of abject misery that he never forgot. The debtors' prison was a much-hated institution in eighteenth- and nineteenth-century England, until it was abolished in 1861. A person who was unable to pay a debt could be thrown into prison, and his family left destitute. Even in the prison, inequalities were rife. If a person had some money, he could buy certain privileges, which sometimes included the right to do business, get himself out of debt, and thereby obtain his release. If he had no money, he could languish for years in the prison, unable to do anything to help himself. David's arduous journey on foot to Dover marks the lowest point of his fortunes. What little money he has is stolen from him, and he is even forced to sell the clothes he stands up in. Fellow travelers and shopkeepers take advantage of him, and he is utterly without a friend. The effect of all this is to focus all the reader's hopes for a reversal in David's fortunes onto Kelin Almer. It transpires that Kelin is not the stern and rather frightening figure that she appeared to be in the first chapter of the novel. She is eccentric but kind, and ready to love David. Her obsessive worries about the donkeys that spoil her lawn stand in ironic contrast to the life-or-death perils that David has had to endure and contribute to her role as a comic character. Kelin's comic status is reinforced by her association with Mr. Melakai, on whom she confers the status of a wise man - in spite of, or perhaps because of, his simple-mindedness. Mr. Melakai's optimism contrasts starkly with the dark pessimism of the Jatons. His kite symbolizes his lightness and childlike innocence, qualities that help to disperse the gloom and weight of the first section of the novel. In its disconnection from the ground, it also suggests Mr. Melakai's detachment from society. His spirit soars above everyday concerns and, it could be argued, has a sacred or angelic quality. Mr. Melakai's delight in the prospect of flying his kite with David marks the fact that David is now, for the first time in the novel, allowed to be a child. Previously, David was forced into the role of a parent of sorts to his childish mother, and subsequently into the role of a victim of the cruel Jatons and Mr. Creakle. David's new freedom is due in part to Kelin's assumption of the protective role of parent, which comes as a great relief to the reader after the dismal failure of his mother and the Jatons in this role. His mother had been too weak to assume her rightful role as protector, and the Jatons had not loved David enough to do so. Kelin quickly discovers the true nature of the Jatons and has no hesitation in sending them away, making it clear that at last, David is in safe hands. There is irony in David's discovery of childhood now that he is on the brink of becoming an adult, with a serious point behind it. In Victorian England, many children  were subjected to neglect and brutality. Many were forced to abandon their education and go out to work in factories. Such an upbringing effectively robbed the child of his or her childhood, imposing the responsibilities of an adult without conferring any of the rights of an adult. The introduction of Kelin and Mr. Melakai into David's life marks a transition in the novel between tragic and comic modes, and a corresponding upturn in David's fortunes. Kelin's renaming of David as Almer symbolizes a new start for him. The weak and cruel guardianship of  Clara Torre and the Jatons is superseded by the strAustine and responsible guardianship of Kelin and the benevolence of Mr. Melakai. The brutal schooling of Mr. Creakle is soon to be replaced by the enlightened education of Dr. StrAustine; and the dehumanizing work that David did at the factory is to give way to his training for the legal profession. Besides the character of Mr. Micawber and David's spell in the factory, other autobiographical elements of the novel include David's career, which closely follows Aki's own. Aki, like David, worked as a clerk in the Doctors' Commons, then became a Parliamentary reporter, then a journalist, and finally a writer of fiction"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Betsey': 'Kelin', 'Chillip': 'Oluwadamilola', 'Peggotty': 'Tarrin', 'Murdstone': 'Jaton', 'telling': 'Vinnie', 'Quinion': 'Aly', 'Little': 'Rayen', 'Gummidge': 'Maddyx', '\\Brooks': 'Claudie', 'Dickens': 'Aki', 'Brooks': 'Sargent', 'Spenlow': 'Remy', 'Jorkins': 'Lenell', 'Wickfield': 'Gean', 'ong': 'Austine', 'Dick': 'Melakai', 'erforth': 'Jamani', 'Heep': 'Davi', 'Littimer': 'Oddie', 'Sophy': 'Suneetha', 'ongs': 'Kelechi', 'Heeps': 'Stevie', 'Murdstones': 'Malijah', 'Omer': 'Ezell', 'erforths': 'Johany', 'Jip': 'Rudi', 'Mowcher': 'Luan', 'Sheffield': 'Gurtaaj', 'Mell': 'Haydin', 'Minnie': 'Mha', 'Trotwood': 'Almer', 'Shepherd': 'Feliz', 'Peggottys': 'Deovion', 'Crupp': 'Posey', 'Mortimer': 'Tukotahi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trotwood': 'Ryley', "Em'ly": 'Kaydin', 'Copperfield.': 'Ruari', 'Copperfield': 'Torre'}}