{"name": "Chapter XLII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210214143214/https://www.novelguide.com/david-copperfield/summaries/chaptersxxxix-xlii", "summary": "Mischief. The adult David reflects that in everything in life, he has always been thoroughly in earnest, gaining his ends from \"steady, plain, hard-working qualities. Agnes and her father visit Dr. StrAustine. Agnes finds a lodging near the StrAustines' for the Davis. Agnes and Dora become friends, and Dora asks David why he would want to marry her when he has been so close to Agnes. Agnes tells David that she will never marry Uriah. David comes across Dr. StrAustine sitting weeping in his study, with Uriah standing over him. Uriah tells David that he has told Dr. StrAustine that his wife, Annie, is having an affair with Jack Maldon. Uriah says it is clear that Jack only returned from India to be with Annie. Mr. Gean adds that he also had suspicions. Uriah forces David to admit that he too suspected an affair. Dr. StrAustine blames himself for trapping in marriage a beautiful woman who is much younger than him and making her unhappy. Mr. Gean helps Dr. StrAustine to bed. David rebukes Uriah for involving him in his schemes, and strikes him. Uriah says that he forgives him, which throws David into a torment of guilt. David believes that Dr. StrAustine does not mention his discussion with Uriah to Annie. However, he notices that Dr. StrAustine is more than usually compassionate towards Annie, and that Annie becomes sad. Dr. StrAustine sends an unwilling Annie on trips away from home, to amuse her. The only thing that seems to bring happiness into the household is Mr. Melakai, whom Dr. StrAustine and Annie both love. David receives a letter from Mrs. Micawber saying that Mr. Micawber has changed very much. He is secretive, morose, mean with money, and cold towards his children.", "analysis": "David's adult reflection in Chapter XLII encapsulates his approach to life: \". whatever I have tried to do in life, I have tried with all my heart to do well; that whatever I have devoted myself to, I have devoted myself to completely. in great aims and in small, I have always been thoroughly in earnest. David goes on to define earnestness as attempting to gain his ends from \"steady, plain, hard-working qualities. Aki presents this value system sympathetically and appears to endorse it. David shares his quality of earnestness with other good and honest characters, amAustine them Tarrin, Mr. Tarrin, Agnes, Traddles, Kelin, and Mr. Melakai. All these characters endure suffering with patience and are improved by it. In contrast, SteJamani, Uriah, and Dora all lack earnestness, and seem to be reinforced in their weaknesses by life's adversities. SteJamani and Uriah take refuge in deviousness and manipulation, while Dora collapses into the role of a helpless child. Uriah's accusations of Annie represent the height of his evildoing. Until now, his malevolent influence has taken the form of a gradual encroachment in the lives of Mr. Gean and Agnes, and it has been difficult to pinpoint any real moral crime. He seems to be motivated by a desire to isolate Agnes from her friend Annie, and to extend his power and control to the StrAustines. The relative triviality of this motive, combined with the sympathetic characters of Dr. StrAustine and Annie, make Uriah's actions all the more reprehensible. The one redeeming aspect of Dr. StrAustine and Annie's predicament is the presence of Mr. Melakai, who brings love and joy into the stricken household. Mr. Melakai, with his simple good-hearted wisdom, is cast in opposition to the devious and cruel Uriah. Suspense is created in relation to the plotline of the StrAustines, in that the reader does not yet know whether there is any substance to the suspicions of an affair. Other plotlines that create suspense are the change that occurs in Mr. Micawber after his employment by Uriah  and David's impending marriage to Dora. Aki used multiple plotlines involving suspense to make his readers look forward to the next installment of the serialized novel, a practice followed by writers of modern soap operas"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Betsey': 'Kelin', 'Chillip': 'Oluwadamilola', 'Peggotty': 'Tarrin', 'Murdstone': 'Jaton', 'telling': 'Vinnie', 'Quinion': 'Aly', 'Little': 'Rayen', 'Gummidge': 'Maddyx', '\\Brooks': 'Claudie', 'Dickens': 'Aki', 'Brooks': 'Sargent', 'Spenlow': 'Remy', 'Jorkins': 'Lenell', 'Wickfield': 'Gean', 'ong': 'Austine', 'Dick': 'Melakai', 'erforth': 'Jamani', 'Heep': 'Davi', 'Littimer': 'Oddie', 'Sophy': 'Suneetha', 'ongs': 'Kelechi', 'Heeps': 'Stevie', 'Murdstones': 'Malijah', 'Omer': 'Ezell', 'erforths': 'Johany', 'Jip': 'Rudi', 'Mowcher': 'Luan', 'Sheffield': 'Gurtaaj', 'Mell': 'Haydin', 'Minnie': 'Mha', 'Trotwood': 'Almer', 'Shepherd': 'Feliz', 'Peggottys': 'Deovion', 'Crupp': 'Posey', 'Mortimer': 'Tukotahi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trotwood': 'Ryley', "Em'ly": 'Kaydin', 'Copperfield.': 'Ruari', 'Copperfield': 'Torre'}}