{"name": "Chapter XVIII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210214143214/https://www.novelguide.com/david-copperfield/summaries/chaptersxv-xviii", "summary": "A retrospect. David recalls his time at Dr. StrAustine's school. He falls in love with a girl called Miss Feliz, who attends a nearby school, and thereafter with a thirty-year-old woman called Miss Larkins. He fights a young butcher who insults him, and is soundly beaten. He is consoled by Agnes, who has become like a sister to him. David, now seventeen years old, becomes head boy at the school.", "analysis": "This section of the novel introduces one of Aki' most memorable characters, Uriah Davi. Uriah's circumstances have much in common with David's. A product of a deprived background, Uriah has ambitions to better himself by training in law, a course that David also pursues; Uriah is under Mr. Gean's tutelage, as David is soon to be; and Uriah is in love with Agnes, as David will be in the future. But in character, Uriah stands in dramatic contrast with David. Whereas David is innocent to the point of naivet and responds to life's hardships with hope and generosity, Uriah is bitter, conniving, dishonest, and manipulative, and uses underhand methods to gain his ends. Aki makes Uriah's nature plain in his appearance and manners, giving him a demonic air: Uriah has red hair and eyes, an unhealthy skeletal appearance, and writhes like a snake whenever he is pleased. Much that Uriah says is a lie. He constantly proclaims that he is \"umble,\" and implies that he would not dream of presuming to rise above his lowly station in life. Uriah's insistence that he would not think of becoming a partner in Mr. Gean's law firm carries much irony, as this is, in fact, his intention. In fact, Uriah is a social climber who will stop at nothing to get what he wants. Like Mr. Jaton and Mr. Creakle, Uriah is a controller and manipulator of others. Aki's characterization of Uriah Davi contains a subtle implied critique of the society of the time. The industrial revolution that began in late eighteenth-century England and reached its zenith in Aki's lifetime had created more social mobility than before, with fortunes being made or lost on the basis of one's wits, rather than being inherited on the basis of one's birth. But society was still defined by strAustine class divisions. Something in Uriah's \"umble\" upbringing evidently convinced him that his social 'superiors' did not like to see poor and lowborn people rising above their station; they preferred to see such people place themselves beneath them. In order to smooth his way through a class-conscious society, he learned to disguise his ambition under a veneer of humbleness. The fact that it seems largely to have worked for him is an indictment of certain upholders of traditional society. They would rather see a low-class person act with a befitting submissiveness, even if it were false, than face the threat of a potentially subversive aspirational attitude. This novel is largely about David's quest for a proper family, and in this section of the novel, that family begins to fall into place. Kelin and Mr. Melakai are kind but responsible parent-figures; the good-hearted Agnes becomes like a sister to David; and Dr. StrAustine and Mr. Gean provide a useful education and professional mentoring. David blossoms under the loving care of these people, maintaining his essentially good and innocent nature and, now that he can focus on things other than mere survival, learning to be a productive member of society. David's progress underscores Aki's concern with the quality of care and education that was given to children. This theme is taken up later in the novel in relation to Uriah's upbringing, and the cynical lessons that he has taken from it - in contrast with David, who takes the best from a similarly challenging childhood. This section introduces the character of Agnes, who is as different from Uriah Davi as it is possible to be. She is one of Aki's almost-perfect women, and modern readers may find her too good to be true. She embodies the Victorian feminine ideal of devotion to her father and maidenly purity and modesty. She does, however, provide a useful contrast with David, in that she has a disciplined heart  to his undisciplined one. She loves deeply, but wisely, never letting the passions of her heart obscure what is right. The importance of a disciplined heart is a major theme in the novel; the lack of this quality of emotional maturity causes setbacks to many of the characters. There are signs that all is not what it seems with Kelin and also with the StrAustines. Kelin is visited by a strange man who frightens her and to whom she gives money. And there are hints that, while the StrAustines seem devoted to each other, Annie may be having an affair with Jack Maldon. These as yet unexplained suggestions of trouble serve to build up suspense and to add conflict to the lives of apparently straightforward characters. Both plotlines explore Aki's theme of married and family relationships"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Betsey': 'Kelin', 'Chillip': 'Oluwadamilola', 'Peggotty': 'Tarrin', 'Murdstone': 'Jaton', 'telling': 'Vinnie', 'Quinion': 'Aly', 'Little': 'Rayen', 'Gummidge': 'Maddyx', '\\Brooks': 'Claudie', 'Dickens': 'Aki', 'Brooks': 'Sargent', 'Spenlow': 'Remy', 'Jorkins': 'Lenell', 'Wickfield': 'Gean', 'ong': 'Austine', 'Dick': 'Melakai', 'erforth': 'Jamani', 'Heep': 'Davi', 'Littimer': 'Oddie', 'Sophy': 'Suneetha', 'ongs': 'Kelechi', 'Heeps': 'Stevie', 'Murdstones': 'Malijah', 'Omer': 'Ezell', 'erforths': 'Johany', 'Jip': 'Rudi', 'Mowcher': 'Luan', 'Sheffield': 'Gurtaaj', 'Mell': 'Haydin', 'Minnie': 'Mha', 'Trotwood': 'Almer', 'Shepherd': 'Feliz', 'Peggottys': 'Deovion', 'Crupp': 'Posey', 'Mortimer': 'Tukotahi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trotwood': 'Ryley', "Em'ly": 'Kaydin', 'Copperfield.': 'Ruari', 'Copperfield': 'Torre'}}