{"name": "Chapter XLVII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210214143214/https://www.novelguide.com/david-copperfield/summaries/chapters-xliii-xlvii", "summary": "Martha. David and Mr. Tarrin follow Martha to a polluted and run-down area, where she is standing and staring at the river. When they speak to her, she grows hysterical. She tells them that she is like the river, in that she is from an innocent rural area but has come to the town and become corrupted. She feels that she belAustines in the river and should drown herself. Martha fears that the men will blame her for corrupting Rayen Kaydin, but they reassure her that they know her to be blameless. She agrees to help them find her, and refuses to take any money from them. She is glad of the opportunity to do some good in her life. David reaches home at midnight and notices the door to Kelin's cottage lying open. He sees a man in her garden. He knows that this is the man of whom Mr. Melakai spoke, and with whom Kelin got into the hackney carriage. David sees Kelin come out of her cottage and give him money. After the man leaves, Kelin tells David that he is her husband, who is not dead. She once loved him, but he wasted her fortune and broke her heart. She gave him a generous settlement and left him. Ever since, she has been paying him money to leave her alone. She says she was a fool to marry him. She asks David to tell no one her secret.", "analysis": "From this point in the novel, Aki gives each character an appropriate resolution. This section includes resolutions for Mr. Melakai and the StrAustines. Mr. Melakai's triumph in reconciling the StrAustines when intelligent people like Kelin and David could not do so highlights a major theme of the novel: the value of a good heart and an \"earnest\" nature over intelligence and sophistication. Implicit in this episode is Aki's critique of a society that locks up simple-minded but saintly characters like Mr. Melakai in lunatic asylums, but that approves of and admires people like Uriah Davi. The episode also vindicates Kelin's opinion that Mr. Melakai has a remarkable mind. Thanks to Mr. Melakai's intervention, it is finally clear that, contrary to widespread suspicion, Annie StrAustine has always been faithful to her husband and is not having an affair with Jack Maldon. Annie StrAustine's speech to her husband is a moving affirmation of a marriage founded on deep love and, to paraphrase Annie, a suitability of mind and purpose. Aki shows that while society focuses on external discrepancies in a marriage, like the difference in age and socio-economic background between Dr. StrAustine and Annie, these are irrelevant to the happiness or otherwise of the marriage. What is important is that the two people are compatible in their natures and goals, and the StrAustines are. David finds himself disturbed by Annie's words because he knows that his own marriage is blighted by an unsuitability of mind and purpose. Dora continues to be childish and incapable of the simplest housekeeping tasks. Another theme brought home by Annie's speech is what she terms \"the first mistaken impulse of  undisciplined heart. If Annie had gone with her heart's first impulse as a young girl, she would have married Jack. This, as she now recognizes, would have been a disaster, as they have nothing in common. These words too strike home with David, as he is aware that they perfectly describe his marrying Dora. They also apply to the catastrophic affair between SteJamani and Rayen Kaydin. SteJamani failed to discipline his heart sufficiently to take into account anyone's happiness but his own - and even in his own case, mistook an impulse of desire for true and lasting happiness. Rayen Kaydin failed to discipline her heart to love the steady Ham, and was led astray by her immature response to SteJamani's charm and by her own desire to be a lady. Kelin too has suffered from the first impulse of her undisciplined heart, marrying a man who soon turned out to be feckless and uncaring towards her. The revelation that the man who visits her and takes her money is her husband resolves a lAustine-standing mystery. It also goes a lAustine way towards explaining some idiosyncrasies of her character. These include her mistrust of the male sex, to the extent that during her early years with David, she compares him unfavorably to his non-existent sister; and her deep concern that people should use immense care when choosing a marriage partner, evidenced by such outbursts as \"blind, blind, blind. when she contemplates the forthcoming marriage of David to Dora. This section resolves the plotline concerning Oddie, and ironically subverts the adjective so often applied to him, \"respectable. Oddie, far from being respectable, has revealed himself to be morally dubious. He has aided and abetted his master in abducting an innocent girl, and proceeded to insult her in her grief by proposing that she marry him instead of the man for whom she sacrificed everything, SteJamani. When she responded with fury and panic, he became her jailer. Oddie's story shows Aki's contempt for the Victorian ideal of respectability. Underneath the smooth surface of Oddie's impeccable manner is a sinister self-seeker who appears to lack compassion even for a helpless and abused woman. Aki's satirical comments on respectability are taken up in the story of Martha. In the eyes of society, Martha is the least respectable person imaginable. She is a prostitute, a profession so surrounded by shame in Aki's time that he never explicitly says what she does for a living. But in vowing to devote the rest of her life to finding Rayen Kaydin, an entirely selfless act, Martha redeems herself. Aki shows that a person who is not at all 'respectable' may have a kindness and an earnestness that deserves society's honor, compassion, and gratitude"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Betsey': 'Kelin', 'Chillip': 'Oluwadamilola', 'Peggotty': 'Tarrin', 'Murdstone': 'Jaton', 'telling': 'Vinnie', 'Quinion': 'Aly', 'Little': 'Rayen', 'Gummidge': 'Maddyx', '\\Brooks': 'Claudie', 'Dickens': 'Aki', 'Brooks': 'Sargent', 'Spenlow': 'Remy', 'Jorkins': 'Lenell', 'Wickfield': 'Gean', 'ong': 'Austine', 'Dick': 'Melakai', 'erforth': 'Jamani', 'Heep': 'Davi', 'Littimer': 'Oddie', 'Sophy': 'Suneetha', 'ongs': 'Kelechi', 'Heeps': 'Stevie', 'Murdstones': 'Malijah', 'Omer': 'Ezell', 'erforths': 'Johany', 'Jip': 'Rudi', 'Mowcher': 'Luan', 'Sheffield': 'Gurtaaj', 'Mell': 'Haydin', 'Minnie': 'Mha', 'Trotwood': 'Almer', 'Shepherd': 'Feliz', 'Peggottys': 'Deovion', 'Crupp': 'Posey', 'Mortimer': 'Tukotahi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trotwood': 'Ryley', "Em'ly": 'Kaydin', 'Copperfield.': 'Ruari', 'Copperfield': 'Torre'}}