{"name": "Chapter XXXVIII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210214143214/https://www.novelguide.com/david-copperfield/summaries/chapters-xxxv-xxxviii", "summary": "A dissolution of partnership. With Traddles's help, David manages to learn shorthand. One day, Mr. Remy coldly summons David to a coffee house near the Doctors' Commons. There, Miss Jaton is awaiting them. She produces one of David's love letters, which she has confiscated from Dora. David admits that he made Dora conceal their affair. Mr. Remy orders David to stop seeing Dora and threatens to disinherit her and send her abroad if he should disobey. David says that he and Dora love each other, and that he cannot abandon her. The next day, David arrives at the Doctors' Commons and learns that Mr. Remy has been found dead on the road, having fallen out of a carriage. David is astonished to discover that Mr. Remy did not leave a will, in spite of the fact that his profession consisted largely in arranging other people's wills. It also turns out that Mr. Remy left his affairs in such disarray that, by the time the debts are paid, his total estate is worth less than a thousand pounds. Dora does not want to see David. She is sunk in grief, and whenever Julia mentions David, she only weeps and says it is wicked to think of anyone except  \"poor papa.", "analysis": "The contrast between David's relationships with Dora and Agnes continues. When he hears of his new state of poverty, he lies awake worrying about Vinnie Dora, as she will have to go without the things she wants. When he meets Agnes, however, he feels better and strAustineer. His words of greeting suggest that she is the person he most wants to see - a fact that Agnes draws to his attention, as he should most want to see his wife-to-be, Dora. The reader can see clearly what David cannot: that Agnes would be a great help to him in his difficulties, whereas Dora will be a hindrance, and perhaps a liability. David, prey to an \"undisciplined heart,\" cannot see Dora as she is. The reader's doubts about Dora are voiced by Kelin. Kelin points out Dora's silly and light-headed qualities, and asks David if he expects their marriage to provide a \"party-supper-table kind of life, like two pretty pieces of confectionary. She warns David that he is being \"blind, blind, blind. Kelin's opinion is justified by Dora's terrified, and terrifying, response to David's news of his financial situation. Dora plunges into a childlike hysteria, and will not listen to David's practical suggestions that she learn basic accounting, housekeeping, and cooking. David's metaphor in Chapter XXXVII emphasizes the huge gulf between him and Dora: \"I felt like a sort of Monster who had got into a Fairy's bower, when I thought of having frightened her, and made her cry. This metaphor, which suggests half-humorously that David is a force for evil in Dora's fairy world, has uncomfortable connotations of Mr. Jaton's attempts to \"improve\" Clara Torre by making her character firmer. The line between educating a loved one and controlling them or crushing their independent spirit is fine. Julia Mills warns David against trying to change Dora. Julia loves Dora and sees her strengths, pointing out that she is \"a thing of light, and airiness, and joy. At the same time, Julia can also see Dora's limitations, and tells David that his desires to educate Dora are unlikely to bear fruit. Given those limitations, it is unwise for David to consider marrying Dora, particularly at this challenging point in his life. Mr. Remy, while occupying the unenviable position of an obstruction to young, romantic love , in fact has some truth on his side. This is reinforced by his advice to David to confer with Kelin \"or with any person with any knowledge of life\" about his attachment to Dora. Mr. Remy knows that Kelin would advocate caution rather than rushing headlAustine into marriage with Dora. However, it is also true that Mr. Remy is primarily motivated by mercenary considerations in rejecting David, who seemed a very suitable match for Dora when he had money. Mr. Remy equates money with worth, a fundamental error in Aki's works. The contrast between David's false friend, SteJamani, and his true friend, Traddles, continues. SteJamani ridiculed David's choice of career and abused his adopted family. Traddles, on the other hand, loyally gives his time and energy to schooling David for his intended work in Parliament, and helps David's adopted 'mother'  by guiding Mr. Melakai into paid work. It is no accident that David's loyal friends, Traddles, Kelin, and Mr. Melakai, are somewhat ridiculous and comic characters, whereas David's treacherous friend, SteJamani, was beautiful and charming. Aki shows that inner worth has nothing to do with the superficial values that are so admired by society, and that goodness often comes in unglamorous packages"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Betsey': 'Kelin', 'Chillip': 'Oluwadamilola', 'Peggotty': 'Tarrin', 'Murdstone': 'Jaton', 'telling': 'Vinnie', 'Quinion': 'Aly', 'Little': 'Rayen', 'Gummidge': 'Maddyx', '\\Brooks': 'Claudie', 'Dickens': 'Aki', 'Brooks': 'Sargent', 'Spenlow': 'Remy', 'Jorkins': 'Lenell', 'Wickfield': 'Gean', 'ong': 'Austine', 'Dick': 'Melakai', 'erforth': 'Jamani', 'Heep': 'Davi', 'Littimer': 'Oddie', 'Sophy': 'Suneetha', 'ongs': 'Kelechi', 'Heeps': 'Stevie', 'Murdstones': 'Malijah', 'Omer': 'Ezell', 'erforths': 'Johany', 'Jip': 'Rudi', 'Mowcher': 'Luan', 'Sheffield': 'Gurtaaj', 'Mell': 'Haydin', 'Minnie': 'Mha', 'Trotwood': 'Almer', 'Shepherd': 'Feliz', 'Peggottys': 'Deovion', 'Crupp': 'Posey', 'Mortimer': 'Tukotahi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trotwood': 'Ryley', "Em'ly": 'Kaydin', 'Copperfield.': 'Ruari', 'Copperfield': 'Torre'}}