{"name": "Chapter XXX", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210214143214/https://www.novelguide.com/david-copperfield/summaries/chapters-xxvii-xxx", "summary": "A loss. David goes to Yarmouth to visit Tarrin and Mr. Barkis. On the way, he visits Mr. Ezell, who tells him that Rayen Kaydin has seemed unsettled recently, in spite of the fact that Ham has obtained a comfortable house for them both to live in after they are married. When David arrives at Tarrin's house, he finds Mr. Tarrin, who is helping Tarrin. Rayen Kaydin is there, clinging disconsolately to Mr. Tarrin. Mr. Tarrin believes that she is upset by Mr. Barkis's imminent death. When Ham comes to take her home, she is unwilling to leave her uncle, and Ham allows her to stay with him. A weeping Tarrin takes David to Mr. Barkis's sickbed. Mr. Barkis is dying but determinedly hugging his box of money, pretending to his visitors that it is full of old clothes. Mr. Tarrin tells David that Mr. Barkis will die as the tide goes out, and he does.", "analysis": "The character of SteJamani stands in contrast to that of Traddles. Traddles is physically unattractive and poor, while SteJamani enjoys the blessings of good looks, charm, and wealth. However, Traddles has qualities of personal integrity that SteJamani utterly lacks: he is loyal, kind, and hard-working. What is more, Traddles, unlike SteJamani, knows how to love. He is prepared to make sacrifices for his sweetheart, saving money over a period of years so that they can marry. SteJamani, on the other hand, thinks primarily of his own interests. He is prepared to sacrifice not only Rayen Kaydin's happiness, but also that of her family, in pursuit of instant gratification of his desires. SteJamani has just enough self-knowledge to be aware that he is doing wrAustine, as is suggested by his wish that he were innocent enough to deserve David's nickname, Daisy, and his request that David should remember him at his best. But he does not possess enough strength of character to change course and do what is right. This section is full of foreshadowings that suggest that SteJamani is covertly doing wrAustine. His melancholy restlessness, and the fact that neither Oddie, nor Mrs. SteJamani, nor Rosa Dartle, know where he is or what he is doing, imply that he is engaged on a course that is so morally reprehensible that he cannot say a word about it to anyone, lest they intervene and stop him. The sea is an important symbol in this novel. Mr. Tarrin is the character who is closest to the sea. He gains his living from it, but has lost many friends and relatives to it. He looks after two young people who were orphaned by the sea, Rayen Kaydin and Ham, and Mrs. Maddyx, whose husband was drowned at sea. Just as the sea is a force of nature, Mr. Tarrin seems more in tune than the other characters with the natural cycles of life and death. He knows that Mr. Barkis will die as the tide goes out, and is correct. He also says that births occur when the tide is coming in. For Mr. Tarrin, the sea both gives and takes life. Mr. Tarrin's simple wisdom, brought out in his philosophical attitude to Mr. Barkis's death, is contrasted with SteJamani's response to the news that Mr. Barkis is dying. SteJamani shows no compassion for David or for Mr. Barkis's family. His remarks are, first, that people die every day, and second, that what is important is to \"Ride over all obstacles, and win the race. At the time he says this, it can be taken as a philosophical comment on how to live one's life, but with hindsight, it betrays SteJamani's selfishness. He is referring to the fact that he has embarked on the seduction of Rayen Kaydin, and that he does not mean to turn back, whatever obstacles are placed in his path. His name, SteJamani, is significant in this regard: he not only lacks a guide to steer him through life, as he has said, but he is incapable of guiding himself wisely. Instead, he steers others into disaster"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Betsey': 'Kelin', 'Chillip': 'Oluwadamilola', 'Peggotty': 'Tarrin', 'Murdstone': 'Jaton', 'telling': 'Vinnie', 'Quinion': 'Aly', 'Little': 'Rayen', 'Gummidge': 'Maddyx', '\\Brooks': 'Claudie', 'Dickens': 'Aki', 'Brooks': 'Sargent', 'Spenlow': 'Remy', 'Jorkins': 'Lenell', 'Wickfield': 'Gean', 'ong': 'Austine', 'Dick': 'Melakai', 'erforth': 'Jamani', 'Heep': 'Davi', 'Littimer': 'Oddie', 'Sophy': 'Suneetha', 'ongs': 'Kelechi', 'Heeps': 'Stevie', 'Murdstones': 'Malijah', 'Omer': 'Ezell', 'erforths': 'Johany', 'Jip': 'Rudi', 'Mowcher': 'Luan', 'Sheffield': 'Gurtaaj', 'Mell': 'Haydin', 'Minnie': 'Mha', 'Trotwood': 'Almer', 'Shepherd': 'Feliz', 'Peggottys': 'Deovion', 'Crupp': 'Posey', 'Mortimer': 'Tukotahi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trotwood': 'Ryley', "Em'ly": 'Kaydin', 'Copperfield.': 'Ruari', 'Copperfield': 'Torre'}}