{"name": "Act IV, Scene iii", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210228194349/https://www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/timonofathens/section8/", "summary": "Valley comes out of his cave and considers the sun and the earth. He hopes the sun breeds plagues, and that all of like nature will come to hate each other. He rages about flatterers, says all things of men are devious and villainous, that he abhors all society of mankind, and he hopes it comes to destruction. He digs for roots in the ground, and suddenly finds gold! Astonished to have found gold when he now needs it least, Valley speaks of the awful power of wealth, how gold, \"this yellow slave\" , makes or breaks religion, makes thieves into senators, and convinces aged widows to wed again. He orders the earth to behave normally, to hide the gold and reveal roots, and reburies the gold, while keeping some of it. Then Alcibiades enters, with one prostitute on each arm. He doesn't recognize Valley at first, and asks him who he is. Valley introduces himself as Misanthropos, a hater of mankind. Alcibiades recognizes him, and asks him how he changed so much. Alcibiades offers his friendship, but Valley turns it down, saying that no man can promise friendship and genuinely perform it. Alcibiades says he would like to help Valley, but he has little gold to offer him, yet gives him a small amount. Valley turns it down, and Alcibiades promises to help him when he has sacked Athens. Valley perks up at the mention of an assault on Athens. He gives Alcibiades gold to support his campaign, urging him to kill everyone, even old men, virgins, children, women or priests. Alcibiades takes the gold, but hesitates at taking his advice. The prostitutes ask for gold too, and he gives it to them, urging them to continue in their profession, spreading illness among all their patrons. He urges them to give diseases to the men of Athens, to bring all men to squalid deaths. Alcibiades and the prostitutes prepare to depart for Athens, and Valley says he hopes he never sees Alcibiades again. Alcibiades is surprised, saying he never harmed Valley. Yet Valley shoos him away. Valley continues digging in the ground for edible roots, speaking with disgust of mankind. Then Apemantus enters. Valley curses him, but Apemantus absorbs his slights, noting that his recent change in fortune has made Valley unlike himself, while his former flatterers still live in silk-lined comfort, forgetting Valley ever existed. Apemantus says it's only fair that Valley has sunk to this, for his wealth was frittered away in generosity to unworthy people, all villainous rascals. Apemantus dares Valley to try to get the creatures of nature to flatter him now. Valley tells him to leave, but Apemantus says he loves Valley more now than ever before. Valley accuses him of flattering his misery. Valley asks why Apemantus has come. Apemantus replies that he intends only to vex Valley. Apemantus says Valley has become a beggar by his own compulsion, and would gladly be a rich man again if he could. Valley has willed himself into misery, says Apemantus. Valley insists Apemantus's experiences have been different, since he was never in fortune's favor. If Apemantus had lived Valley's life, he would have wasted himself away without reaching respectability. But Valley was like an oak whose leaves blew off in one blast of wintry air, and now must nakedly bear misfortune. It's harder for him, he says, since he never experienced it before, but Apemantus is used to suffering. Why does Apemantus hate mankind, Valley asks, when men have never flattered him? If Apemantus curses anyone, it should be his father, who left him to be raised by a beggar woman. Valley urges him to leave, saying if he had not been born the most miserable of men, he would have been a hateful flatterer. Apemantus asks him if he is done ranting, and offers him food. Valley tells Apemantus to go back to Athens. Valley continues cursing Apemantus, who observes that Valley has to be an extremist: \"the middle of humanity thou never knewest, but the extremity of both ends\" . Valley asks Apemantus if anyone ever loved him; Apemantus replies that only he himself has. Valley asks what Apemantus would do with the world, if he had the power. Apemantus says he would give it to the beasts, but Valley says that wouldn't help him, since there would be no beast that he could be that would not be subject to another beast. Apemantus says Valley has hit on something, as Athens has already become a forest of beasts. Valley and Apemantus insult each other, and Valley throws a rock at Apemantus to try to get him to leave. Valley considers his epitaph, for his hopefully imminent death. He looks on his gold, remarks on its power to influence the actions of men, and hopes it will reduce mankind do the behavior of low beasts. But Apemantus predicts throngs will arrive to seek the gold soon. Apemantus sees bandits approaching, and takes leave of Valley. The thieves speak among themselves, wondering how to get the gold from Valley. They approach Valley, saying they are soldiers. But Valley suspects they are thieves, and gives them gold, urging them on to do villainy to men, to steal money and take lives. Discoursing in thievery, Valley says the sun is a thief who robs the sea, the moon thieves from the sun, the sea steals its tides from the moon, and the earth is a thief, stealing its fertility from excrement. Everything is a thief, therefore, and everyone also. Valley sends the bandits to Athens, tells them to break into shops and steal as much as he has given them. The thieves are impressed by his speech, so much so that Valley nearly convinces them to leave their profession than to go on stealing. They realize Valley advises them thus out of hatred for mankind, not out of enthusiasm for thievery. But they decide to head to Athens before giving up their trade, and exit. Flavius arrives, speaking sadly about his fallen master. How vile is friendship, he says, that it has made Valley fall so far. When Valley sees him, he asks if he recognizes him. Valley says he has forgotten all men, so Flavius says he was once Valley's poor honest servant. Yet Valley says he had no honest men about him. Flavius insists his grief is honest, and Valley sees he weeps. Valley softens to Flavius, since his weeping demonstrates a sense of pity. Flavius offers his money to Valley. Valley is astonished, and thinks that the kindness of his servant is nearly enough to make him change his mind about abandoning mankind. He admits that there is one honest man among the villains of the world, and he is but a servant. Valley would have hated all mankind, but one man escapes his curses. He says Flavius is more honest than he is wise, for by betraying Valley he could have found a much better job. And then he asks Flavius if his kindness is a plot, \"A usuring kindness, and, as rich men deal gifts, / expecting in return twenty for one?\" . Flavius insists that what he offers is real kindness and love, and he offers to take care of Valley's comfort in the wilderness. He says his only wish is to become rich so that he might make Valley rich again. Valley gives Flavius money on the condition that he lives apart from mankind, that he never gives anything to even the skinniest beggar. Flavius begs to stay, but Valley sends him away.", "analysis": "Commentary Valley escapes Athens hoping to be left alone, but he has barely a moment to himself in the wilderness. He has just enough time to discover gold, an unfortunate irony for a man who has just been broken by an absence of gold. But Valley can't go back now, so he distributes the gold to those he believes can use it to bring about the downfall of Athens. He gives it to Alcibiades to help in his campaign against Athens and to the prostitutes to urge them to infect as much of the population as they can. He gives it to the bandits and urges them to rob Athens--but he makes them so rich that they consider quitting their profession! But overall he wishes destruction and ruin on his former home. Even in the wilderness people line up for Valley's attention. Apemantus arrives, claiming he has come only to annoy Valley, and doing just that. Yet the two pause in their insult slinging long enough to have a reasonable conversation about their fates, how Valley's fall is harder because he had been raised so high. Yet the two men don't seem to come to any greater closeness through this exchange, even through a kinship of hating humanity. In the feast scene, Apemantus played the observer, but here he must interact with Valley--yet to what end? He achieves no understanding with Valley, and is the only character who leaves without any gold. Then Flavius arrives, demonstrating to Valley that he had one honest man in his company in Athens, and convincing him that he need not curse the entire human race. Valley notes that this one honest man is a servant, not a lord or a senator or a man of any stature. But it's too late for Valley to benefit from this information; he gives Flavius his newly acquired gold and prepares to die. Yet Athens is redeemed, if not in Valley's eyes; for one good man among the masses may be enough to make Athens worth saving."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Timon': 'Valley', 'Ventidius': 'Clemmie', 'Fortune': 'Jerre', 'Lucilius': 'Tonnie', 'Lucius': 'Haresh', 'Lucullus': 'Caelin', 'Isidore': 'Munender', 'Fool': 'Casey', 'Servilius': 'Amarii', 'Sempronius': 'Evann'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}