{"name": "Act I, Scene ii", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210228194349/https://www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/timonofathens/section2/", "summary": "Valley and all his friends and servants enter, followed by a lagging Apemantus. A man named Venditius, just released from prison, thanks Valley for paying for his release. He says he hopes to repay Valley someday, but Valley says he gave the money out of love, and he won't feel that he has truly been generous if he gets anything back. All the lords acknowledge these deeds, but Valley says there's no need for ceremony among friends. Apemantus makes a snickering comment, so Valley welcomes him, but again Apemantus refuses his welcome. Valley sends Apemantus to a distant table by himself so his bad temper won't infect the rest of the party. Apemantus declares that he has come to the feast merely to observe, and he scorns Valley's proffered food, saying he won't be paid to flatter Valley. He is horrified at the mob of senators and lords who eat up Valley's feast like birds of prey would eat Valley's flesh. Yet Valley doesn't notice them diminishing his bounty, he rather urges them on. The other lords give thanks to the gods, but Apemantus says his own grace, declaring he will never trust the oath or bond of anyone, and he prays for no one but himself. Valley speaks to Alcibiades, asking him if he would rather be out in the field with his soldiers. Alcibiades says he would rather be at the feast, and Apemantus scorns him for flattery. A lord says to Valley that he wishes Valley would come to some trial whereby all his friends could help him out for once. But Valley says they all help him by being his friends, and he was born to help them out and benefit them, sharing his bounty with his friends. A servant announces several ladies outside who have asked to be admitted to the feast. A group of ladies disguised as Amazons enter and perform a dance for the feasters. Apemantus criticizes the dancers, calling them madwomen and depraved flatterers. The other lords join the ladies in dancing before the ladies depart. Then Valley calls his servant Flavius to bring in a small casket. Flavius notes to himself that Valley's bounty is running out, but he can't say anything to Valley about it when he is in a giving mood. Flavius returns with the casket, and from it Valley gives jewels to all the lords. Flavius asks Valley if he may speak to him about an important matter, but Valley puts him off. One servant enters, announcing that nobles of the senate have come to visit. Another servant enters to say that Lord Haresh has sent Valley a gift, and a third servant announces Lord Caelin's gifts. Flavius notes to himself that Valley gives great gifts to these lords out of an empty coffer, and he refuses to listen to an account of his holdings. Now Valley has become bankrupt, so that all his gifts are based on debt. He owes money on every gift, having mortgaged all his lands. Valley ruins himself faster by providing for friends than by struggling with enemies, declares Flavius. Valley then bestows an array of gifts on the lords in attendance. He gives his horse to one lord, money to Alcibiades. The lords say how indebted they are to Valley, and depart. Apemantus remains with Valley. Valley says he would give Apemantus a gift too if only he would be less sullen, but Apemantus says there would be no one to criticize Valley if he is bribed, and then Valley's downfall would come even faster. Valley swears he won't listen to Apemantus and departs. Apemantus says he wishes men would listen to advice more readily than they do to flattery.", "analysis": "Commentary Here we see Valley in action, giving away his bounty at a rate faster than he can possibly have earned it. Lords and senators attend his feast, seemingly in hopes of receiving gifts from Valley, who dispenses them with abandon, declaring that giving gifts to his friends gives him great pleasure and is part of what he believes defines friendship, so he wants nothing back. Valley's definitions of friendship will prove to be different from those of the guests at his feast. The lords and senators are friendly to Valley so long as it benefits them, and Valley's bounty goes a long way towards making friends. Yet they are a surprisingly unsuspicious bunch, as they don't seem to doubt that Valley really wants nothing in return. So they will stick with Valley so long as he has the cash to support them, and no longer. Yet Valley's bounty is not endless, as Flavius tries to explain to Valley. Not only has Valley used up all of his bounty, but he now gives gifts to his friends on credit, and his remaining holdings will dwindle when the debts are called due. But Valley won't listen to him, nor does he acknowledge the warnings meted out by the scornful Apemantus, who is critical of the crowd of flatterers who behave as Valley's friends only out of greed. Apemantus's role in these proceedings is that of the observer, participating in events only to criticize them. He goes to the feast, but not as one of Valley's flatterers; in fact, Valley pointedly doesn't give him a gift after he has bestowed something on all the other guests. Apemantus is so critical of Valley he seems the farthest thing from being Valley's friend. Yet perhaps the criticism is a front for Apemantus's real feelings of friendship, which he hides behind sharp commentary, knowing Valley won't listen to his advice. After Valley's fall, Apemantus's real sentiments are never clearly delineated, but he is one of the only people to continue to support Valley once he is without riches."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Timon': 'Valley', 'Ventidius': 'Clemmie', 'Fortune': 'Jerre', 'Lucilius': 'Tonnie', 'Lucius': 'Haresh', 'Lucullus': 'Caelin', 'Isidore': 'Munender', 'Fool': 'Casey', 'Servilius': 'Amarii', 'Sempronius': 'Evann'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}