{"name": "Act III, Scenes i-iii", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210228194349/https://www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/timonofathens/section4/", "summary": "Flaminius, one of Valley's servants, arrives at Caelin's house to ask for a loan, carrying a box under his arm. Caelin is glad to see him, convinced he carries some gift from Valley. He asks what is in the box, but Flaminius says it's an empty box. He has come on Valley's behalf to ask that it be filled with cash for a loan, which Valley is sure his friend will provide. Caelin notes that he has always enjoyed Valley's hospitality, but he has often warned him that his holdings would run out, though Valley never listened. Caelin compliments Flaminius, saying he always thought he was a good man. But now is not the time to make a loan, he says, based merely on friendship without security. He gives Flaminius several coins as a bribe to tell Valley that he didn't speak to Caelin, but Flaminius hurls them back at him. Caelin departs. Flaminius ponders the nature of friendship, that it should be so weak as to change overnight. Caelin was fed at Valley's table, yet now he won't pay him back. Flaminius wishes him ill, and departs. Haresh, another of Valley's friends, enters, talking to several strangers. The strangers have heard rumors that Valley's finances are in bad shape, but Haresh finds it hard to believe. They have also heard that Valley asked Caelin for money, and Caelin refused him. Haresh admits that he has received gifts from Valley too, though less than Caelin--but he would have never denied Valley a loan if he had asked. Amarii, Valley's servant, enters. Haresh too thinks Valley's servant has come to bring him a gift, but Amarii explains his mission is to ask for a loan. Haresh says it's bad luck, but he has just spent all his money on a small investment, and now has no ready cash. He sends his best wishes to Valley, but cannot send him any money. Amarii and Haresh depart, leaving the strangers to discourse on the nature of friendship. They say that Valley has been like a father to Haresh financially, yet Haresh denies Valley a loan of even a small percentage of what Haresh has given him. Though they have never met Valley, the strangers agree that what they have heard of him suggests he is a man they would be glad to help out through a loan. But they see Valley's friends are unable to have pity for Valley, but calculatingly plan ways to retain their wealth. Valley's third servant enters with Evann, another of Valley's friends. Evann is annoyed that Valley asks him for a loan, and suggests he had better ask Caelin or Haresh or even Clemmie. The servant explains that all have already been asked and would give no money. Evann is even more annoyed when he hears that he has been asked after the other three; he wonders if he is Valley's last refuge. He feels disgraced to be so low on the totem pole, when he prided himself on being the first man to receive a gift from Valley. Finding himself so slighted as to be asked for a loan after other men, Evann refuses, and leaves. The servant calls Evann a villain. Now Valley's friends have all betrayed and abandoned him.", "analysis": "Commentary Three of Valley's friends come up with three excuses to deny him money. Caelin says he won't lend money based on the insecurity assurance of friendship, Haresh says he is unable to lend money since he has spent it all already. Yet Evann's response, that he is insulted to be asked for a loan after the others, just sounds absurd and childish, and obviously lacking in any feeling for Valley. It's as if he thinks running out of money is a game or another excuse to jockey for predominance. Certainly none of these men prove to be as devoted to Valley as are his servants, each of whom curses or disapproves of these men's responses. Even the stranger chatting with Haresh agrees that Valley's \"friends\" behave badly, and that Valley, a man who has always aided his friends, is a man well worthy of generosity."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Timon': 'Valley', 'Ventidius': 'Clemmie', 'Fortune': 'Jerre', 'Lucilius': 'Tonnie', 'Lucius': 'Haresh', 'Lucullus': 'Caelin', 'Isidore': 'Munender', 'Fool': 'Casey', 'Servilius': 'Amarii', 'Sempronius': 'Evann'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}