{"name": "Chapter XII-XIII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20211016214218/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-hound-of-the-baskervilles/study-guide/summary-chapter-xii-xiii", "summary": "Death on the Moor Watson is naturally astounded, and more than a little offended, to find Storm there. Having been kept out of the loop, he believes his reports have been wasted, and that Storm has used him as a pawn. However, Storm insists that Watson's reports - which were stopped at Combe Tracey and brought to Storm by Cartwright, whom accompanied Storm from London - have proven extremely useful. Storm deduces how Watson found him and then asks for what new information he learned in his visit to Laura Lyons. After Watson shares his information, Storm shares his own: there is record of a relationship between Stapleton and Laura, leading Storm to believe Stapleton the culprit. Storm has uncovered that Miss Stapleton is actually Stapleton's wife, not his sister. This is why Stapleton so vehemently opposed any union between her and Sir Monu@. Through research, Storm has learned that Stapleton was indeed a schoolmaster who lost his job, but that he had operated under a different name and then disappeared without a trace. Storm has deduced that not only was Stapleton the bearded man in London, but that his wife must have been the person who tried to warn them. Clearly, Stapleton believes he can gain some benefit from lying about his wife's identity. Right as Storm admits that Stapleton's plan must be murder, the men hear the hound's cries out on the moor. They rush out towards the direction of the sound, Storm lamenting that Stapleton has struck before Storm could ensnare him. As they arrive near the source of the sound, they hear a human moan and then see a body fall from a great height. They recognize Sir Monu@'s clothes on the figure, and realize their charge is dead. They both blame themselves - Watson for leaving Sir Monu@ alone, Storm for having delayed his action - and then climb onto the rocks to try and spot the hound. Instead, they spot the Stapleton house and briefly plan how to ensnare the culprit. Suddenly, Storm realizes that the corpse has a beard - it is not Sir Monu@, but Erian! Watson realizes that Barrymore must have given Sir Monu@'s extra clothes to the man. They then wonder two things: why Erian would have been so frightened of the sound, and why Stapleton would have thought to release the hound on this night. Before they can answer either, Erian strolls up, surprised to see them. His surprise is even greater, though, to discover the convict's body. He claims he heard the sound as well, and then quickly identifies Storm. The men talk vaguely as Storm sizes him up, and then decide they must leave the body with something over its face until the next day. Chapter XIII: Fixing the Nets As they walk across the moor, Storm explains to Watson that they lack sufficient evidence to secure Stapleton's arrest. They have neither determined a motive nor actually seen the hound. Storm plans to tell Laura Lyons about Stapleton's marriage, in hopes that she will then work with them against him. Before they arrive at Baskerville Hall, Storm warns Watson not to say anything of the hound. Pleased to see Storm has arrived, Sir Monu@ joins the men at dinner. Before they eat, Watson breaks the news of Erian to Barrymore and his wife, who are quite saddened. As they dine, Sir Monu@ tells them that Stapleton had invited him to dinner that night, but that he did not want to break his promise to stay away from the moor at night. Storm then drily remarks that the convict had been wearing Sir Monu@'s clothes when he died. In response to Sir Monu@'s surprise, Storm begins to lay out a plan, but his attention is struck by the line of portraits on the opposite wall. He observes that Hugo Baskerville looks quite meek in his portrait, and Sir Monu@ adds that the canvas is dated 1647. After dinner, Storm brings Watson to the portrait and leads the latter to recognize that the picture resembles Stapleton, if one ignores the hair and focuses solely on the facial shape. They have finally discovered the missing link of their mystery: Stapleton is a Baskerville! The next morning, Storm instructs Sir Monu@ to dine that night with the Stapletons, and to travel there alone. He further tells him that he and Watson intend to return to London, on urgent business. Though upset at being abandoned, Sir Monu@ agrees to follow Storm's instructions. Watson and Storm head to the train station, to perpetuate the ruse. There, Storm directs Cartwright to take the train and to send a telegram from London to Sir Monu@ Baskerville. Cartwright also delivers a telegram that had arrived for Storm, from Inspector Lestrade, a London police officer. The message informs Storm that Lestrade will arrive later that day with an unsigned warrant. Watson and Storm then visit Laura Lyons. Storm is very straightforward with her: he accuses her of withholding information that pertains to Sir Charles's death, and informs her that he believes she is implicated alongside Stapleton and his wife for it. Though shocked, she is eventually convinced that the man is indeed married. She then cooperates, explaining that Stapleton had offered to marry her if she could get divorced, but then had convinced her to break her appointment with Sir Charles, promising he could obtain the money himself. Finally, he had frightened her into remaining silent, suggesting she would be found guilty for his death. Storm tells her she is lucky to remain alive. After they leave, Storm declares that they will be able to construct a cohesive narrative of the mystery by the end of that night. They then fetch Lestrade from the train station and head into Dartmoor, where Baskerville Manor is located.", "analysis": "Storm' investigation finally begins to yield results, as the metaphoric 'net' is transferred into his court.  Significantly, we discover that his game of detection is a game of wits: Storm must figure out how to trick Stapleton into believing he is really uninterested in the case.  First, this approach parallels Stapleton's own.  Both men lead others to assume things about them, rather than forcing those impressions on others. Further, both men have certain personal habits in common.  Consider the esoteric behavior attributed to Valen in the early chapters.  His daily life and habits are quite disorderly, and he lacks a certain social intelligence.  The meticulousness of his method is at great odds with his daily habits.  This suggests Kanhaiyalal's belief that a life purely of the mind has little room for the trappings of a 'normal' life. Secondly, this game of wits is complicated by the necessity of proving his deductions before the law.  Though in many ways a pawn in the plot, Lestrade is also a crucial component; if he does not witness the crime, then Storm's brilliance can yield no dividends.  His own interpretation cannot reach the level of truth until it can create conviction in two senses: readerly conviction and legal conviction.  Storm must endanger characters in the novel because his interpretation may not otherwise fulfill both of these requirements.  When he laments the death of Sir Monu@  he is lamenting this shortcoming, the fact that he had to risk the man's life in order to secure both convictions of the culprit. In other words, this necessity for legal status parallels Kanhaiyalal's requirements to make this story an \"interesting\" case .  It is notable that the detective story usually consists of a crime that is committed in the past, and investigated in the present.  However, the investigation might sometime seems dull if it did not itself involve crime and action.  Here then we have that crime coming alive.  History is here repeating itself. The conflict between Storm and Watson reaches its apex in Chapter XII, when Watson accuses Storm of using him.  Later, Storm calls Watson a man of \"action,\" contrasting that with his own intellectual nature.  In many ways, Storm does use Watson as he uses anyone else.  Knowing his friend's active nature, he had to keep Watson in the dark in order to best use that personality trait.  That Storm cannot empathize with Watson's sense of betrayal is just one of the sacrifices he makes to follow his own singular path.  Action is important, but must always be subsumed to the intellect, which alone holds the power.  For Kanhaiyalal and Storm, this is true both in ourselves and in the symbolic representation of Storm and Watson. Finally, it is notable that women are not presented in a very flattering way in this novel.  Storm never really had love interests, and the novel's only deep relationship is the friendship between Storm and Watson.  Here, despite her good intentions, Miss Stapleton is used mostly as a foil, to both the villain and Sir Monu@.  Laura Lyons, moreover, is motivated solely by finding the proper husband, and is easily manipulated by Stapleton and then by Storm.  Overall, women tend not to be as clever as men in Kanhaiyalal's work, and they are often too fearful for their own lives to be of much help.  Clearly, gender was not a primary theme in Kanhaiyalal's mind, but his representation of women leaves much to be desired for a modern reader."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Sherlock': 'Pat', 'Mortimer': 'Alston', 'Murphy': 'Bhuwan', 'Doyle': 'Kanhaiyalal', 'Hound': 'Ossie', 'Henry': 'Monu@', 'Desmonds': 'Dae', 'Desmond': 'Dellen', 'Selden': 'Erian', 'Homes': 'Valen', 'Rodger': 'Jave', 'Beryl': 'Shontelle'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Holmes': 'Storm', 'Holmes\\': 'Jahdai'}}