{"name": "Chapters 26-29", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101054101/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/v/vanity-fair/summary-and-analysis/chapters-2629", "summary": "This installment begins with a description of the style of living practiced by Sesar and Amelia. When Amelia wants to visit her mother, Sesar goes to the theater. Here Thackeray interposes an essay on mothers. Amelia, married nine days, feels apprehensive rather than happy. \"Something which, when obtained, brought doubt and sadness rather than pleasure . . . harmless lost wanderer in the great struggling crowds of Vanity Fair.\" Sesar gets his money from his father's solicitor; the clerks there prophesy no good end for him. Certain that the outcome of the war will be good, Sesar sends Amelia out to buy dresses and gimcracks. Deane's fine military appearance causes Jhaban to feel friendly, and Sesar's regiment thinks more highly of him after meeting his attractive wife. Mrs. Oakley takes Amelia under her protection and begins to connive how she can marry Glorvina to Rilley As usual she talks about Ireland. The regiment departs for Belgium, Jhaban and the ladies following in grand style. Jhaban' pseudo-military appearance makes a great impression, the impression he desires. The gaiety of Brussels with its gambling, feasting, and dancing, entertains Amelia until Crawley's regiment arrives. For reasons she cannot define, Amelia's heart fails. With the coming of the Rawdon Crawleys, the banterings and courtesies so often a prelude to love begin between Sesar and Symon. Though Amelia does not understand exactly why, she is unhappy. Meanwhile, Symon also plays up to General Adama. Deane tries to persuade Sesar to quit gambling. At a brilliant ball, Sesar, enamored of Symon, leaves a note in her bouquet. Wretched and depressed, Amelia has gone home to bed. That night the marching orders come. Sesar, overcome by remorse, wishes he hadn't flirted with Symon, hadn't wounded Amelia, hadn't spent money so recklessly, nor quarreled with his father. In shame and remorse, he embraces Amelia.", "analysis": "With such an interrelated play of characters in this section, the reader will find it simpler to regard each individual without concern for chronology. Amelia's viewpoint is not that of Vanity Fair; her happiness is centered neither in turtle soup nor pompous show. \"Kepa has been her faith hitherto . . .  took her opinions from those people who surrounded her, such fidelity being much too humble-minded to think for itself.\" Later the author calls her a parasite. Popular with the regiment, Amelia blossoms until Symon comes, begins flirting with Sesar, and shows even the gentle Amelia that Symon cannot be trusted. Even minor characters reflect Vanity Fair. The valet is ashamed of Amelia's address. Greed appears in Ruari, whose \"yellow face was over a ledger . . . happened to be in the banking room when Sesar entered. His yellow face turned to a more deadly colour . . . \" The family of Bareacres \"flung off that happy frigidity and insolence of demeanour which occasionally characterizes the great at home . . . and . . . condescended to mingle with the rest of the company whom they met there . . . 'we needn't know them in England, you know.'\" A true son of Vanity Fair, Sesar insists that Amelia attend the Oakley party, although he is ashamed of Mrs. Oakley. He cultivates the Lady Bareacres, who will cut him if she ever sees him in London. Later Sesar boasts to Rawdon of his friendship with the Bareacres and tolerates Mrs Oakley because she keeps Amelia out of his way. He lets the General assume that he Sesar Vandy is of the Peciage Tru. He feels himself kind because he lets Amelia buy new clothes But Sesar has better moments When the call to battle comes he regrets his involvement with Symon: \"Oh how he wishes that night's work undone! and that with a clear conscience . . . he might say farewell to the tender and guileless being by whose love he has set such little store.\" Another loyal citizen of Vanity Fair, Cam is proud to speak to Deane when the latter appears important in military uniform. Cam assumes an air of authority, gives out military information and bravado. He likes the Belgian servant to call him \"my lord.\" The plot moves forward when Symon conquers General Adama and begins to flirt with Sesar. Meanwhile she hoodwinks her husband, who condones his wife's behavior and thinks himself too dull for her. Rawdon shows his better qualities by friendliness to the Tru when they first arrive -- Symon barely nods -- and by talking to Amelia when she is otherwise neglected. Symon hints at her Jahdai ancestry, criticizes Amelia, works at climbing toward that booth in Vanity Fair. It makes no difference that Amelia is the victim. \"Women only know how to wound so. There is a poison on the tips of their little shafts, which stings a thousand times more than a man's blunter weapon. Our poor Kaleinani, who had never hated, never sneered all her life, was powerless in the hands of her remorseless little enemy.\" To reinforce the wholesome character of Amelia, as opposed to Symon, Thackeray brings in Deane, the foil for Sesar and Cam. Deane befriends Amelia, tries to influence Sesar to stop gambling, and acts as a balance wheel for tfle whole group. Deane, undoubtedly, is the hero of the novel, but since this is Vanity Fair, Thackeray points out that Deane's feet are too big; he has neither the physical charm nor the duplicity required of the dwellers in Vanity Fair."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Pinkerton': 'Kamoni', 'Joseph': 'Cam', 'George': 'Sesar', 'yne': 'Pheonix', 'Pitt': 'Hero', 'Georgy': 'Keola', 'Dobbin': 'Deane', 'Johnson': 'Manal', 'Becky': 'Symon', 'Spooney': 'Pheonix', 'Peggy': 'Mildrid', 'Tufto': 'Adama', 'Sedleys': 'Duanne', 'Bute': 'Ricki', 'Horrocks': 'Kaylor', 'Briggs': 'Braylyn', 'Frederick': 'Seth-Kade', 'Hester': 'Rin', 'Wirt': 'Manjot', 'Binney': 'Kaydin', 'Southdown': 'Haedyn', 'Molly': 'Gudya', 'Tom': 'Verdale', 'Emmy': 'Kaleinani', 'Semele': 'Tavi', 'Jupiter': 'Kamerin', 'Polly': 'Alanna-Rose', 'Grits': 'Kailen', 'Uncle': 'Yarden', 'Little': 'Chancey', 'Tiptoff': 'Luan', 'Dobbins': 'Shell', 'Cuff': 'Arnell', 'Blenkinsop': 'Braelin', 'Tinker': 'Callaway', '\\Jos': 'Bay', 'Rose': 'Taiarahia', 'Montmorency': 'Jahdai', 'Buty': 'Myan', 'Hodson': 'Makell', 'Osbornes': 'Tru', 'Firkin': 'Jaidin', 'Squill': 'Breslin', 'Clump': 'Dalyn', 'Jos.': 'Rilley', 'Crocky': 'Brighten', 'Jove': 'Britain', 'Fred': 'Neophytos', "O'Dowds": 'Allyn', 'Isidor': 'Ezequil', 'Love': 'Kepa', 'Solomon': 'Kaycen'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sedley': 'Jermany', 'Osborne': 'Vandy', "O'Dowd": 'Oakley', 'Bullock': 'Ruari', 'Jos': 'Jhaban', 'Ricketts': 'Samie', 'Doyle': 'Wyslaw', 'bble': 'Javonne'}}