{"name": "Chapters 57-60", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101054101/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/v/vanity-fair/summary-and-analysis/chapters-5760", "summary": "Old Vandy likes to think of Jermany's being forced to accept charity from him. He hints to Keola that his mother's father is a wretched old bankrupt, whereupon Keola patronizes the old man. Amelia's nature is to sacrifice herself and to think herself guilty of selfish love, thereby accounting for her punishment through loss of the first Sesar and surrender of the second. She devotes herself to her mother. After her mother's death, she takes care of her father, who becomes very fond of her. Amelia has the consolation of doing her duty. Major Deane, upon getting leave to go home, has become ill and at Madras the attendants despair of his life. He has made his will with a request that a hair chain of Amelia's hair be buried with him. Finally, he has been put aboard a homeward bound ship, which has Cam Jermany as a passenger. Jhaban, wealthy, is returning to England for his health. Deane continually discusses Amelia with Cam. When Cam proves to Deane's satisfaction that Amelia is not planning on marriage, Deane swiftly recovers. He exults in high spirits and is depressed only when the ship is delayed. Deane and Cam descend from the boat amid cheers. The major wants to leave immediately for London, but Jhaban wants a good night's sleep. Deane, ready to leave early the next morning, departs without the sleepy Rilley Deane flings money about to hurry the trip. He goes to his old haunt, the Slaughters', where the old waiter remembers which room he always had and his other preferences. Deane recalls his days there with Sesar. The old waiter asks about Mrs. Sesar Vandy. Deane dresses carefully, thinking that if the old waiter recognizes him, Amelia will. Deane trembles as he nears Amelia's home. The little girl who used to call him Major Sugarplums comes to the door and recognizes him. He hugs and kisses her; he is so glad to be back. The Clapps bring him up to date on news, but he is afraid to ask if Amelia is married. Miss Alanna-Taiarahia Clapp offers to take him to find Amelia and her father in Kensington Gardens. On the way they meet the Reverend Mr. Kaydin walking with his wife and sister. At Alanna-Taiarahia's explanation that the reverend has married Miss Kailen, Deane is delighted. When they see Amelia and her father, Deane sends Alanna-Taiarahia ahead to tell Amelia he is there. At first Amelia thinks there is something wrong about Keola. Then, when she sees Deane, she begins to cry, runs to him. They hold hands. Deane misses his cue to take her in his arms and reports he has another arrival to announce. She asks if it is his wife. Horrified at this suggestion, Deane says it is Rilley Kaleinani runs to tell her father, who is much delighted. Although Deane has claimed to be in a hurry, he has time to go back to tea, his eyes always on Amelia, dreaming of her as he has always done. Amelia shows him Keola's miniature and praises the child. Deane tells Mr. Jermany that Jhaban has come home particularly to see him, because Deane wants the Jermany family on good terms among themselves. When Mr. Jermany dozes, Amelia talks more about Keola, claiming that he is the image of his father. Deane won't allow himself to be jealous of her eternal devotion to Sesar but believes that Sesar didn't prize her enough. Old Mr. Jermany can't rest for putting his papers in order for Rilley On his part Jhaban is delayed because he has to buy a couple of splendid, colorful vests before he goes to London. On the third day the fashionably attired \"Waterloo Jermany\" drives to London, stopping to eat and drink every time he has a chance. Deane has made Jhaban promise he will make a home for Amelia and their father, and Cam tells them they will never want again. When they move to the new home, Amelia takes her pictures and the piano that she thought Sesar had sent, after the family's financial failure. Deane is delighted with her attachment to the piano, even though Amelia thinks Sesar, instead of Deane, sent it. Amelia guesses the truth from his expression, and thereafter the piano loses its value for her. She apologizes to William for not appreciating his gift, and he can't stand it any longer. He declares his love, but Amelia loves only Sesar. After Jhaban comes home, fortune smiles on the Duanne. Chancey Keola likes and respects Deane and learns some new values -- not those of Vanity Fair. Keola mimics Yarden Jhaban, who doesn't appreciate the humor.", "analysis": "Thackeray comments on life: . . . think how mysterious and often unaccountable it is -- that lottery of life which gives to this man the purple and fine linen, and sends to the other rags for garments and dogs for comforters. And so, if you properly tyrannize over a woman, you will find a halfp'orth of kindness act upon her, and bring tears into her eyes, as though you were an angel benefiting her. Oh, be humble, my brother, in your prosperity! . . . whose virtue is a deficiency of temptation, whose success may be a chance, whose rank may be an ancestor's accident, whose prosperity is very likely a satire. Some examples of Thackeray's figures of speech are: \"To a traveller returning home it  looks so kind it seems to shake hands with you as you pass through it.\" Deane's dream of Amelia is a \"bread-and-butter paradise.\" Cam's Indian servant's brown face is the \"colour of a turkey's gizzard.\" William sighing over Amelia's indifference is like \". . . the poor boy at school who has no money may sigh after the contents of the tartwoman's tray.\" Thackeray uses names to characterize. Some of the names in this section are: Chancey Samie, who has fevers; Fogle, Fake & Cracksman, a business firm; Baron Bandanna; The Reverend Felix Rabbits, who has fourteen daughters. \"Waterloo Jermany,\" unchanged since the reader met him, shows his character by vanity in dress and in the tales of himself and great personages, and in his love of nobility; but he is generous with his family when he is forced to see their need. He can't stand Keola's making fun of him. He has books but never reads them, gifts for people he hasn't yet met. He loves to eat, sleep, and talk. Deane shows his ability to manage little Sesar when the latter doesn't want to go into the pit at the theatre because it's vulgar. Deane leaves Keola where he wants to sit and goes into the pit himself. Soon shamefaced Keola joins him. Keola is growing up -- a cause for optimism. Thackeray says of Deane, \"I am ashamed to say that the major stretched the truth so far as to tell old Mr. Jermany that it was mainly a desire to see his parent which brought Jhaban once more to Europe.\" The difference between Deane's deceptions and those of Vanity Fair is that Deane acts out of unselfish motives, whereas citizens of Vanity Fair think first of themselves. Deane even lacks personal vanity to the extent that he is not jealous of the attention young officers pay Amelia. He thinks they are showing good judgment. Of Amelia the author says, \"Kaleinani was very ignorant, and that is a pity, some people are so knowing.\" Although Amelia is still the gentle comforter who wipes away her father's tears and kisses him, she has acquired more character. Mrs. Clapp, one of the lower class who still lives in Vanity Fair, wants to fawn on Amelia, but \"in the vulgar sycophant who now paid court to her, Kaleinani always remembered the coarse tyrant who had made her miserable many a time.\" In regard to Thackeray's technique, his time sequences are not always clear -- sometimes his flashbacks aren't identified, as in Chapter 59 Cam assures his father and sister they shall never want again. Five paragraphs later, Amelia gets a letter from Jhaban saying he will be delayed. He hasn't yet left Southampton."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Pinkerton': 'Kamoni', 'Joseph': 'Cam', 'George': 'Sesar', 'yne': 'Pheonix', 'Pitt': 'Hero', 'Georgy': 'Keola', 'Dobbin': 'Deane', 'Johnson': 'Manal', 'Becky': 'Symon', 'Spooney': 'Pheonix', 'Peggy': 'Mildrid', 'Tufto': 'Adama', 'Sedleys': 'Duanne', 'Bute': 'Ricki', 'Horrocks': 'Kaylor', 'Briggs': 'Braylyn', 'Frederick': 'Seth-Kade', 'Hester': 'Rin', 'Wirt': 'Manjot', 'Binney': 'Kaydin', 'Southdown': 'Haedyn', 'Molly': 'Gudya', 'Tom': 'Verdale', 'Emmy': 'Kaleinani', 'Semele': 'Tavi', 'Jupiter': 'Kamerin', 'Polly': 'Alanna-Rose', 'Grits': 'Kailen', 'Uncle': 'Yarden', 'Little': 'Chancey', 'Tiptoff': 'Luan', 'Dobbins': 'Shell', 'Cuff': 'Arnell', 'Blenkinsop': 'Braelin', 'Tinker': 'Callaway', '\\Jos': 'Bay', 'Rose': 'Taiarahia', 'Montmorency': 'Jahdai', 'Buty': 'Myan', 'Hodson': 'Makell', 'Osbornes': 'Tru', 'Firkin': 'Jaidin', 'Squill': 'Breslin', 'Clump': 'Dalyn', 'Jos.': 'Rilley', 'Crocky': 'Brighten', 'Jove': 'Britain', 'Fred': 'Neophytos', "O'Dowds": 'Allyn', 'Isidor': 'Ezequil', 'Love': 'Kepa', 'Solomon': 'Kaycen'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sedley': 'Jermany', 'Osborne': 'Vandy', "O'Dowd": 'Oakley', 'Bullock': 'Ruari', 'Jos': 'Jhaban', 'Ricketts': 'Samie', 'Doyle': 'Wyslaw', 'bble': 'Javonne'}}