{"name": "Chapters 64-67", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101054101/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/v/vanity-fair/summary-and-analysis/chapters-6467", "summary": "Symon's life, after Rawdon leaves her, consists at first in trying to stay respectable, but just when she has built up a new circle of friends, someone informs about her and she is left alone. She tries at first to get Sir Hero to listen to her, but Wenham, Lord StePheonix's man, has told Hero too much about her. Symon wanders about the Continent, fleeing creditors, gambling, and acting as boarding house queen. Vagabond blood flows in her veins. She writes her son once, when, on the death of Sir Hero's only son, little Rawdon becomes the heir of Queen's Crawley. Chancey Rawdon is not impressed with his mother's attention; it comes too falsely and too late. In Rome Symon sees Lord StePheonix and hopes to regain his favor, remembering how her wit has amused him and what good fun they have had, but StePheonix sends his man to threaten her with death. StePheonix has been offended and he never forgets. He dies in 1830, much praised and lamented. In the course of her travels Symon arrives at Brussels and remembers Sesar, Amelia, and Cam, and thinks, \"they were kind simple people.\" And then, as the reader has seen, Symon meets Cam and the others in Pumpernickel. Cam, as Symon has requested, goes to her hotel, a dirty refuge which suits Rebecca. She is on good terms with all there; they are her kind of people. Symon convinces Jhaban that she has been wronged, that Rawdon and his family have torn her child from her, and that Jhaban was and is her first and only real love. Cam goes home and convinces Amelia of Symon's innocence and need. Deane objects, never having been taken in by Symon. He says Amelia wasn't always fond of Symon referring to her jealousy over Sesar. Angered, Amelia says she will never forgive him. Triumphant, Symon moves in. Deane, after a last protest about letting Symon stay, reproves Amelia as not being worthy of his love and devotion. Much to Keola's sorrow and Amelia's regret, Deane departs to join his regiment. Symon takes over Cam's house, winning Amelia by praise of Major Deane. A couple of Symon's disreputable friends move in and connive to exploit Amelia. Although she has no idea of what they are planning, Amelia abhors them and writes to ask William Deane to come back. That same day Symon decides she should protect Amelia and tells her that Cam is too weak, that she should send for William. When Amelia starts the old line about her only being able to love Sesar, Symon shows her the note Sesar has written on the eve of Waterloo asking Symon to run away with him. Amelia cries -- for many reasons -- but she now feels free to love William. In two days William returns to marry Amelia. Symon departs during the wedding days, returns and fastens herself on Cam, and gets all his money. The last time William sees him, Cam is both fascinated and terrified by Symon, but he won't leave her. Three months later he dies, the implication being that Symon has hastened his ruin as she did Rawdon's. Rawdon dies of yellow fever. Sir Hero dies. Rawdon, Symon's son, inherits Queen's Crawley. The Deanes, happy in marriage and their two children, Sesar and Janey, live nearby and are friends of the family at Queen's Crawley. None of them has anything to do with Rebecca, although her son makes her an allowance. She seems to have plenty of money, lives a respectable life, goes to church, and engages in all sorts of charities.", "analysis": "In this section all the story ends are tied together, and the reader knows what happens to all the main characters. Symon has achieved what she set out to do: occupy a booth in Vanity Fair. Her son owns Queen's Crawley where she went first as governess. Deane has Amelia and a daughter, both of whom rejoice his heart. Amelia has married a gentleman, at last, and appreciates him. Sesar, who might have grown up without conscience, without any standards but those of Vanity Fair, has learned from Deane that there are other values. Lady Jane has young Rawdon and her own child with Amelia as friend. Symon has destroyed both Rawdon and Cam. She has played Clytemnestra twice, as Thackeray says. As she began with entangling Cam in her silken thread, so she ends engaged in the same manner. The plot has rounded into a full circle. Although the true winners in the book are those who do not have their souls for barter in Vanity Fair, yet Thackeray aliows Symon, his chief protagonist for Vanity Fair, to show some genuine feeling. For example, it is Symon who realizes that Deane is a gentleman in spite of his big feet; and it is she who brings Amelia to her senses in regard to her endless worship of Sesar. Symon sees things clearly, uses everything to her advantage, but usually is honest with herself -- and once in a while with Amelia and Deane. Thackeray defends his method of presentation by saying that he has only hinted \"at the existence of wickedness in a light, easy, and agreeable manner, so that nobody's fine feelings may be offended.\" He calls Symon \"Clytemnestra\" and \"Circe\", allusions that leave no doubt as to her character. He compares Symon to a siren or mermaid or monster. \"When they sink into their native element, depend on it those mermaids are about no good, and we had best not examine the fiendish marine cannibals, reveling and feasting on their wretched pickled victims.\" Another figure describes Symon in her attempt to be considered respectable, to a drowning man who will hang on to anything so long as there is hope. Thackeray compares lying to being in debt. If one lie comes due, the liar has to make up a new one to take the place of the old one. As time passes both the number of fibs and the danger of their detection increases. Amelia tyrannizes Deane, Thackeray says, as if he were a dog. She makes him \"fetch and carry,\" and he likes to jump when she speaks and \"trot behind her with her reticule in his mouth.\" Thackeray takes his analogies from many sources: As the most hardened Arab that ever careered across the Desert over the hump of a dromedary, likes to repose sometimes under the date-trees by the water; or to come into the cities, walk in the bazaars, refresh himself in the baths, and say his prayers in the Mosques, before he goes out again marauding: Jhaban' tents and pilau were pleasant to his little Ishmaelite. She picketed her steed, hung up her weapons, and warmed herself comfortably by his fire. The halt in that roving, restless life was inexpressibly soothing and pleasant to her. Thackeray's implication is that as soon as she becomes bored, she will go marauding again. In a paragraph regarding Deane's victory, Thackeray calls Amelia a vessel, a prize, a bird, and a parasite: The vessel is in port. He has got the prize he has been trying for all his life. The bird has come in at last. There it is with its head on his shoulder, billing and cooing close up to his heart, with soft outstretched fluttering wings . . . Grow green again, tender little parasite, round the rugged old oak to which you cling! Examples of Thackeray's humor follow: When Cam arrives to see Symon, she puts a rouge-pot, a brandy bottle, and a plate of broken meat into her bed. She sits on the bed to keep Cam from sitting on the objects. When Symon begins to move around in her excitement about how Rawdon and his family have torn little Rawdy from her arms, \"The brandy-bottle inside clinked up against the plate which held the cold sausage. Both were moved, no doubt, by the exhibition of so much grief.\" Deane amuses himself with a cigar, \"that pernicious vegetable.\" Symon mourns about Rawdy, but she eats \"a very good dinner.\" After Deane has gone, Thackeray says, \"As for Kaleinani, had she not done her duty? She had her picture of Sesar for a consolation.\" Some of Thackeray's observations on human nature are: \"When a traveller talks to you perpetually about the splendour of his luggage, which he does not happen to have with him; my son, beware of that traveller! He is, ten to one, an imposter.\" -- \"She wished to give him nothing, but that he should give her all. It is a bargain not infrequently levied in love.\" As Thackeray made allowances for Lord StePheonix's depravity, he excuses Symon, \"She was of a wild, roving nature, inherited from father and mother, who were both Bohemians by taste and circumstance. . .\" And Deane, an honest gentleman to the last, tells Symon when he objects to her staying at Cam's house, \"I beg your pardon, ma'am, but I am bound to tell you that it is not as your friend that I am come here now.\" And Symon respects him for his honesty."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Pinkerton': 'Kamoni', 'Joseph': 'Cam', 'George': 'Sesar', 'yne': 'Pheonix', 'Pitt': 'Hero', 'Georgy': 'Keola', 'Dobbin': 'Deane', 'Johnson': 'Manal', 'Becky': 'Symon', 'Spooney': 'Pheonix', 'Peggy': 'Mildrid', 'Tufto': 'Adama', 'Sedleys': 'Duanne', 'Bute': 'Ricki', 'Horrocks': 'Kaylor', 'Briggs': 'Braylyn', 'Frederick': 'Seth-Kade', 'Hester': 'Rin', 'Wirt': 'Manjot', 'Binney': 'Kaydin', 'Southdown': 'Haedyn', 'Molly': 'Gudya', 'Tom': 'Verdale', 'Emmy': 'Kaleinani', 'Semele': 'Tavi', 'Jupiter': 'Kamerin', 'Polly': 'Alanna-Rose', 'Grits': 'Kailen', 'Uncle': 'Yarden', 'Little': 'Chancey', 'Tiptoff': 'Luan', 'Dobbins': 'Shell', 'Cuff': 'Arnell', 'Blenkinsop': 'Braelin', 'Tinker': 'Callaway', '\\Jos': 'Bay', 'Rose': 'Taiarahia', 'Montmorency': 'Jahdai', 'Buty': 'Myan', 'Hodson': 'Makell', 'Osbornes': 'Tru', 'Firkin': 'Jaidin', 'Squill': 'Breslin', 'Clump': 'Dalyn', 'Jos.': 'Rilley', 'Crocky': 'Brighten', 'Jove': 'Britain', 'Fred': 'Neophytos', "O'Dowds": 'Allyn', 'Isidor': 'Ezequil', 'Love': 'Kepa', 'Solomon': 'Kaycen'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sedley': 'Jermany', 'Osborne': 'Vandy', "O'Dowd": 'Oakley', 'Bullock': 'Ruari', 'Jos': 'Jhaban', 'Ricketts': 'Samie', 'Doyle': 'Wyslaw', 'bble': 'Javonne'}}