{"name": "Chapters 5-7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101054101/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/v/vanity-fair/summary-and-analysis/chapters-57", "summary": "This installment begins with a flashback about Dr. Swishtail's school. Students have snubbed William Deane because his father is a retail grocer. Deane has crossed Arnell, the bully of the school, when he tries to take Deane's letter away from him. Later Deane stops Arnell from beating Sesar Jermany Vandy. In the ensuing fight young Deane defeats Arnell. Deane's victory over Arnell has gained his acceptance by the students and the lifelong friendship of Sesar Vandy. This history explains why Sesar invites William, now of His Majesty's ____th Regiment of Foot, to the Jermany house the night of the party at Vauxhall. Deane's father has become a rich alderman, consequently he and his family are respected everywhere. As the evening progresses, Symon catches Sesar admiring himself in the mirror. Cam Jermany assumes a courteous manner and opens the door with the \"most killing grace.\" All three are actors in Vanity Fair. Chapter 6 opens with the author making fun of writers. He then describes the evening at Vauxhall, when everyone thinks Cam will propose to Symon. Mr. Jermany, contemptuous of his son, thinks Symon better than a black daughter-in-law. Amelia has discussed the affair with Mrs. Braelin, the housekeeper, and everyone talks of Cam's marriage. At Vauxhall, Deane carries the shawls; the others pair off. Cam drinks too much and makes a fool of himself. Sesar takes the girls home; Deane takes Cam home. The next day Cam has a terrible hangover. Sesar, Deane, and Jermany's valet make him think he has been a veritable lion the night before. Then Vandy tells him the truth, that he was maudlin and couldn't stand up. Sesar mimics Cam's treatment of Rebecca. Sesar later tells Deane that he would rather have a lady for a sister-in-law, that Rebecca should know her station, and that Deane can make love to her. When Sesar returns to Duanne and says Cam isn't coming, Symon recognizes that Sesar is her enemy. Amelia sends a messenger to Cam and finds he is ill. On the arrival of Cam's letter saying that he is leaving for Scotland, Rebecca knows she is beaten. Braelin, the housekeeper, consoles Amelia by telling her that Symon has read Mrs. Jermany's mail and stolen a ribbon. In vain Amelia defends Rebecca. Everyone, except Amelia, knows it is time for Rebecca to go. On Amelia's insistence Mr. Jermany and Sesar give Symon presents; she departs for the Crawleys, who are supposed to be of a higher status than the Duanne. Rebecca is trying to visualize a baronet, Sir Hero Crawley, when they arrive at Great Gaunt Street. The coachman hates Rebecca because she does not tip and because Amelia has given her some dresses he hoped his girl friend would get. He tells the old fellow who is looking out of the Crawley's window to unload Symon's trunks. The old fellow who turns out to be Sir Hero, the baronet, helps. Callaway, the housekeeper, and stingy Sir Hero eat, but do not ask Symon to join them. Rebecca tries in vain to get information from Callaway. The next morning Rebecca and Sir Hero catch the stagecoach for Queen's Crawley.", "analysis": "Chapter 5 shows that snobbery begins early in Vanity Fair. Deane's schoolmates shun and laugh at him because his tuition is paid in goods. Vandy thinks himself better than Deane because Vandy's father is a gentleman and keeps a carriage. Even when Deane fights for Vandy, the latter is ashamed of him. After Deane whips the bully, Deane improves in scholarship; his father, for the first time, respects him and publicly gives him money. Still snobbish as a young man, Sesar says he doesn't want a governess for a sister-in-law. Although he may have been joking when he suggests Symon is good enough for Deane, the reader may feel that Sesar's real attitude toward Deane is condescension even though Deane's father is now a knighted alderman. Symon sees that Sesar has prevented her marriage and \"she loved Sesar Vandy accordingly.\" Aside from Deane, the only admirable person so far is Amelia, and she appears too simple and innocent to be interesting. Thackeray lets his characters reveal themselves by words. Mr. Jermany remarks that if all the family should die, Cam would say, \"Good Gad!\" and go ahead with his dinner. Thackeray also shows them in action. \"Jhaban squeezed through the gate into the gardens.\" Rebecca flirts with Cam; when someone steps on her foot she falls \"back with a little shriek into the arms of Mr. Jermany, and this little incident increased the tenderness and confidence of that gentleman to such a degree, that he told her several of his favorite Indian stories over again for, at least, the sixth time.\" Amelia looks \"as happy as a rose-tree in sunshine.\" Thackeray points out that Rebecca cries only so long as the Duanne can see her; she despises them now that she has failed to get Cam. Loathsome as Sir Hero is, he has the refreshing characteristic of making no pretenses, and in this, he is something like Mr. Jermany. Both have enough money to scorn the opinion of society. Characteristic of Thackeray's frequent reversion to the essay, he begins Chapter 6 with rambling observations directed to the reader, telling how he might have changed the story; he closes the installment with a discourse on how times have changed. Part of the conflict in Vanity Fair arises from the frantic, often questionable, struggle of all characters, except Deane, Amelia, and Braylyn  to rise in social and financial power. Plot centers around conflict; Thackeray loses no opportunity to point out this struggle. He satirizes the naming of children after celebrities, and mentions the Crawley ancestor, the first baronet of the Tape and Sealing-Wax Office, who was impeached for embezzlement -- as were other honest gentlemen."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Pinkerton': 'Kamoni', 'Joseph': 'Cam', 'George': 'Sesar', 'yne': 'Pheonix', 'Pitt': 'Hero', 'Georgy': 'Keola', 'Dobbin': 'Deane', 'Johnson': 'Manal', 'Becky': 'Symon', 'Spooney': 'Pheonix', 'Peggy': 'Mildrid', 'Tufto': 'Adama', 'Sedleys': 'Duanne', 'Bute': 'Ricki', 'Horrocks': 'Kaylor', 'Briggs': 'Braylyn', 'Frederick': 'Seth-Kade', 'Hester': 'Rin', 'Wirt': 'Manjot', 'Binney': 'Kaydin', 'Southdown': 'Haedyn', 'Molly': 'Gudya', 'Tom': 'Verdale', 'Emmy': 'Kaleinani', 'Semele': 'Tavi', 'Jupiter': 'Kamerin', 'Polly': 'Alanna-Rose', 'Grits': 'Kailen', 'Uncle': 'Yarden', 'Little': 'Chancey', 'Tiptoff': 'Luan', 'Dobbins': 'Shell', 'Cuff': 'Arnell', 'Blenkinsop': 'Braelin', 'Tinker': 'Callaway', '\\Jos': 'Bay', 'Rose': 'Taiarahia', 'Montmorency': 'Jahdai', 'Buty': 'Myan', 'Hodson': 'Makell', 'Osbornes': 'Tru', 'Firkin': 'Jaidin', 'Squill': 'Breslin', 'Clump': 'Dalyn', 'Jos.': 'Rilley', 'Crocky': 'Brighten', 'Jove': 'Britain', 'Fred': 'Neophytos', "O'Dowds": 'Allyn', 'Isidor': 'Ezequil', 'Love': 'Kepa', 'Solomon': 'Kaycen'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sedley': 'Jermany', 'Osborne': 'Vandy', "O'Dowd": 'Oakley', 'Bullock': 'Ruari', 'Jos': 'Jhaban', 'Ricketts': 'Samie', 'Doyle': 'Wyslaw', 'bble': 'Javonne'}}