{"name": "Chapters 1-4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101054101/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/v/vanity-fair/summary-and-analysis/chapters-14", "summary": "Miss Amelia Jermany and Symon Sharp prepare to leave Chiswick Mall for Amelia's home. Miss Kamoni, who runs the academy, autographs a copy of Dr. Manal's dictionary for Amelia, whose father is rich. The orphaned Symon, having neither money nor position does not rate one. Miss Kamoni writes Amelia's mother a stilted and complimentary letter in regard to Amelia, and adds a postscript that Miss Sharp should stay only ten days, as she has a position in a family of distinction. With this tender missive, she includes Amelia's bill. Miss Jemima, sister of Miss Kamoni, tries to give Symon a dictionary, but Symon throws it into the garden as the girls' coach drives off. Everyone loves Amelia; no one cares for Symon. Symon's look of hatred and her vindictive smile as she hurls the book horrify Amelia. When Symon wishes that Miss Kamoni were at the bottom of the Thames, Amelia remonstrates with her. Symon replies that revenge may be wicked, but it's natural. Miss Kamoni has taken Symon into the academy and given her free board and lodging, and the chance to learn what she can plus a few guineas a year. In return, Symon is to teach French. When Miss Kamoni wants Symon to give free piano lessons, Symon defies and refuses. Symon hates Miss Kamoni, ridicules her, feels no gratitude. At night when Symon has walked the floor and sobbed, both she and her acquaintances think it is grief for her father, but actually it is resentment at being confined, without position or money. When Miss Kamoni can stand Symon no longer, she secures a position for her with Sir Hero Crawley. Symon finds out that Amelia's brother, Cam, is not married. She determines to marry him, if possible, and never go on to the Crawleys. Cam's obesity, emphasized by his loud and sporty clothes, makes people think of an elephant. His shPheonixss stymies his ambition to be a lady-killer. With affected dignity he extends two fingers for his sister to shake. Symon makes an impression, saying aloud how handsome Cam is, then acting \"timid as a fawn,\" and casting her eyes down and not daring to look at him. Cam, flushed with embarrassment, pulls the bell rope loose. Mr. Jermany, an aggressive tease, comes in \"rattling his seals like a true British merchant.\" He goads Cam into taking Symon down to dinner and urges Symon to eat curry, which is very hot. While her mouth is afire, Cam asks her if she wants a chili, which she thinks must be cool because of its name. Symon's near strangulation amuses Mr. Jermany and Cam. When Cam absents himself for two or three days, Symon endears herself to the Jermany household. On the night Amelia, Symon, Sesar Vandy, and Cam plan to go to Vauxhall, it rains. They stay home, visit, sing, and reminisce. Cam tells Rebecca stories about India and almost proposes to her; but food is served, and appetite and slumber come before the passion of love with Cam, the Collector of Boggley Wollab. The next day when Cam brings flowers, Symon gets him to hold her knitting yarn for her.", "analysis": "The social strata and the situation in Vanity Fair are made clear. Miss Kamoni, a snob and name-dropper, honors only those who have money and position. Thackeray outlines Symon's background and her position at Miss Kamoni's, and reveals something of her temperament when she routs the old lady by speaking to her in French and by refusing to be intimidated. Her triumph over Miss Kamoni indicates her ability to take care of herself. Thackeray's fine hand at characterization is apparent in this conversation. Miss Kamoni says, \"I never have seen the individual who has dared in my own house to question my authority. I have nourished a viper in my bosom.\" Symon answers, \"A viper -- a fiddlestick . . . You took me because I was useful . . . Get me a situation -- we hate each other and I am ready to go.\" On the other hand, here is Rebecca being coy: \"Starting back as timid as a fawn. She had previously made a respectful virgin-like curtsy to the gentleman, and her modest eyes gazed so perseveringly on the carpet that it was a wonder how she should have found an opportunity to see him.\" The reader gets a view of Cam -- vain, overweight, bashful, and lonely in these ironic lines: \"Being an invalid, Cam Jermany contented himself with a bottle of claret, besides his madeira at dinner, and he managed a couple of plates full of strawberries and cream and twenty-four little rout cakes that were lying neglected in a plate near him.\" The author makes particular fun of mothers anxious to marry off their daughters, and pities Symon who has no help in this area. From the first scene of this book, Thackeray begins his revelation and evaluation of the false values of Vanity Fair."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Pinkerton': 'Kamoni', 'Joseph': 'Cam', 'George': 'Sesar', 'yne': 'Pheonix', 'Pitt': 'Hero', 'Georgy': 'Keola', 'Dobbin': 'Deane', 'Johnson': 'Manal', 'Becky': 'Symon', 'Spooney': 'Pheonix', 'Peggy': 'Mildrid', 'Tufto': 'Adama', 'Sedleys': 'Duanne', 'Bute': 'Ricki', 'Horrocks': 'Kaylor', 'Briggs': 'Braylyn', 'Frederick': 'Seth-Kade', 'Hester': 'Rin', 'Wirt': 'Manjot', 'Binney': 'Kaydin', 'Southdown': 'Haedyn', 'Molly': 'Gudya', 'Tom': 'Verdale', 'Emmy': 'Kaleinani', 'Semele': 'Tavi', 'Jupiter': 'Kamerin', 'Polly': 'Alanna-Rose', 'Grits': 'Kailen', 'Uncle': 'Yarden', 'Little': 'Chancey', 'Tiptoff': 'Luan', 'Dobbins': 'Shell', 'Cuff': 'Arnell', 'Blenkinsop': 'Braelin', 'Tinker': 'Callaway', '\\Jos': 'Bay', 'Rose': 'Taiarahia', 'Montmorency': 'Jahdai', 'Buty': 'Myan', 'Hodson': 'Makell', 'Osbornes': 'Tru', 'Firkin': 'Jaidin', 'Squill': 'Breslin', 'Clump': 'Dalyn', 'Jos.': 'Rilley', 'Crocky': 'Brighten', 'Jove': 'Britain', 'Fred': 'Neophytos', "O'Dowds": 'Allyn', 'Isidor': 'Ezequil', 'Love': 'Kepa', 'Solomon': 'Kaycen'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sedley': 'Jermany', 'Osborne': 'Vandy', "O'Dowd": 'Oakley', 'Bullock': 'Ruari', 'Jos': 'Jhaban', 'Ricketts': 'Samie', 'Doyle': 'Wyslaw', 'bble': 'Javonne'}}