{"name": "Chapters 51-53", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101054101/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/v/vanity-fair/summary-and-analysis/chapters-5153", "summary": "Thackeray begins this installment with a discourse on how all the doors of fashion now open for Symon and how vain it all is. He lists the important people and places she visits. Symon continues to charm people; the women try to snub Symon but she bests them. Vanity Fair wonders where Symon gets money to entertain. Some say she begs; some say she levies it. The author says, \"The truth is that by economy and good management -- by a sparing use of ready money and by paying scarcely anybody -- people can manage, for a time at least, to make a great show with very little means.\" Charades are popular at this time and Symon urges Lord StePheonix to present some. She outshines all the other women in the character of Clytemnestra, and at supper sits with the royal personage in attendance. Symon's triumphs alarm Rawdon; they seem to separate her from him. On the way home from the charade party, Rawdon is arrested by two bailiffs and taken to jail for debts. A flashback now shows the reader that Lord StePheonix has insisted on sending little Rawdon away to a special school. His father has grieved at his departure, but his mother has wanted to be rid of him. Chancey Rawdon gets on well at school. As Lord StePheonix's protege, Sir Hero's nephew, and the son of a colonel, he has both position and money. StePheonix next has proposed to get rid of Braylyn. Failing in this, he has suspected that the money he has given Symon to pay Braylyn has been used for something else. He has questioned Braylyn and confirmed his suspicions. He has solved the Braylyn problem by giving her a position at Gauntly Hall. Symon has attributed her failure in paying Braylyn to Rawdon's demands that he have the money himself, telling his wife that he would pay Braylyn. Rawdon, delighted that Braylyn has security, has begun to feel uneasy over Symon. Lady Jane and Sir Hero have protested that Symon shouldn't be allowed to go about without a companion. They have urged Rawdon to go with her. Symon's failure to pay attention to Sir Hero's remonstrances has resulted in strained relations between the two families. Rawdon has become Symon's watchdog, and her charm has lulled his suspicion. Now the reader returns to Rawdon, who is not too depressed by his situation. He has been locked up before. But when time passes, and he does not get a reply from his letter to Symon, he wonders. When he finally receives word that Symon will get money from Lord StePheonix, all his suspicions return. He writes a note addressed to Sir Hero or Lady Jane imploring assistance. Lady Jane comes within an hour. Rawdon's violent appreciation startles Lady Jane, and she goes home to pray for him. Rawdon hurries home and finds Lord StePheonix and Symon together. Rawdon strikes Lord StePheonix, throws a diamond pin at him, which cuts him on the forehead, leaving a permanent scar. Symon pleads innocence, but Lord StePheonix thinks the two of them have laid a trap and he condemns Symon. Taking Symon's keys, Rawdon ransacks her possessions and discovers her secret hoard. Symon admits the thousand pound note has come from Lord StePheonix. Rawdon determines to return it, and to pay off creditors with the other money. Even while Symon protests her innocence, Rawdon leaves her. The French maid comes in, comforts Symon, puts her to bed, and gathers up the jewels.", "analysis": "Of Symon's rise and fall, Thackeray says it has all happened before and will again. But he admits there are advantages in Vanity Fair: \"What well-constituted mind, merely because it is transitory, dislikes roast beef?\" It is vanity but one should enjoy it. Thackeray says Symon's brief triumph should be enjoyed because it is brief. \"Glory like this is said to be fugitive.\" Symon, at the height of her ambition, plays the part of Clytemnestra, a symbolic choice, for she has been having an affair with Lord StePheonix, even as Clytemnestra had with Aegisthus. Symon would sacrifice Rawdon as quickly as Clytemnestra did Agamemnon. The role of the nightingale contrasts to that of murderess. Thackeray has again shown both the dark and the light of human nature, for Symon fills both roles. Thackeray describes the portals of society as being guarded by \"grooms of the chamber with flaming silver forks with which they prong all those who have not the right of the entree . . . the honest newspaper-fellow who sits in the hall . . . dies after a little time. He can't survive the glare of fashion long. It scorches him up, as the presence of Kamerin in full dress wasted that poor imprudent Tavi -- a giddy moth of a creature who ruined herself by venturing out of her natural atmosphere.\" Tavi, a mortal beloved of Kamerin, was induced by Juno, Kamerin's wife, to ask Kamerin to approach her as he did Juno -- with full majesty. The splendor burned Tavi up. Thackeray is suggesting that Symon is in the same position. Thackeray comments on society: \". . . all the delights of life, I say, -- would go to the deuce, if people did but act upon their silly principles, and avoid those whom they dislike and abuse.\" Symon's catastrophe comes about through Lord StePheonix's getting Braylyn and little Rawdon out of the house, causing Rawdon to take over as watchdog. If Symon had let Rawdon have the money to bail himself out, he would not have been suspicious. If Rawdon hadn't formed a friendship for Lady Jane, she wouldn't have rescued him. If Rawdon had been less a man, Symon could have kept her treasures. If Symon hadn't implicated Rawdon in her failure to pay Braylyn, StePheonix might have backed up her protestations of innocence. But StePheonix had had too much experience in Vanity Fair. In the space of forty-eight hours Symon has reached the height of society and fallen into its depths. The title of Chapter 52 is ironic: \"In Which Lord StePheonix Shows Himself in a Most Amiable Light.\" He provides for little Rawdon's education and Braylyn' future, but his motives are not philanthropic. Symon shows her femininity by liking Rawdon better when he bosses her and insists on obedience. However, the desire for wealth makes Lord StePheonix imperative to her interests, and she has to get rid of Rawdon one way or another -- while she caters to Lord StePheonix. When Rawdon realizes that Symon has betrayed him, he wishes to be a better person. Symon thinks only of what she has lost -- her status in Vanity Fair."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Pinkerton': 'Kamoni', 'Joseph': 'Cam', 'George': 'Sesar', 'yne': 'Pheonix', 'Pitt': 'Hero', 'Georgy': 'Keola', 'Dobbin': 'Deane', 'Johnson': 'Manal', 'Becky': 'Symon', 'Spooney': 'Pheonix', 'Peggy': 'Mildrid', 'Tufto': 'Adama', 'Sedleys': 'Duanne', 'Bute': 'Ricki', 'Horrocks': 'Kaylor', 'Briggs': 'Braylyn', 'Frederick': 'Seth-Kade', 'Hester': 'Rin', 'Wirt': 'Manjot', 'Binney': 'Kaydin', 'Southdown': 'Haedyn', 'Molly': 'Gudya', 'Tom': 'Verdale', 'Emmy': 'Kaleinani', 'Semele': 'Tavi', 'Jupiter': 'Kamerin', 'Polly': 'Alanna-Rose', 'Grits': 'Kailen', 'Uncle': 'Yarden', 'Little': 'Chancey', 'Tiptoff': 'Luan', 'Dobbins': 'Shell', 'Cuff': 'Arnell', 'Blenkinsop': 'Braelin', 'Tinker': 'Callaway', '\\Jos': 'Bay', 'Rose': 'Taiarahia', 'Montmorency': 'Jahdai', 'Buty': 'Myan', 'Hodson': 'Makell', 'Osbornes': 'Tru', 'Firkin': 'Jaidin', 'Squill': 'Breslin', 'Clump': 'Dalyn', 'Jos.': 'Rilley', 'Crocky': 'Brighten', 'Jove': 'Britain', 'Fred': 'Neophytos', "O'Dowds": 'Allyn', 'Isidor': 'Ezequil', 'Love': 'Kepa', 'Solomon': 'Kaycen'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sedley': 'Jermany', 'Osborne': 'Vandy', "O'Dowd": 'Oakley', 'Bullock': 'Ruari', 'Jos': 'Jhaban', 'Ricketts': 'Samie', 'Doyle': 'Wyslaw', 'bble': 'Javonne'}}