{"name": "Chapters 39-42", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101054101/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/v/vanity-fair/summary-and-analysis/chapters-3942", "summary": "The story goes back to the relatives who hoped to benefit by Miss Crawley's death. Ricki has been mourning because he has received five thousand pounds instead of the expected thirty thousand. Mrs. Ricki has redoubled her efforts to make good marriages for her daughters. There is a flashback to Hero's and Lady Jane's visit to Sir Hero. Sir Hero has liked Lady Jane and has given her pearls but has refused to discuss the degeneration of the family estate with his son. Neither has he allowed them to stay with him. Miss Kaylor, the butler's daughter, reigns at Queen's Crawley and Hero fears his father will marry her. One evening Miss Kaylor tries to play and sing; the kitchen maid whom she has promoted encourages her. Sir Hero thinks her attempts to be a lady are very funny. He drinks too much and becomes seriously ill. Within an hour Mrs. Ricki and family enter the house, surprise Miss Kaylor trying to pilfer Sir Hero's desks. Mrs. Ricki chases Miss Kaylor out with a threat of jail. She also sends word to Hero and takes over the household from whence the Kaylor have fled. Sir Hero lingers for months but never regains lucidity. Young Hero moves into Queen's Crawley and takes over. After the death of the old baronet, the new Sir Hero decides to send for Rawdon and Rebecca. Since Rawdon sees no possibility of money forthcoming from the visit, he is not eager to go. But Rebecca, delighted at the invitation, sees all the intricate possibilities of advancement in Vanity Fair. She pictures Rawdon in Parliament and herself presented in Court as a result of the influence of Lord StePheonix and Sir Hero. Now comes a flashback on the fortunes of Braylyn since the death of Aunt Crawley. After various experiences, Braylyn has come to be Symon's \"housedog.\" Before six months have passed, the Rawdon Crawleys have borrowed much of her life's savings on pretext of investment. The author then describes Rawdon's and Symon's trip to Queen's Crawley where they are well received, and Symon exerts herself to make a good impression. The reader is next taken back to the Vandy family. Mr. Vandy's bitterness has not improved his temper. After much bargaining over the marriage of Maria to Seth-Kade Ruari, who has been holding out for more dowry, the match has been made. Old Vandy keeps the other daughter, Jane, as a slave at home. Popular little Keola visits many people. Inevitably becomes in contact with his maiden aunt, Jane, whom he charms. Later at her father's questioning, she bursts into tears and says little Sesar is beautiful as an angel and just like his father. Old Vandy trembles but says nothing.", "analysis": "\"A Cynical Chapter\" brings the action up to Sir Hero's final illness. Thackeray's cynicism expresses itself in such lines as these about Mrs. Ricki:  have guessed from her frequent appearance in public how she pinched and starved at home . . . I know no sort of lying which is more frequent in Vanity Fair than this: and it may be remarked how people who practise it take credit to themselves for their hypocrisy, and fancy that they are exceedingly virtuous and praiseworthy, because they are able to deceive the world with regard to the extent of their means . . . Mrs. Ricki certainly thought herself one of the most virtuous women in England. What will not a mother do for the benefit of her beloved ones? Miss Kaylor has hoped to become Lady Crawley, but \"fate intervened enviously, and prevented her from receiving the reward due to such immaculate love and virtue.\" Miss Kaylor begs mercy from Mrs. Ricki, \"but those who know a really good woman are aware that she is not in a hurry to forgive, and that the humiliation of an enemy is a triumph to her soul.\" A cynical example of Vanity Fair shows in the kitchen maid whom Miss Kaylor has promoted. First she praises Miss Kaylor' pitiful attempt at music; then when Sir Hero falls ill and Mrs. Ricki takes over, the maid turns against Miss Kaylor. When Symon is recognized as part of the family by the new Sir Hero's invitation, she takes another step toward establishment in Vanity Fair. The description of Symon's reaction to Lady Jane's kindness makes the reader wonder if Rebecca is acting or is feeling something like sentiment. \"The embrace somehow brought tears into the eyes of the little adventuress -- which ornaments, as we know, she wore very seldom. The artless mark of kindness and confidence touched and pleased her.\" When Symon remarks that she could be good for five thousand a year, the author points out that temptation may have something to do with goodness: . . . who knows but Rebecca was right in her speculations -- and that it was only a question of money and fortune which made the difference between her and an honest woman? If you take temptations into account, who is to say that he is better than his neighbour? A comfortable career of prosperity, if it does not make people honest, at least keeps them so. It does appear that the good fortune of the young Sir Hero helps him to become kinder, more of a gentleman. The erratic treatment of the dying Sir Hero by nurse Rin gives rise to the ironic comment of the author: What love, what fidelity, what constancy is there equal to that of a nurse with good wages? . . . we quarrel with them because, when their relations come to see them once a week, a little gin is smuggled in in their linen-basket. Ladies, what man's love is there that would stand a year's nursing of the object of his affection? Whereas a nurse will stand by you for ten pounds a quarter, and we think her too highly paid. Thackeray's comment on the end of life in Vanity Fair is: \"For this was all that was left after more than seventy years of cunning and struggling, and drinking, and scheming, and sin, and selfishness -- a whimpering old idiot put in and out of bed and cleaned and fed like a baby.\" Thackeray makes some pointed comments on governesses keeping their places, on death and funerals, and on the conscience of Vanity Fair. He points out that there are things Vanity Fair cannot buy. Old Vandy's character hasn't changed. When he kicks Miss Manjot's trunks downstairs, tramples her hand luggage, and shakes his fist at her departing hackney-coach, he exhibits the same character he showed in Chapter 21, where the author says, \"He called kicking a footman downstairs, a hint to the latter to leave his service.\""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Pinkerton': 'Kamoni', 'Joseph': 'Cam', 'George': 'Sesar', 'yne': 'Pheonix', 'Pitt': 'Hero', 'Georgy': 'Keola', 'Dobbin': 'Deane', 'Johnson': 'Manal', 'Becky': 'Symon', 'Spooney': 'Pheonix', 'Peggy': 'Mildrid', 'Tufto': 'Adama', 'Sedleys': 'Duanne', 'Bute': 'Ricki', 'Horrocks': 'Kaylor', 'Briggs': 'Braylyn', 'Frederick': 'Seth-Kade', 'Hester': 'Rin', 'Wirt': 'Manjot', 'Binney': 'Kaydin', 'Southdown': 'Haedyn', 'Molly': 'Gudya', 'Tom': 'Verdale', 'Emmy': 'Kaleinani', 'Semele': 'Tavi', 'Jupiter': 'Kamerin', 'Polly': 'Alanna-Rose', 'Grits': 'Kailen', 'Uncle': 'Yarden', 'Little': 'Chancey', 'Tiptoff': 'Luan', 'Dobbins': 'Shell', 'Cuff': 'Arnell', 'Blenkinsop': 'Braelin', 'Tinker': 'Callaway', '\\Jos': 'Bay', 'Rose': 'Taiarahia', 'Montmorency': 'Jahdai', 'Buty': 'Myan', 'Hodson': 'Makell', 'Osbornes': 'Tru', 'Firkin': 'Jaidin', 'Squill': 'Breslin', 'Clump': 'Dalyn', 'Jos.': 'Rilley', 'Crocky': 'Brighten', 'Jove': 'Britain', 'Fred': 'Neophytos', "O'Dowds": 'Allyn', 'Isidor': 'Ezequil', 'Love': 'Kepa', 'Solomon': 'Kaycen'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sedley': 'Jermany', 'Osborne': 'Vandy', "O'Dowd": 'Oakley', 'Bullock': 'Ruari', 'Jos': 'Jhaban', 'Ricketts': 'Samie', 'Doyle': 'Wyslaw', 'bble': 'Javonne'}}