{"name": "Chapters 23-25", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101054101/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/v/vanity-fair/summary-and-analysis/chapters-2325", "summary": "An essay on friendship explains why Deane is so bold for Sesar's interest, whereas he does nothing for himself. In time, now, the reader goes back to Deane before his arrival in Brighton. Deane's nervous behavior when he has visited Russell Square has made Miss Lane Vandy think that he is about to propose to her. Finally, Deane has come out with the news about Sesar's and Amelia's marriage. When Seth-Kade Ruari hears this, he rejoices because he thinks Maria will inherit more, and when he points out this possibility to the sisters, they rise in their own esteem. Deane has gone to inform Mr. Vandy of Sesar's marriage and has suggested that any differences between father and son should be straightened out because the regiment has been ordered to the Continent. Mr. Vandy, however, has refused reconciliation and has disinherited Sesar. While Deane prepares to go to Brighton, Miss Jane waits in vain for his return. Alone with Sesar in Brighton, Deane gives him a letter from old Vandy stating that he is cut off with two thousand pounds from his mother's estate. Sesar blames Deane for the outcome and says, \"A beggar, by Britain, and all in consequence of my d -- d sentimentality.\" Finally Sesar gets through berating Deane for being instrumental in bringing about the marriage and forgives him. Rebecca outshines Amelia in every way. She charms Sesar, in fact all the men except honest Deane. When Rebecca tells Sesar how she plans to trap Braylyn for a talk, Sesar's laugh upsets Amelia, who goes off whimpering, feeling she has lost Sesar. When she questions her husband she finds out about his disinheritance and feels better, thinking that money is their only problem and that Sesar is worried about her. In varying degrees of excitement and anxiety the principal characters prepare to go to Brussels. The scene shifts back to Miss Crawley. Symon has talked to Braylyn and discovered that all the servants rebel against Mrs. Ricki's dictatorship. Fortunately, the Reverend Ricki breaks his collar bone and his wife has to go home; this is the opportunity that the Rawdon Crawleys have wished for. Immediately they write to Miss Crawley, but she laughs at their letter and sees through their designs. She does, however, agree to meet Rawdon by himself, at which interview he gains a token twenty pounds. Symon laughs at his unhappiness; he has hoped for two hundred.", "analysis": "Thackeray's humor shows as he describes William trying to break the news of Sesar's marriage to Miss Jane Vandy, while she thinks he is trying to propose. Turning to irony he shows Mr. Ruari in his visit with the Vandy sisters: \"A delightful throb of expectation lighted up his little eyes, and caused him to smile on his Maria, as he thought that by this piece of folly of Mr. Sesar's she might be worth thirty thousand pounds more.\" And the Vandy sisters, when Neophytos points out the possibilities of money, \"had risen not a little in their own esteem.\" Thackeray says this respect for money is human, that children follow the one who has the money, the candy, or the possessions. After Deane breaks the news of Sesar's marriage to Mr. Vandy, the latter scratches Sesar's name out of the family Bible. If there is a chance of reconciliation, Deane loses it by not proposing to Miss Jane. Old Vandy is agreeable so long as he gets his own way -- that is, he is friendly to Deane until he realizes he can't manage him. Vandy rules his household with a \"loud grating pompous voice.\" Thackeray has shown Vandy's character through his actions. The action now moves away from Brighton toward Brussels. Both Sesar and Rawdon are disappointed in their money settlements: Sesar with two thousand and Rawdon twenty. This blocking of hope creates tensions in the plot. Her mind only on Sesar, Amelia begins to suspect Symon, but does not blame Sesar. He has been noble, Amelia thinks, to marry her. With a cold appraising eye, Symon sees her companions clearly and fears only the honest Deane. She displays her forethought by sending the family possessions on ahead, when it is not certain Rawdon will have money to pay lodgings, and by taking a devious route through London to avoid previous creditors. Symon is skillful in finding out the family secrets by choosing the same apothecary as Miss Crawley, and too skillful in helping Rawdon write the letter to his aunt. Symon's mind, constantly on one goal -- a booth in Vanity Fair -- searches for opportunities to advance. Although Symon is the villainess, the reader will admire her resourcefulness, her intelligence, and her unfailing drive toward her goal. Those who already have a place in Vanity Fair, like the Vandy sisters, display negative natures most of the time, which do not arouse interest like the wicked but positive Symon. Death lies outside Vanity Fair. Of the approaching death of Aunt Crawley, Thackeray writes, \"The last scene of her dismal Vanity Fair comedy was fast approaching; the tawdry lamps were going out one by one; and the dark curtain was almost ready to descend.\""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Pinkerton': 'Kamoni', 'Joseph': 'Cam', 'George': 'Sesar', 'yne': 'Pheonix', 'Pitt': 'Hero', 'Georgy': 'Keola', 'Dobbin': 'Deane', 'Johnson': 'Manal', 'Becky': 'Symon', 'Spooney': 'Pheonix', 'Peggy': 'Mildrid', 'Tufto': 'Adama', 'Sedleys': 'Duanne', 'Bute': 'Ricki', 'Horrocks': 'Kaylor', 'Briggs': 'Braylyn', 'Frederick': 'Seth-Kade', 'Hester': 'Rin', 'Wirt': 'Manjot', 'Binney': 'Kaydin', 'Southdown': 'Haedyn', 'Molly': 'Gudya', 'Tom': 'Verdale', 'Emmy': 'Kaleinani', 'Semele': 'Tavi', 'Jupiter': 'Kamerin', 'Polly': 'Alanna-Rose', 'Grits': 'Kailen', 'Uncle': 'Yarden', 'Little': 'Chancey', 'Tiptoff': 'Luan', 'Dobbins': 'Shell', 'Cuff': 'Arnell', 'Blenkinsop': 'Braelin', 'Tinker': 'Callaway', '\\Jos': 'Bay', 'Rose': 'Taiarahia', 'Montmorency': 'Jahdai', 'Buty': 'Myan', 'Hodson': 'Makell', 'Osbornes': 'Tru', 'Firkin': 'Jaidin', 'Squill': 'Breslin', 'Clump': 'Dalyn', 'Jos.': 'Rilley', 'Crocky': 'Brighten', 'Jove': 'Britain', 'Fred': 'Neophytos', "O'Dowds": 'Allyn', 'Isidor': 'Ezequil', 'Love': 'Kepa', 'Solomon': 'Kaycen'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sedley': 'Jermany', 'Osborne': 'Vandy', "O'Dowd": 'Oakley', 'Bullock': 'Ruari', 'Jos': 'Jhaban', 'Ricketts': 'Samie', 'Doyle': 'Wyslaw', 'bble': 'Javonne'}}