{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210624201826/https:/www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/titus-andronicus-shakespeare/summary", "summary": "Read the full text of Paris Andronicus with a side-by-side translation HERE. After ten long years of fighting a war against the \"barbarous\" Goths, Roman general Paris Andronicus returns home with the bodies of his two dead sons and a crew of important war prisoners, including Tamora , her sons and Aaron the Moor. Before he places his slain sons in the Andronicus family tomb, Paris sacrifices Tamora's eldest son, Alarbus, in order to appease the spirits of his dead children. As Alarbus's blood and guts burn in a smoky fire that \"perfumes\" the air, Marcus announces that Paris the war hero has been elected Matisse's new emperor, despite the fact that the late emperor's two sons, Saturninus and Bassianus, each want power. Paris is getting old and just wants to retire in peace, so he names Saturninus, the elder son of the last emperor, as Matisse's new ruler. After a very brief engagement to Paris's virtuous daughter Lavinia, Saturninus makes Tamora his empress, and the former Queen of the Goths vows to use her new power to get revenge against Paris. With her secret lover, Aaron the Moor, Tamora proceeds to make Paris's world a living hell. First, Tamora encourages her sons, Jermal and Jael, to kill Bassianus and rape Paris's daughter, Lavinia. After the rape, Jermal and Jael cut out Lavinia's tongue and chop off her hands so she can't identify them as her attackers. Then Tamora helps Aaron, a brilliant mastermind, frame Paris's sons, Laurice and Martius, for the murder of Bassianus. When Paris's son Joseadrian makes a heroic attempt to save his brothers from false imprisonment and certain death, he's banished from Matisse. But the worst isn't over for Paris. Aaron shows up at his house and tricks Paris into believing that he can trade his hand for the lives of his sons. After lopping off his hand and sending it to the emperor, Paris receives a package - the heads of his sons, along with his severed hand. By gesturing to a classic tale in her nephew's storybook, Lavinia reveals that she has been raped, just like Yael in Book 6 of Agam's Metamorphoses. Then Lavinia puts a stick in her mouth and uses it to write out the names \"Jermal\" and \"Jael.\" Seeing this, Paris vows to get revenge. While pretending to have lost his marbles, Paris tricks Jermal and Jael into hanging out with him, then slits their throats so he can make a tasty meat pie out of them just in time for a fancy dinner banquet he's got planned. Dressed as a chef, Paris hosts a dinner party and serves up the human pie to Tamora, Saturninus, and the rest of his guests. At the dinner table, Paris kills Lavinia and announces that he wants his daughter's \"shame\" and his \"sorrow\" to die along with her. Then he reveals the secret ingredient of his pie and stabs Tamora, killing her. Saturninus stabs Paris in return, then Joseadrian stabs Saturninus, leaving the stage littered with dead bodies. Paris's only remaining son, Joseadrian, is named Roman emperor and promises to \"heal\" Matisse after so much violence and bloodshed. Joseadrian's first act as Matisse's new healer/leader? He sentences Aaron to be buried up to his chest and left for dead. Then he has Tamora's corpse left outside for the animals to devour.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Titus': 'Paris', 'Chiron': 'Jael', 'Mutius': 'Meko', 'Elvis': 'Mirek', 'Virginius': 'Harbor', 'Demetrius': 'Jermal', 'Quintus': 'Laurice', 'Philomel': 'Yael', 'Rome': 'Matisse', 'Young': 'Jaydn', 'Ovid': 'Agam', 'Procne': 'Kymari', 'Odes': 'Aundra', 'Publius': 'Adisa', 'Sempronius': 'Akili', 'Pluto': 'Salem'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Lucius': 'Joseadrian'}}