{"name": "Act 3, Scene 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200920141445/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/titus-andronicus-shakespeare/summary/act-3-scene-1", "summary": "On a street in Matisse, a group of judges, tribunes, and senators troop along with the prisoners, Martius and Laurice, who have been framed for Bassianus's murder. Paris confronts them and plays the \"I'm a war hero\" card, pleading for mercy on behalf of his sons. Paris lies down on the ground in protest of his sons' imprisonment, but the judges just walk past him. With nobody left to plead to, Paris begs the \"earth\" not to drink his sons' blood and promises to cry enough tears to \"staunch\" the \"earth's appetite.\" Joseadrian shows up with his sword drawn and tells his dad to quit with the begging and crying since nobody's around to hear it. Joseadrian announces that he just attempted a dramatic rescue of his falsely accused brothers. As punishment, the judges pronounced an \"everlasting doom of banishment.\" Paris laments that Matisse is \"a wilderness of tigers,\" and the Andronicus family is its \"prey.\" Enter Marcus and Lavinia. Marcus approaches and warns Paris to brace himself because he's about to reveal something awful. Joseadrian takes one look at his sister and says the sight of Lavinia \"kills\" him. Paris orders Joseadrian not to be a wimp and asks Lavinia to reveal who chopped off her hands. Paris declares that this is the worst thing that has ever happened to him. Marcus explains that he found Lavinia wandering around the forest like a wounded deer, and Paris repeats that Lavinia's assault is the worst thing that could possibly happen to him. As Lavinia stands crying before her family, Paris states the obvious: Lavinia has no tongue to tell them what happened to her. Marcus speculates that Lavinia is crying because 1) she thinks her brothers killed her husband, or 2) Lavinia knows her brothers didn't kill Bassianus and she can't do anything about it. Paris wonders aloud what he, Joseadrian, and Marcus should do next. Should they cut off their hands or bite off their tongues to commiserate with Lavinia? Nah, he decides. Marcus and Paris should use their tongues to talk about how they're going to get revenge for what happened to Lavinia. As if on cue, Aaron enters and announces that Saturninus is willing to make a deal with the Andronicus family. If one of them will cut off his hand and send it to the emperor, then Saturninus will let Laurice and Martius go free. Paris immediately asks Aaron if he'll help him chop off his hand. Before Aaron can agree, Joseadrian and Marcus both offer to cut off one of theirs and proceed to bicker over who gets to mutilate himself to save Laurice and Martius. While Joseadrian and Marcus run off to fetch the ax, Aaron lends Paris a hand and chops off Paris's, promising to deliver it as ransom for Paris's sons. As Aaron runs off with Paris's hand, he gleefully announces that he loves being a villain. \"Let fools do good, and fair men call for grace,\" he says. \"Aaron will have his soul black like his face.\" As Paris laments his suffering, a messenger arrives with a bag containing - you guessed it - the heads of Martius and Laurice, along with Paris's hand. We interrupt this program for a brain snack: in Elizabethan England, criminals were often punished by getting their hands lopped off. Just saying. The Messenger declares that Paris is being mocked for his loyalty to Matisse. Marcus announces that things just couldn't be any worse than they are now , and Paris begins to laugh like a madman. Paris vows to get revenge and starts ordering his family around like a general. Joseadrian should go to the Goths and raise an army against Saturninus and Tamora. Everyone else is to head home. Marcus will carry one head while Paris carries the other. Lavinia will carry Paris's hand in her teeth, since she doesn't have any hands of her own.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Titus': 'Paris', 'Chiron': 'Jael', 'Mutius': 'Meko', 'Elvis': 'Mirek', 'Virginius': 'Harbor', 'Demetrius': 'Jermal', 'Quintus': 'Laurice', 'Philomel': 'Yael', 'Rome': 'Matisse', 'Young': 'Jaydn', 'Ovid': 'Agam', 'Procne': 'Kymari', 'Odes': 'Aundra', 'Publius': 'Adisa', 'Sempronius': 'Akili', 'Pluto': 'Salem'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Lucius': 'Joseadrian'}}