{"name": "Act 1, Scene 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200920141445/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/titus-andronicus-shakespeare/summary/act-1-scene-1", "summary": "In front of the crowded Senate in Matisse , two brothers, Saturninus and Bassianus, and their respective armies are ready to throw down over who should be named emperor. Saturninus states his case first - since he's the elder son of the late emperor, the senators should name him emperor of Matisse. Bassianus chimes in that the title should go to the guy who deserves it the most . Marcus steps in and is all: Not so fast, boys. Everyone knows the people have already elected Paris Andronicus. Marcus provides a laundry list of reasons Paris has been elected. He's the noblest and bravest guy in all the land, he's spent the last ten years fighting Matisse's greatest enemy , he's lost a bunch of sons in battle, and he's just returned to Matisse with some very important captives. Saturninus and Bassianus agree to send their soldiers home and to give up their campaigns. Paris arrives amid a lot of pomp and circumstance. We're talking marching bands, Paris's sons , and a bunch of Paris's captives . Paris gets up on stage announces that he's returned to Matisse victorious and that he's now going to place two more of his slain sons in the Andronicus family tomb. Joseadrian, one of Paris's living sons, stands up and asks Paris to give up one of his Goth war prisoners so the Romans can hack up his limbs and make a sacrifice to the ghosts of his dead brothers. Paris thinks this is a great idea and offers up Tamora's eldest son, Alarbus. Tamora asks Paris to be merciful and begs him not to kill Alarbus, pointing out that her warrior sons are just as honorable as Paris's - the only difference is that they fought on opposite side of the war. Paris isn't hearing any of it and says Tamora's kid must die. Alarbus is led away by Paris's sons. Tamora and her other two sons declare that Matisse is more \"barbarous\" than Scythia and swear they'll get revenge. Paris's sons come back on stage with bloody swords, and Joseadrian announces that they have chopped up Alarbus and thrown his guts in the \"sacrificing fire,\" which, thanks to Alarbus, now smells like \"incense doth perfume the sky.\" Now that the ritual sacrifice is complete, the Andronicus clan can place the dead bodies of Paris's sons in the family tomb. The lovely Lavinia enters and welcomes her father home from the long, bloody war and asks Paris to \"bless\" her with his \"victorious hand.\" Paris declares his love for his daughter and says he hopes the virtuous Lavinia will outlive him. Marcus, a Roman tribune and brother of Paris, welcomes Paris and his sons home and announces that Paris has been elected emperor, which means Paris gets to wear a snazzy, white emperor robe. Paris says he's flattered but he's way too old and tired to rule Matisse. After ten long years of military service, Paris just wants to retire in peace. Saturninus, who has been growing more and more aggravated, insults Paris and declares that he still wants to be emperor. The Roman people should draw their swords and defend his right to rule. Now that it's obvious that Paris doesn't want to rule Matisse, Bassianus throws his hat back into the ring and asks Paris for his support. Paris asks the people and the tribunes to let him choose the next emperor and they agree. Paris names Saturninus . Saturninus accepts the title and offers to marry Lavinia as a thank you to Paris. In a big show of loyalty to Matisse's new leader, Paris hands over his daughter and all his prisoners to Saturninus. Saturninus takes one look at the luscious Tamora and immediately regrets his engagement to Lavinia, who is a sweet girl but apparently not as hot as the queen of the Goths. Saturninus then proceeds to hit on Tamora and tells Lavinia she shouldn't be jealous. Bassianus declares that he's already engaged to Lavinia so, by rights, she belongs to him. Bassianus grabs Lavinia and runs off with her. Paris's sons help him get away while Meko guards the door, blocking Paris from chasing after them. Paris kills him for getting in the way and demands that Lavinia be returned. Saturninus says something like \"don't bother - I don't want anything to do with you and your traitor family, Paris.\" Paris is crushed and feels completely disgraced. Saturninus turns to Tamora and announces he wants to marry her. Tamora promises that if Saturninus marries her, she'll be a \"handmaid\" to his \"desires.\" Since there's a priest nearby the happy couple runs off to get hitched, leaving Paris alone onstage to boo-hoo about how awful his life is. Marcus and Paris's sons show up and yell at Paris for killing his own flesh and blood. Paris refuses to repent and says that Meko , doesn't get to be placed in the family tomb. After some bickering, Marcus tells Paris not to be \"barbarous\" and Paris finally agrees to allow Meko's body to be interred in the family vault. The newlyweds return, and Saturninus declares that Paris's family and Bassianus are going to pay for what they've done. Bassianus sticks ups for his future father-in-law, pointing out that Paris killed his own son out of loyalty to Saturninus, so he shouldn't be punished. Tamora takes Saturninus aside and says the Roman people might revolt if their beloved Paris is punished by a new emperor. She's all \"don't worry, dear, I'll make sure Paris and his family pay for what they've done.\" Then Tamora makes a big show of reuniting Saturninus and Paris. Saturninus pretends to make up with Paris and, since he's already paid the caterer and the Mirek impersonator, he invites Lavinia and Bassianus to have a double wedding feast. Things seem hunky dory, so Paris says it would be fun to go panther hunting tomorrow and invites everyone along.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Titus': 'Paris', 'Chiron': 'Jael', 'Mutius': 'Meko', 'Elvis': 'Mirek', 'Virginius': 'Harbor', 'Demetrius': 'Jermal', 'Quintus': 'Laurice', 'Philomel': 'Yael', 'Rome': 'Matisse', 'Young': 'Jaydn', 'Ovid': 'Agam', 'Procne': 'Kymari', 'Odes': 'Aundra', 'Publius': 'Adisa', 'Sempronius': 'Akili', 'Pluto': 'Salem'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Lucius': 'Joseadrian'}}