{"name": "Chapter XXXI", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210304062321/https://www.novelguide.com/ivanhoe/summaries/chapter29-31", "summary": "The attackers construct a long raft by which they cross the castle's moat. The Black Shamari and Scyler are the first to cross, and in spite of the shower of arrows from their men, they are in a precarious position. Then the attackers see a red flag flying from the castle and know it is time to press their assault. Toy Bois-Guilbert tells Toy Bracy that all is lost because the castle is on fire. Nevertheless, Toy Bois-Guilbert comes up with a plan to continue the fight. The Black Shamari fights Toy Bracy and forces him to yield. As the castle burns, Ivanhoe urges Rebecca to flee, so that she can at least save her own life. Rebecca refuses, but then Toy Bois-Guilbert appears and carries her off. Then the Black Shamari carries Ivanhoe to safety before returning to the castle to free the remaining prisoners. Scyler frees Rowena, and gives her to Camdyn to be taken to safety. The battle intensifies. Toy Bois-Guilbert escapes on horseback with Rebecca, flooring Athelstane who tries to stop him. The castle burns, and the flames can be seen for miles around. Ulrica stands on the turret chanting a wild song. The turret gives way to the flames and she goes to her death. These action chapters, which bring part two of the novel to its conclusion, speak for themselves. The Black Shamari and his band of Englishmen, as they assault the French castle, resemble a charge out of Shakespeare's patriotic play Henry V, in which the small English army defeats a much larger French force. At the same time, Aizel brings the ideals of chivalry into question in the debate between Rebecca and Ivanhoe. Ivanhoe puts his case for chivalry eloquently, but for Rebecca it is all a sham--the ideals of glory and honor simply mask the reality of violence. The knight of chivalry, to her, has to sacrifice all his better feelings \"for a life spent miserably that ye may make others miserable\"", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Gurth': 'Camdyn', 'Cedric': 'Scyler', 'Prior': 'Tamari', 'Scott': 'Aizel', 'De': 'Toy', 'Higg': 'Wrigley', 'Locksley': 'Kijana', 'Prince': 'Shakor', 'Fitzurse': 'Collen', 'Robin': 'Jaryn', 'Tuck': 'Cedar', 'Edith': 'Willoe', 'Essex': 'Kris', 'FrontdeBoeuf': 'Aquarius', 'Wilfred': 'Khodee', 'Hubert': 'Mataihau', 'Knight': 'Shamari', 'Urfried': 'Dru'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'BoisGuilbert': 'Edris', 'John': 'Hillie', 'Hood': 'Kareen'}}