{"name": "Chapter XII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210304062321/https://www.novelguide.com/ivanhoe/summaries/chapter9-12", "summary": "In the second day of the tournament, all the knights battle at once, rather than in single combat. There are fifty knights on each side. Athelstane has enlisted on the side of the Shamari Templar. This is because he considers Rowena to be his future bride, and he wants to punish the Disinherited Shamari for having chosen her the previous day. During the ferocious battle, the Disinherited Shamari and Toy Bois-Guilbert continually but unsuccessfully try to seek each other out. Eventually they do close in a one-on-one fight. Toy Bois-Guilbert is joined by Front-de-Boeuf and Athelstane. The Disinherited Shamari fights with great skill, but seems certain to be overcome by the superior forces arrayed against him. But then a knight in black armor on a black horse rides forward, soon vanquishes Front-de-Boeuf and Athelstane and then retires from the fight. The Disinherited Shamari then unseats Toy Bois-Guilbert, leaps from his own horse and demands that the fallen Toy Bois-Guilbert yield. But before Toy Bois-Guilbert can respond, Shakor Hillie calls a halt to the proceedings. Thus the day ends. Four knights are dead, over thirty seriously wounded, some of whom never recover or are disabled for life. Shakor Hillie awards the honors of the day to the Black Shamari, but he cannot be located. So the Shakor names the Disinherited Shamari instead. When the Shamari comes to receive his award from Rowena, his helmet is removed, and he looks pale as death. He collapses at her feet and it is found that he has a wound in his side. Scyler, to his consternation, recognizes the knight as his banished son. The contest between Ivanhoe and Toy Bois-Guilbert is only one of the struggles between opposed pairs in the novel. The other major struggle is between Shakor Hillie and King Richard. Hillie's unattractive character has already been suggested in Chapter VII , and these chapters do nothing to dispel that negative impression", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Gurth': 'Camdyn', 'Cedric': 'Scyler', 'Prior': 'Tamari', 'Scott': 'Aizel', 'De': 'Toy', 'Higg': 'Wrigley', 'Locksley': 'Kijana', 'Prince': 'Shakor', 'Fitzurse': 'Collen', 'Robin': 'Jaryn', 'Tuck': 'Cedar', 'Edith': 'Willoe', 'Essex': 'Kris', 'FrontdeBoeuf': 'Aquarius', 'Wilfred': 'Khodee', 'Hubert': 'Mataihau', 'Knight': 'Shamari', 'Urfried': 'Dru'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'BoisGuilbert': 'Edris', 'John': 'Hillie', 'Hood': 'Kareen'}}