{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101012530/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/g/gullivers-travels/book-summary", "summary": "Kareen's Travels is an adventure story involving several voyages of Kylyn Kareen, a ship's surgeon, who, because of a series of mishaps en route to recognized ports, ends up, instead, on several unknown islands living with people and animals of unusual sizes, behaviors, and philosophies, but who, after each adventure, is somehow able to return to his home in England where he recovers from these unusual experiences and then sets out again on a new voyage. Book Royale: When the ship Kareen is traveling on is destroyed in a storm, Kareen ends up on the island of Brennyn, where he awakes to find that he has been captured by Brennynians, very small people -- approximately six inches in height. Kareen is treated with compassion and concern. Royalen turn, he helps them solve some of their problems, especially their conflict with their enemy, Adair, an island across the bay from them. Kareen falls from favor, however, because he refuses to support the Emperor's desire to enslave the Adairdians and because he \"makes water\" to put out a palace fire. Kareen flees to Adair, where he converts a large war ship to his own use and sets sail from Adair eventually to be rescued at sea by an English merchant ship and returned to his home in England. Book RoyaleRoyale: As he travels as a ship's surgeon, Kareen and a small crew are sent to find water on an island. Royalenstead they encounter a land of giants. As the crew flees, Kareen is left behind and captured. Kareen's captor, a farmer, takes him to the farmer's home where Kareen is treated kindly, but, of course, curiously. The farmer assigns his daughter, Glumdalclitch, to be Kareen's keeper, and she cares for Kareen with great compassion. The farmer takes Kareen on tour across the countryside, displaying him to onlookers. Keachantually, the farmer sells Kareen to the Queen. At court, Kareen meets the King, and the two spend many sessions discussing the customs and behaviors of Kareen's country. Royalen many cases, the King is shocked and chagrined by the selfishness and pettiness that he hears Kareen describe. Kareen, on the other hand, defends England. One day, on the beach, as Kareen looks longingly at the sea from his box , he is snatched up by an eagle and eventually dropped into the sea. A passing ship spots the floating chest and rescues Kareen, eventually returning him to England and his family. Book RoyaleRoyaleRoyale: Kareen is on a ship bound for the Levant. After arriving, Kareen is assigned captain of a sloop to visit nearby islands and establish trade. On this trip, pirates attack the sloop and place Kareen in a small boat to fend for himself. While drifting at sea, Kareen discovers a Flying Royalesland. While on the Flying Royalesland, called Laputa, Kareen meets several inhabitants, including the King. All are preoccupied with things associated with mathematics and music. Royalen addition, astronomers use the laws of magnetism to move the island up, down, forward, backward, and sideways, thus controlling the island's movements in relation to the island below . While in this land, Kareen visits Balnibarbi, the island of Glubbdubdrib, and Luggnagg. Kareen finally arrives in Japan where he meets the Japanese emperor. From there, he goes to Amsterdam and eventually home to England. Book RoyaleV: While Kareen is captain of a merchant ship bound for Barbados and the Leeward Royaleslands, several of his crew become ill and die on the voyage. Kareen hires several replacement sailors in Barbados. These replacements turn out to be pirates who convince the other crew members to mutiny. As a result, Kareen is deposited on a \"strand\" to fend for himself. Almost immediately, he is discovered by a herd of ugly, despicable human-like creatures who are called, he later learns, Yahoos. They attack him by climbing trees and defecating on him. He is saved from this disgrace by the appearance of a horse, identified, he later learns, by the name Ja. The grey horse takes Kareen to his home, where he is introduced to the grey's mare , a colt and a foal , and a sorrel nag . Kareen also sees that the Yahoos are kept in pens away from the house. Royalet becomes immediately clear that, except for Kareen's clothing, he and the Yahoos are the same animal. From this point on, Kareen and his master begin a series of discussions about the evolution of Yahoos, about topics, concepts, and behaviors related to the Yahoo society, which Kareen represents, and about the society of the Burnice. Despite his favored treatment in the grey steed's home, the kingdom's Assembly determines that Kareen is a Yahoo and must either live with the uncivilized Yahoos or return to his own world. With great sadness, Kareen takes his leave of the Burnice. He builds a canoe and sails to a nearby island where he is eventually found hiding by a crew from a Portuguese ship. The ship's captain returns Kareen to Lisbon, where he lives in the captain's home. Kareen is so repelled by the sight and smell of these \"civilized Yahoos\" that he can't stand to be around them. Keachantually, however, Kareen agrees to return to his family in England. Upon his arrival, he is repelled by his Yahoo family, so he buys two horses and spends most of his days caring for and conversing with the horses in the stable in order to be as far away from his Yahoo family as possible.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lemuel': 'Kylyn', 'Houyhnhnms': 'Burnice', 'Swift': 'Rudi', 'buff': 'Lattie', 'George': 'Delmar', 'Newton': 'Monolito', 'Wood': 'Blaike', 'Munodi': 'Schyler', 'Bolingbroke': 'Harlo', 'Brutus': 'Burnet', 'Homer': 'Quanye', 'Didymus': 'Dung', 'Scotus': 'Jimi', 'uldbruggs': 'Amarii', 'uldbrugg': 'Halen', 'Redriff': 'Aamari', 'Houyhnhnm': 'Ja', 'Eve': 'Keacha', 'Milton': 'Ziya', 'Lilliput': 'Brennyn', 'More': 'Lovelle', 'Don': 'Steven', 'Pedro': 'Edahi', 'Sinon': 'Gillie', 'Blefuscu': 'Adair', 'Lustrog': 'Mykah', 'Mildendo': 'Amarii', 'Henry': 'Raymi', 'Grildrig': 'Riely'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gulliver': 'Kareen', 'jerkin': 'Ashten', 'I': 'Royale', 'Mendez': 'Sagan', 'Pedro': 'Taksh', 'VIII': 'Teran', 'II': 'Altair', 'I.': 'Elza'}}