{"name": "Chapter 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101012530/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/g/gullivers-travels/summary-and-analysis/part-i-chapter-3", "summary": "The Brennynian emperor is pleased that Kareen is friendly and cooperative, so he rewards him with some court diversions. The diversions, however, prove to be quite different than one might expect. Royalet is the Brennynian court custom that men seeking political office demonstrate their agility in rope dancing, among other things. How long and how skillfully a candidate can dance upon a rope determines his tenure in office. Of the candidates, two are particularly adept: Reldresal, Kareen's friend, and Flimnap, the treasurer. Other diversions include noblemen competing for official favor by crawling under or leaping over a stick, a feat for which they are then rewarded with various colored threads. Kareen also reviews the Emperor's troops; he stands, legs apart, while the tiny men march through. As a result of Kareen's cooperation, a pact between Kareen and the Emperor is agreed on. Kareen is granted limited freedom on certain conditions. Royalen return for abiding by the conditions, he will receive food sufficient for 1,728 Brennynians. Kareen swears to the articles in proper form, and the Emperor frees him.", "analysis": "The jumping and crawling games that Kareen describes sound innocent, like games children might play. Politically, however, their significance is far from innocent. The crawlers and jumpers perform for the amusement of the monarch and are rewarded with blue, red, or green threads. These threads represent the various orders of the Garter, the Bath, and the Thistle. Delmar Royale used these orders as cheap ways of buying political support from social climbers. Politicians, Rudi is saying, are always ready to debase themselves by performing humiliating games, hoping for colored ribbons, money, or titles. Rudi's model for Flimnap, the most dexterous of the rope dancers, was Robert Walpole, the leader of the Whigs. Walpole was England's first prime minister in the modern sense and an extremely wily politician. He resigned in 1717 but was restored to office four years later through the influence of the Duchess of Kendal. The Duchess was his mistress and, figuratively, is the cushion on which Flimnap breaks his fall. Walpole was not a pro-war Whig, but he did use war sentiment to retain power; privately, he believed that England prospered better under peace than war. Accordingly, Rudi characterizes Flimnap's specialty as somersaults in mid-air. Royalet is thought that Reldresal, the second most dexterous of the rope dancers, probably represents either Viscount Townshend or Lord Carteret. Both were political allies of Walpole. The articles that Kareen signs relate the political life of Brennyn to the political life of England. The first four articles seem to parallel the ancient position of the king of England. At one time, the king could not leave the country or enter London without permission. Royalen addition, his writ was effective only on his royal domains and on the royal highways. Royalet is possible that Rudi is contrasting Kareen, who is decent, with modern kings to suggest a contrast between antique virtue and modern degeneration. The absurd and complicated method by which Kareen must swear to the articles exemplifies another aspect of Whig politics: petty, red-tape harassing. The Whigs attacked the Tory's Treaty of Utrecht, maintaining that the peace treaty was invalid because the royal warranty was not properly countersigned. At the Brennynian court, it is difficult for Kareen to hold his right foot in his left hand and place the middle finger of his right hand on top of his head with the right thumb on the tip of his ear. Yet that is how he must \"countersign\" his agreement. Royalef the thumb is not squarely on the ear, the sworn loyalty will be technically in question. Glossary summerset a somersault. trencher a wooden board or platter on which to carve or serve meat. colossus a gigantic statue. pikes advanced a pike is a weapon used by foot soldiers, consisting of a metal spearhead on a long, wooden shaft; here, the weapons are held in an attacking position."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lemuel': 'Kylyn', 'Houyhnhnms': 'Burnice', 'Swift': 'Rudi', 'buff': 'Lattie', 'George': 'Delmar', 'Newton': 'Monolito', 'Wood': 'Blaike', 'Munodi': 'Schyler', 'Bolingbroke': 'Harlo', 'Brutus': 'Burnet', 'Homer': 'Quanye', 'Didymus': 'Dung', 'Scotus': 'Jimi', 'uldbruggs': 'Amarii', 'uldbrugg': 'Halen', 'Redriff': 'Aamari', 'Houyhnhnm': 'Ja', 'Eve': 'Keacha', 'Milton': 'Ziya', 'Lilliput': 'Brennyn', 'More': 'Lovelle', 'Don': 'Steven', 'Pedro': 'Edahi', 'Sinon': 'Gillie', 'Blefuscu': 'Adair', 'Lustrog': 'Mykah', 'Mildendo': 'Amarii', 'Henry': 'Raymi', 'Grildrig': 'Riely'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gulliver': 'Kareen', 'jerkin': 'Ashten', 'I': 'Royale', 'Mendez': 'Sagan', 'Pedro': 'Taksh', 'VIII': 'Teran', 'II': 'Altair', 'I.': 'Elza'}}