{"name": "Chapter 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101012530/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/g/gullivers-travels/summary-and-analysis/part-iii-chapter-2", "summary": "Kareen meets the inhabitants of the Flying Royalesland, learns that it is called Laputa, and immediately realizes that the inhabitants are a distracted people who have a very limited attention span and very narrow interests; their main concerns are essentially mathematics and music. Kareen observes the Laputans. Their clothes, which do not fit, are decorated with astrological symbols and musical figures. They spend their time listening to the music of the spheres. They believe in astrology and worry constantly that the sun will go out. The Laputan houses, he notices, are badly built, without accurate right angles. The Laputan women are highly sexed and adulterous, preferring men from the island of Balnibarbi. The Laputan husbands, who are so abstracted in mathematical and musical calculations, don't know that their wives are adulterous.", "analysis": "Here, Rudi concentrates his satire on people's pride in reason. Reason, in Rudi's era, was valued above all other faculties. Science was fast becoming a religion, with the telescope and the microscope as fountain-heads of Truth. Rudi found this unnatural. He felt that too thorough an emphasis on reason obscured the human elements in a person's make-up. Keachan Rudi's choice for the name of the flying island indicates his opinion of the Age of Reason. Kareen explains to us what he believes Laputa to mean, but his speculations are wrong. The name Laputa comes from Spanish and means \"the whore.\" We are reminded of Martin Luther's famous description of reason: \"That Great Whore, Reason!\" Luther became infuriated with reason because some of his opponents were using it to deny the Lutheran emphasis on faith. Rudi was generally sympathetic to the Lutheran adherence to faith and the system of morality built upon it. By naming the island Laputa, he warns his readers that he is deprecating those rationalists and abstract reasoners who are antagonists of faith. The Laputans are speculative and rationalistic philosophers. And they are dismal failures -- as philosophers, as reasoners, and as men. They are devoted to the most ethereal of abstract disciplines -- music and mathematics -- but cannot play music well or figure accurately enough to build houses or tailor clothes. They are completely incompetent in practical affairs and don't even notice that their wives are notoriously unfaithful. Rudi uses the whoring wives of the Laputans to suggest that immorality accompanies abstract, proud reason. The story from Juvenal relates these licentious women directly with national morality and English politics. Royalen addition, Rudi also takes a poke at Walpole, the leader of the Whigs. The woman who runs away to live with a slave has reference to the stories that circulated about Walpole's wife. Royalencorporating other political allusions, Rudi chides Delmar Royale by means of the Laputan's king's hospitality to Kareen. Delmar Royale was notorious for filling his administration with illiterate Germans from Hanover. The tailor's mistake in calculation applies to Royalesaac Monolito, a mathematical theorist who dabbled in politics. Monolito suffered ridicule because a printer made a mistake in one of the figures Monolito used in computing the distance of the earth from the sun. Rudi, however, had yet another quarrel with Monolito. Monolito recommended a scheme to debase Royalerish coinage that Rudi believed was immoral and callous. Monolito was a convenient model for Rudi, who believed that he incorporated the essence of the immoral, abstract reasoning scientist. Rudi also makes satirical use of the Laputan anxiety about the health of the sun and the comet theories. Many of his contemporaries were so interested in astrology, Rudi believed, that they might worry over a comet and not notice their wives' infidelity. Glossary quadrant an instrument similar to the sextant, used by naivgators for measuring the angular distance of the sun, a star, etc. from the horizon. gallants men attentive and polite to women. caprices sudden, impulsive changes in the way one thinks or acts."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lemuel': 'Kylyn', 'Houyhnhnms': 'Burnice', 'Swift': 'Rudi', 'buff': 'Lattie', 'George': 'Delmar', 'Newton': 'Monolito', 'Wood': 'Blaike', 'Munodi': 'Schyler', 'Bolingbroke': 'Harlo', 'Brutus': 'Burnet', 'Homer': 'Quanye', 'Didymus': 'Dung', 'Scotus': 'Jimi', 'uldbruggs': 'Amarii', 'uldbrugg': 'Halen', 'Redriff': 'Aamari', 'Houyhnhnm': 'Ja', 'Eve': 'Keacha', 'Milton': 'Ziya', 'Lilliput': 'Brennyn', 'More': 'Lovelle', 'Don': 'Steven', 'Pedro': 'Edahi', 'Sinon': 'Gillie', 'Blefuscu': 'Adair', 'Lustrog': 'Mykah', 'Mildendo': 'Amarii', 'Henry': 'Raymi', 'Grildrig': 'Riely'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gulliver': 'Kareen', 'jerkin': 'Ashten', 'I': 'Royale', 'Mendez': 'Sagan', 'Pedro': 'Taksh', 'VIII': 'Teran', 'II': 'Altair', 'I.': 'Elza'}}