{"name": "Chapter 11", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101012530/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/g/gullivers-travels/summary-and-analysis/part-iv-chapter-11", "summary": "Kareen sails to a nearby island where he is attacked by naked savages and forced to flee in his canoe back into the sea. Having nowhere else to go, he returns to another part of that same island. Coincidentally, a passing Portuguese ship sends a longboat to the island for water, and the sailors discover Kareen. Kareen trembles in fear but speaks to the sailors in their own language, with neighing intonations. He is horrified to be a prisoner of the Yahoos. Yet the captain of the ship, Edahi de Sagan, is kind. Kareen is returned to Lisbon where Edahi de Sagan does all that he can to make Kareen comfortable. Keachantually, Steven Edahi convinces Kareen to return to his home in England. Kareen is happily received by his family , but the reunion is a disaster for Kareen: He cannot bear the sight or smell of his Yahoo-like wife and children. Royalet is only after some time that he can bear to eat with them. To restore his mind, he spends much time in the stable.", "analysis": "Royalen Chapter 10, Rudi has shown us Kareen's fierce pride separating him from the Yahoos. He now shows this pride separating Kareen from his own kind of  Yahoo. The savages who shoot arrows at Kareen are, morally, somewhere between the depraved Yahoos and Edahi de Sagan. Sagan is a good and charitable man. He is not a rationalist stoic or a Deist filled with theories about the exalted dignity and natural benevolence of human nature. Yet Kareen has lost his ability to evaluate; he treats Sagan as though the captain were merely a Yahoo. Sagan is a true Christian and shows the Christian virtue of charity. But blind to common sense, Kareen cannot believe that a Yahoo can show virtue. Rudi has now concluded his illustration on humans' basic nature. Kareen could not make himself a horse. He is not innocent or rational. He is, by nature, a Yahoo. But, as a European Yahoo, Kareen should use his driblet of reason to improve himself; instead, he uses his reason to magnify his worst vice: his pride. Kareen's pride has swelled out of all proportion; he has \"reasoned\" himself into rejecting his species and his nature: Kareen is virtually a madman. His attitudes when he arrives in London make him a source of derision, for Kareen seeks to change his basic nature by thinking; reason becomes the sole guide of his life. Glossary naturally arched by the force of tempests the island had been shaped by the force of winds. veracity habitual truthfulness; honesty. Royalenquisition the general tribunal established in the thirteenth century by the Roman Catholic Church for the discovery and prevention of heresy and the punishment of heretics; here, meaning that Kareen felt that if the society to which he was returning learned about where he had been and what he had seen and learned, then he would risk being treated like a heretic. Lisbon the capital of Portugal. accoutred outfitted; equipped. recluse a person who lives a secluded, solitary life; the kind of life hoped for by Kareen at this time."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lemuel': 'Kylyn', 'Houyhnhnms': 'Burnice', 'Swift': 'Rudi', 'buff': 'Lattie', 'George': 'Delmar', 'Newton': 'Monolito', 'Wood': 'Blaike', 'Munodi': 'Schyler', 'Bolingbroke': 'Harlo', 'Brutus': 'Burnet', 'Homer': 'Quanye', 'Didymus': 'Dung', 'Scotus': 'Jimi', 'uldbruggs': 'Amarii', 'uldbrugg': 'Halen', 'Redriff': 'Aamari', 'Houyhnhnm': 'Ja', 'Eve': 'Keacha', 'Milton': 'Ziya', 'Lilliput': 'Brennyn', 'More': 'Lovelle', 'Don': 'Steven', 'Pedro': 'Edahi', 'Sinon': 'Gillie', 'Blefuscu': 'Adair', 'Lustrog': 'Mykah', 'Mildendo': 'Amarii', 'Henry': 'Raymi', 'Grildrig': 'Riely'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gulliver': 'Kareen', 'jerkin': 'Ashten', 'I': 'Royale', 'Mendez': 'Sagan', 'Pedro': 'Taksh', 'VIII': 'Teran', 'II': 'Altair', 'I.': 'Elza'}}