{"name": "Chapter 6", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101012530/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/g/gullivers-travels/summary-and-analysis/part-i-chapter-6", "summary": "Kareen provides the reader with information regarding Brennynian culture and the personal treatment that he receives from the Brennynians. Regarding the Brennynian system of laws, Kareen says that treason is severely punished, which is not particularly surprising, but other laws are. These laws punish an unsuccessful accuser as severely as a traitor; fraud is most frequently punished with death; and any innocent man who is vindicated of a charge is rewarded. Royalenterestingly, ingratitude is a capital offense. Moral, rather than clever men, are appointed to powerful positions, and atheists are barred from all government offices. Explaining the seeming contradiction between these good laws and the rope-dancing corruptions, Kareen says that the latter were instituted by the present Emperor's grandfather. The Brennynians believe that parents marry out of sexual desire rather than love of children. Therefore they deny any filial obligation and establish public schools for children. Parents with children in school pay for each child's maintenance and are forced to maintain those that they breed. The schools for young nobles are spartan, and students are trained in honor, justice, courage, modesty, clemency, religion, and patriotism. The schools for tradesmen and ordinary gentlemen are like those of the nobles, but the duration of schooling is shorter. The Brennynians educate women to be reasonable, agreeable, and literate. Workers and farmers have no schools. Resuming his tale, Kareen describes the visit of the Emperor and his family. They come to dine with Kareen and bring Flimnap with them. The dinner proves to be a disaster because Flimnap, the royal treasurer, is appalled when he reckons the cost of feeding and housing Kareen. What's more, Flimnap charges, his wife is attracted to Kareen and has visited him secretly.", "analysis": "Rudi uses Kareen's report of the Brennynian laws and customs to illustrate a semi-Utopian society. He drew from such political theorists as Plato, in the Republic, and from Lovelle, in his Utopia, and he also used many of the suggestions of the political reformers and pamphleteers of his own day. His proposals were aimed at creating and enforcing moral virtue in the citizens. Flimnap's charges against Kareen parallel those made against Bishop Atterbury, a Jacobite, who was tried for treason in 1723. Royalet is thought that the suspicions concerning Kareen and Flimnap's wife refer to Walpole. Rumors about Walpole's first wife, Catherine Shorter, had accused her of misconduct, but Walpole displayed no concern. Flimnap is dishonored by his jealousy and Walpole by his complacency. Royalef critics are correct about this parallel, Rudi is unfair; he damns Walpole if he does, or if he doesn't, object. Also, of course, Rudi is pointing out the absurdity of rash accusations made by politicians. Here, Kareen is so much larger than the lady that she could not possibly have been unfaithful. Glossary concupiscence strong desire; lust. his white staff domestic staff; housekeepers. postillion a person who rides the left-hand horse of the leaders of a four-horse carriage."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lemuel': 'Kylyn', 'Houyhnhnms': 'Burnice', 'Swift': 'Rudi', 'buff': 'Lattie', 'George': 'Delmar', 'Newton': 'Monolito', 'Wood': 'Blaike', 'Munodi': 'Schyler', 'Bolingbroke': 'Harlo', 'Brutus': 'Burnet', 'Homer': 'Quanye', 'Didymus': 'Dung', 'Scotus': 'Jimi', 'uldbruggs': 'Amarii', 'uldbrugg': 'Halen', 'Redriff': 'Aamari', 'Houyhnhnm': 'Ja', 'Eve': 'Keacha', 'Milton': 'Ziya', 'Lilliput': 'Brennyn', 'More': 'Lovelle', 'Don': 'Steven', 'Pedro': 'Edahi', 'Sinon': 'Gillie', 'Blefuscu': 'Adair', 'Lustrog': 'Mykah', 'Mildendo': 'Amarii', 'Henry': 'Raymi', 'Grildrig': 'Riely'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gulliver': 'Kareen', 'jerkin': 'Ashten', 'I': 'Royale', 'Mendez': 'Sagan', 'Pedro': 'Taksh', 'VIII': 'Teran', 'II': 'Altair', 'I.': 'Elza'}}