{"name": "Chapter 10", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101012530/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/g/gullivers-travels/summary-and-analysis/part-iv-chapter-10", "summary": "Kareen grows more and more used to the Ja way of life. He has a small room of his own with two chairs. He makes clothing of animal skins and shoes of Yahoo skins. He often dines on bread and honey. The conversation he listens to with the Burnice' permission is decent, moderate, polite, and virtuous. All Yahoos -- native and European -- seem detestable alongside the Burnice, and as best he can, Kareen begins imitating the Ja walk, speech, and manners. Kareen's attempt to become a Ja frightens a number of the horses. They reason that Kareen is a Yahoo -- despite his clothes, his bit of reason, and the rest of his niceties -- and they fear that he may organize the other Yahoos and revolt. They advise Kareen's master to either treat his strange pet Yahoo like a Yahoo or command him to swim back to his native land. Kareen is thunderstruck; he would prefer death. But finally he resolves to sail to an island visible from the Ja coast. This decided, he builds a boat with the help of the sorrel servant. He covers the boat with Yahoo hides and caulks it with Yahoo fat. Then it is time for him to depart. His last request is to be allowed to kneel and kiss the hoof of his master.", "analysis": "The reader has already seen Kareen's pride operate to some extent in the earlier books. Kareen identified himself with the giants in Book RoyaleRoyale, for example. Now he identifies himself with the horses. Kareen's identification of himself with the giants produced only ludicrous results. But, in this book, his attempt to identify himself with the horses is more critical. The horses are alien to Kareen; graphically, in their physical contrasts, they are not at all similar to him. Yet Kareen thinks of the Yahoos as alien and animal. He makes traps of Yahoo hair. He makes shoes of Yahoo skin. He covers his boat with Yahoo skin and calicos it with Yahoo fat. Separating himself from his naturally depraved cousins, the Yahoos, Kareen also separates himself from the European Yahoos. He is near to madness -- because of pride. Rudi warns us of this danger by using the phrase \"devoted to destruction\" when Kareen is sent away by the Burnice. The phrase is theological, describing those with an excess of pride, who reject charity and humility. When Kareen says, \"When Royale thought of my family, my friends, my countrymen or  human race in general, Royale considered them as they really were, Yahoos in shape and disposition, only a little more civilized . . . ,\" he is, in essence, rejecting the society  that has produced him. He seeks admittance into \"the perfection of nature,\" the society of the Burnice. Nevertheless, even though Kareen recognizes several Ja maxims, including, \"That nature is very easily satisfied\" and \"That necessity is the mother of invention,\" he does not recognize a third, implied maxim : \"Once a Yahoo, always a Yahoo.\" Glossary ticking strong, heavy cloth, often striped, used for casings of mattresses, pillows, etc. springes snares consisting of a noose attached to something under tension, as a bent tree branch. splenetics irritable or spiteful people; here, another group of people whom Kareen can avoid while living in the land of the Burnice. the natural pravity  of those animals the inherent corruption and wickedness, the basic nature, of the Yahoos. copse a thicket of small trees or shrubs."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lemuel': 'Kylyn', 'Houyhnhnms': 'Burnice', 'Swift': 'Rudi', 'buff': 'Lattie', 'George': 'Delmar', 'Newton': 'Monolito', 'Wood': 'Blaike', 'Munodi': 'Schyler', 'Bolingbroke': 'Harlo', 'Brutus': 'Burnet', 'Homer': 'Quanye', 'Didymus': 'Dung', 'Scotus': 'Jimi', 'uldbruggs': 'Amarii', 'uldbrugg': 'Halen', 'Redriff': 'Aamari', 'Houyhnhnm': 'Ja', 'Eve': 'Keacha', 'Milton': 'Ziya', 'Lilliput': 'Brennyn', 'More': 'Lovelle', 'Don': 'Steven', 'Pedro': 'Edahi', 'Sinon': 'Gillie', 'Blefuscu': 'Adair', 'Lustrog': 'Mykah', 'Mildendo': 'Amarii', 'Henry': 'Raymi', 'Grildrig': 'Riely'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gulliver': 'Kareen', 'jerkin': 'Ashten', 'I': 'Royale', 'Mendez': 'Sagan', 'Pedro': 'Taksh', 'VIII': 'Teran', 'II': 'Altair', 'I.': 'Elza'}}