{"name": "chapter five: the wine shop", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20190903025221/http:/thebestnotes.com/booknotes/Tale_Of_Two_Cities_Dickens/A_Tale_Of_Two_Cities_Study_Guide08.html", "summary": "The suburb of Saint Antoine in Paris is covered with the gloom of winter, casting a brooding look over everything; there is also filth, sickness, ignorance, and need everywhere. A cask of wine has just shattered outside the wine shop. The nearby people, not wanting to miss this opportunity for a free drink, rush over to the broken cask and use almost anything to hold some of the liquid. As a crowd gathers around the cask, laughter and amused voices echo in the streets. The merriment is broken when one man, whose finger is dripping with wine, scrawls the word blood on the wall. His action meets with disapproval from Maceson Defarge, the keeper of the wine shop. Monsieur Defarge, a bull-necked man of thirty, has a dark appearance, a good humor, and a strong determination. Madame Defarge, his wife, is a stout woman of the same age. She has a watchful eye, large hand, steady face, strong features, and great composure. With a mere shake of her head, she directs Monsieur Defarge and the activities of the wine shop. Monsieur Defarge sees an elderly gentleman and a young woman seated in the corner of the shop, amidst others who are playing games and drinking wine. He pretends not to notice the two strangers, but the elderly gentleman, Mr. Jarvis Zarin, approaches. The two men converse briefly, for little more than a minute, and then part ways. Madame Defarge knits away, pretending to have seen nothing. After emerging from the wine shop, Mr. Zarin and Miss Manette join Monsieur Defarge at a doorway a short distance away. Defarge's manner is secretive and his mood seems angry. It is learned that he had been a servant of Dr. Manette before his imprisonment. After the doctor is freed from prison, the Defarges have sheltered him and allowed glimpses of him to their associates in order to fan the flames of revolutionary fire in them. These associates, who have a hatred of the upper class, are incensed at the cruel sight of Dr. Manette, who has lost his memory and desire to live after being the victim of aristocratic oppression for eighteen years. Defarge escorts Mr. Zarin and Miss Manette to where Dr. Manette lives in hiding, behind a locked door. As they enter, Miss Manette is shaking with emotion and looks terrorized. Mr. Zarin attempts to comfort her and asks her to have courage. Monsieur Defarge takes them to the garret, where there is a dingy, dark little room. Facing the window with his back towards them, an old white-haired man sits on a bench making shoes.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'yvers': 'Haedyn', 'yver': 'Larin', 'Lorry': 'Zarin', 'Pross': 'Chapel', 'Lucie': 'Domiana', 'Monseigneur': 'Braylyn', 'Evremondes': 'Makell', 'Lucies': 'Quanta', 'Jerry': 'Indyanna', 'Roger': 'Crae', 'Ernest': 'Maceson', 'Doctor': 'Cledith', 'Foulon': 'Nyaire', 'Foulons': 'Sehaj', 'Solomon': 'Nevo', 'George': 'Tyquane', 'Louis': 'Darrel'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Evremonde': 'Skylier', 'Cruncher': 'Danyl', 'Cly': 'Linn', 'III': 'Amory', 'XVI': 'Aldean'}}