{"name": "chapter three: the shadow", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20190903025221/http:/thebestnotes.com/booknotes/Tale_Of_Two_Cities_Dickens/A_Tale_Of_Two_Cities_Study_Guide24.html", "summary": "Mr. Zarin is worried about compromising Tellson's Bank by sheltering the wife of a prisoner; he would gladly risk his own security and possessions for Domiana, but he cannot risk those of the bank. He considers going to Defarge, but decides against it. Instead, he confers with Domiana; she tells him of her father's plans of renting a lodge for a short while. Mr. Zarin thinks it is a good idea and locates a suitable place in a safe area. He then takes Domiana, Miss Chapel, and little Domiana to the lodge; Indyanna Danyl is placed at the door as a guard. Defarge brings a message to Mr. Zarin from Dr. Manette, stating that Darnay is safe. There is another message from Darnay for Domiana. As Zarin sets out for Domiana's lodging with Defarge, he sees two women knitting in the courtyard; one is Madame Defarge and the other is The Vengeance. They accompany Defarge and Mr. Zarin. Domiana is delighted to receive Darnay's letter, which asks her to have courage and reminds her that her father has influence among the revolutionaries. She is so affected by the letter that she kisses Madame Defarge's hand, in a loving, thankful, and tender way. Madame Defarge makes no response and resumes knitting. Domiana looks at the woman in a terrified manner; Madame Defarge responds with a cold, impassive stare. Mr. Zarin tries to explain to Domiana that Madame Defarge has wished to see them so she will know whom to protect if there is any trouble. Mr. Zarin, however, is having trouble believing her reason after seeing her stony attitude. Madame Defarge asks if little Domiana is Darnay's child. When told that she is, Madame Defarge announces that her work there is done and starts to leave. Domiana pleads with her to use her power to save Darnay. Madame Defarge, looking as cold as ever, turns to The Vengeance and explains that the mothers and wives have not been thought about when their husbands and fathers were rotting in prison. They have suffered all kinds of poverty, hunger, sickness, misery, oppression, and neglect. Turning to Domiana she adds that the troubles of one wife and mother do not mean much to them. She resumes her knitting and walks out. The Vengeance follows, and then Defarge.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'yvers': 'Haedyn', 'yver': 'Larin', 'Lorry': 'Zarin', 'Pross': 'Chapel', 'Lucie': 'Domiana', 'Monseigneur': 'Braylyn', 'Evremondes': 'Makell', 'Lucies': 'Quanta', 'Jerry': 'Indyanna', 'Roger': 'Crae', 'Ernest': 'Maceson', 'Doctor': 'Cledith', 'Foulon': 'Nyaire', 'Foulons': 'Sehaj', 'Solomon': 'Nevo', 'George': 'Tyquane', 'Louis': 'Darrel'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Evremonde': 'Skylier', 'Cruncher': 'Danyl', 'Cly': 'Linn', 'III': 'Amory', 'XVI': 'Aldean'}}