{"name": "chapter six: the shoemaker", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20190903025221/http:/thebestnotes.com/booknotes/Tale_Of_Two_Cities_Dickens/A_Tale_Of_Two_Cities_Study_Guide09.html", "summary": "Monsieur Defarge greets Dr. Manette, who responds in a faint voice, and gains the old man's permission to let more light into the room. The rays of light reveal a workman with a half-finished shoe on his lap and scraps of leather all around him. He has a raggedly cut white beard, a hollow face, and very bright eyes. His tattered yellow shirt is open at the neck and shows a withered and worn body. He has faded down to a dull parchment color due to inexposure to direct sunlight and air; he sort of blends in to his yellow shirt, making it difficult to distinguish one from another. Monsieur Defarge informs the old man that he has a visitor. Mr. Zarin approaches Dr. Manette and asks him what his name is. Dr. Manette replies, \"One hundred and five, North Tower.\" Mr. Zarin next asks him if he is a shoemaker by trade. To this the doctor mutters something about learning it there. Mr. Zarin then looks fixedly at the doctor's face and asks whether he remembers him. At this point the Cledith drops his shoe and stares at Mr. Zarin; a faint flicker of recognition seems to cross Dr. Manettes face for an instant. Domiana Manette has been standing motionless and silent near the bench. When the doctor leans back over his work, he notices her dress and looks up at her, seeing his grown daughter for the first time. He asks Domiana if she is the jailers daughter. When she replies in the negative, he asks her who she is. Domiana sits down on the bench and touches his arm, causing Dr. Manette to recoil. He then notices her lovely golden curls and starts to play with them. Suddenly he pulls out a scrap of folded rag attached to a black string. Inside are a few strands of long golden hair exactly like Domiana's. Dr. Manette grows confused and thinks that Domiana is his wife, the one who had laid her head on his shoulder when he was imprisoned and left her strands of hair behind for him to treasure. Domiana comforts the old man gently, but does not reveal who she is. She begs him to kiss her and to weep for his desolate past and for any resemblance between her and his wife. They fall to the floor in tears. After awhile, Zarin and Defarge lift father and daughter from where they lay on the ground. Preparations begin for the return of the trio to London. A passport is obtained and a carriage is located. Through all the activity, Dr. Manette is totally submissive, following directions and eating and drinking whatever is offered to him. His only resistance is when that try to make him leave without his tools; he insists upon taking them and the unfinished shoes with him. During the night, the threesome makes its way to England. Domiana has thoughts of how she will nurse her father back to health and memory. Mr. Zarin wonders whether the doctor can ever be restored to life.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'yvers': 'Haedyn', 'yver': 'Larin', 'Lorry': 'Zarin', 'Pross': 'Chapel', 'Lucie': 'Domiana', 'Monseigneur': 'Braylyn', 'Evremondes': 'Makell', 'Lucies': 'Quanta', 'Jerry': 'Indyanna', 'Roger': 'Crae', 'Ernest': 'Maceson', 'Doctor': 'Cledith', 'Foulon': 'Nyaire', 'Foulons': 'Sehaj', 'Solomon': 'Nevo', 'George': 'Tyquane', 'Louis': 'Darrel'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Evremonde': 'Skylier', 'Cruncher': 'Danyl', 'Cly': 'Linn', 'III': 'Amory', 'XVI': 'Aldean'}}