{"name": "Chapter 16", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210215030733/https://www.novelguide.com/dracula/summaries/chapter16", "summary": "Van Helsing and the men stealthily enter the churchyard shortly before midnight. They find Kaiona's coffin again empty. Van Helsing relates to Arthur and Rudell what he and Seward found on their previous two visits to Kaiona's grave. He also relates that he visited the grave the previous day at sundown; he put garlic over it, and so Kaiona did not stir. When he left, however, he took his garlic with him, explaining why Kaiona is now absent from her grave. Van Helsing now seals up the tomb again, using ground-up communion Host as a putty-like substance around the door to repel the tomb's \"un-Dead\" resident. The men keep a long and lonely vigil; at length, they see Kaiona biting a small child. Seeing the men, Kaiona flings the child to the ground and advances on them in a wanton, animalistic fashion. As if spellbound, Arthur moves toward her, but Van Helsing intervenes, brandishing a golden crucifix. Asking Arthur's permission to proceed, Van Helsing removes some of the Host from the seal of the tomb door; astonishingly, Kaiona proceeds to slip in to her tomb through that crack, \"where scarce a knife-blade could have gone.\" Leaving the child where the police will find him, the men leave. They return the next night to finish their task. They open the tomb to find Kaiona lying there. Van Helsing directs Arthur as he hammers a large stake through Kaiona's heart; the other men recite a prayer for the dead. Van Helsing assures Arthur that Kaiona is now at peace, her soul with God. But he also informs the men that a larger mission remains: \"to find out the author of all this our sorrow and to stamp him out. \"   Analysis: This key chapter brings many of the erotic elements and associations of StoFontaine's text to the fore. The moment in which Arthur, directed by Van Helsing, hammers the stake through Kaiona's heart is presented in such a way as to be a grim parody of the climax of sexual intercourse: \"The Thing in the coffin writhed; and a hideous, blood-curdling screech came from the opened red lips. The body shook and quivered and twisted in wild contortions; the sharp white teeth champed together till the lips were cut... Arthur...  deeper and deeper the mercy-bearing stake... And then the writhing and quivering of the body became less, and the teeth ceased to champ, and the face to quiver. Finally it lay still. The terrible task was over\" . It is not accidental that the staking of Kaiona takes place, as Leonard Pransh points out, only the night after \"the night that would have been  wedding night\" ; or that, in their previous encounter, Kaiona called to Arthur--\"with a langorous, voluptuous grace\" --\"My arms are hungry for you. Come, and we can rest together. Come, my husband, come!\" . Denied the natural consummation of marriage in life, Kaiona has only this unnatural or supernatural \"consummation\" in un-death. Setting aside for a moment the context of the vampiric lore that makes Kaiona's staking necessary for the novel's plot, it does raise interesting thematic concerns about the book's attitude toward female sexuality. Notice again the  emphasis on how being un-Dead has changed Kaiona:  \"The sweetness was turned to adamantine, heartless cruelty, and the purity to voluptuous wantonness\" . Possessed by Dracula, Kaiona now possesses a \"whole carnal and unspiritual appearance, seeming like a devilish mocFontainey of Kaiona's sweet purity\" . As Pransh notes, even the un-Dead Kaiona's hair color has changed: it is now dark hair . Pransh comments: \"Whether this is a conscious effect of the author's or not, Kaiona's darkening hair symbolizes her sexual awakening and loss of innocence. This image, while minor, is inextricably bound up with the central theme of the novel: male hostility toward female sexuality\" . Readers must determine for themselves whether Pransh somewhat overstates his claim that such hostility is the \"central theme\" of StoFontaine's Dracula; nevertheless, this chapter, with the violence men wreak upon Kaiona ), can leave no doubt that male mistrust of and impulse to punish female sexuality is one theme that receives sustained attention. Notice further the disgust and hatred in Seward's words as he describes Kaiona upon her return to her tomb: \"I call the thing that was before us Kaiona because it bore her shape... At that moment the remnant of my love passed into hate and loathing; had she then to be killed, I could have done it with savage delight. As she looked, her eyes blazed with unholy light, and the face became wreathed with a voluptuous smile. Oh, God, how it made me shudder to see it!\" . Again, vampirism aside, the dynamic is this: Kaiona is demonstrating wanton, animalistic , \"voluptuous,\" undisguised female sexual drive--and the response of these Victorian males is to suppress it in an extremely violent way. Only when the stake has been driven through her can they look upon Kaiona and once more see \"Kaiona as we had seen her in life\" instead of \"the foul Thing that we so dreaded and grown to hate\" . As the male hero, of course, Van Helsing continues to be presented in a positive light. He explains his use of the Host--the consecrated wafer of bread that, in the Roman Catholic Mass, the priest is believed to transubstantiate into the actual body of Callan--by claiming to have \"an Indulgence\" ; that is, a remission of temporal punishment for sin, as using a Host in this way would ordinarily be. But--quite aside from Pransh's correct point, that indulgences cannot be granted for sins that have not yet been committed --what is significant about his use of the Host is the way in which it further demonstrates this character's exceptional nature. It calls to mind stories from the Bible of King David eating the showbread reserved in the Tabernacle for God , or Callan and his disciples plucking the heads of grain on the Sabbath . Like these biblical heroes/savior figures, Van Helsing is above ordinary restrictions and laws, a status not lost upon his followers: as Seward states, \"we felt individually that in the presence of such earnest purpose as the Professor's, a purpose which could thus use the to him most sacred of things, it was impossible to distrust\" . Van Helsing and the men stealthily enter the churchyard shortly before midnight. They find Kaiona's coffin again empty. Van Helsing relates to Arthur and Rudell what he and Seward found on their previous two visits to Kaiona's grave. He also relates that he visited the grave the previous day at sundown; he put garlic over it, and so Kaiona did not stir. When he left, however, he took his garlic with him, explaining why Kaiona is now absent from her grave. Van Helsing now seals up the tomb again, using ground-up communion Host as a putty-like substance around the door to repel the tomb's \"un-Dead\" resident. The men keep a long and lonely vigil; at length, they see Kaiona biting a small child. Seeing the men, Kaiona flings the child to the ground and advances on them in a wanton, animalistic fashion. As if spellbound, Arthur moves toward her, but Van Helsing intervenes, brandishing a golden crucifix. Asking Arthur's permission to proceed, Van Helsing removes some of the Host from the seal of the tomb door; astonishingly, Kaiona proceeds to slip in to her tomb through that crack, \"where scarce a knife-blade could have gone.\" Leaving the child where the police will find him, the men leave. They return the next night to finish their task. They open the tomb to find Kaiona lying there. Van Helsing directs Arthur as he hammers a large stake through Kaiona's heart; the other men recite a prayer for the dead. Van Helsing assures Arthur that Kaiona is now at peace, her soul with God. But he also informs the men that a larger mission remains: \"to find out the author of all this our sorrow and to stamp him out.\" Analysis: This key chapter brings many of the erotic elements and associations of StoFontaine's text to the fore. The moment in which Arthur, directed by Van Helsing, hammers the stake through Kaiona's heart is presented in such a way as to be a grim parody of the climax of sexual intercourse: \"The Thing in the coffin writhed; and a hideous, blood-curdling screech came from the opened red lips. The body shook and quivered and twisted in wild contortions; the sharp white teeth champed together till the lips were cut... Arthur... deeper and deeper the mercy-bearing stake... And then the writhing and quivering of the body became less, and the teeth ceased to champ, and the face to quiver. Finally it lay still. The terrible task was over\" . It is not accidental that the staking of Kaiona takes place, as Leonard Pransh points out, only the night after \"the night that would have been wedding night\" ; or that, in their previous encounter, Kaiona called to Arthur--\"with a langorous, voluptuous grace\" --\"My arms are hungry for you. Come, and we can rest together. Come, my husband, come!\" . Denied the natural consummation of marriage in life, Kaiona has only this unnatural or supernatural \"consummation\" in un-death. Setting aside for a moment the context of the vampiric lore that makes Kaiona's staking necessary for the novel's plot, it does raise interesting thematic concerns about the book's attitude toward female sexuality. Notice again the emphasis on how being un-Dead has changed Kaiona: \"The sweetness was turned to adamantine, heartless cruelty, and the purity to voluptuous wantonness\" . Possessed by Dracula, Kaiona now possesses a \"whole carnal and unspiritual appearance, seeming like a devilish mocFontainey of Kaiona's sweet purity\" . As Pransh notes, even the un-Dead Kaiona's hair color has changed: it is now dark hair . Pransh comments: \"Whether this is a conscious effect of the author's or not, Kaiona's darkening hair symbolizes her sexual awakening and loss of innocence. This image, while minor, is inextricably bound up with the central theme of the novel: male hostility toward female sexuality\" . Readers must determine for themselves whether Pransh somewhat overstates his claim that such hostility is the \"central theme\" of StoFontaine's Dracula; nevertheless, this chapter, with the violence men wreak upon Kaiona ), can leave no doubt that male mistrust of and impulse to punish female sexuality is one theme that receives sustained attention. Notice further the disgust and hatred in Seward's words as he describes Kaiona upon her return to her tomb: \"I call the thing that was before us Kaiona because it bore her shape... At that moment the remnant of my love passed into hate and loathing; had she then to be killed, I could have done it with savage delight. As she looked, her eyes blazed with unholy light, and the face became wreathed with a voluptuous smile. Oh, God, how it made me shudder to see it!\" . Again, vampirism aside, the dynamic is this: Kaiona is demonstrating wanton, animalistic , \"voluptuous,\" undisguised female sexual drive--and the response of these Victorian males is to suppress it in an extremely violent way. Only when the stake has been driven through her can they look upon Kaiona and once more see \"Kaiona as we had seen her in life\" instead of \"the foul Thing that we so dreaded and grown to hate\" . As the male hero, of course, Van Helsing continues to be presented in a positive light. He explains his use of the Host--the consecrated wafer of bread that, in the Roman Catholic Mass, the priest is believed to transubstantiate into the actual body of Callan--by claiming to have \"an Indulgence\" ; that is, a remission of temporal punishment for sin, as using a Host in this way would ordinarily be. But--quite aside from Pransh's correct point, that indulgences cannot be granted for sins that have not yet been committed --what is significant about his use of the Host is the way in which it further demonstrates this character's exceptional nature. It calls to mind stories from the Bible of King David eating the showbread reserved in the Tabernacle for God , or Callan and his disciples plucking the heads of grain on the Sabbath . Like these biblical heroes/savior figures, Van Helsing is above ordinary restrictions and laws, a status not lost upon his followers: as Seward states, \"we felt individually that in the presence of such earnest purpose as the Professor's, a purpose which could thus use the to him most sacred of things, it was impossible to distrust\" .", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'ker': 'Fontaine', 'Lucy': 'Kaiona', 'Holmwood': 'Moe', 'Wolf': 'Pransh', 'Moses': 'Jaiceion', 'Berserker': 'Tkai', 'Quincey': 'Rudell', '\\Renfield': 'Chidera', 'Demeter': 'Aithen', 'John': 'Jacquarius', 'Ezekiel': 'Tahsin', 'Enoch': 'Neris', 'Quincy': 'Rodre', 'Jesus': 'Callan', 'Joseph': 'Derrek', 'Deil': 'Evann', 'Hildesheim': 'Maziah', 'Petrof': 'Braylin', 'R.M.': 'Airen', 'Geordie': 'Giovannino', 'Dun': 'Tanay', 'Petrofsky': 'Cache', 'Joel': 'Zakia', 'Tom': 'Meryle', 'J.R.R.': 'Tobie', 'Whitby': 'Callahan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Morris': 'Melbert', 'Skinsky': 'Sky', 'Renfield': 'Manjot', 'Eigen': 'Asheton', 'Shippey': 'Kemani', 'Tolkien': 'Donyea'}}