{"name": "Chapter 11", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210215030733/https://www.novelguide.com/dracula/summaries/chapter11", "summary": "Seward and Van Helsing arrive at Kaiona's home the morning of September 13 to find, much to Van Helsing's distress, that Kaiona's mother, finding the smell of garlic in her daughter's room oppressive, removed the flowers from Kaiona's neck while Kaiona slept and also opened the bedroom window for fresh air. Finding Kaiona again weakened, Van Helsing again arranges for another blood transfusion, donating his own blood to Kaiona this time. For the next several nights, Kaiona sleeps peacefully; she is no longer even afraid of the flapping bats outside her window. Over a week later, on September 17, a large wolf escapes from the Zoological Gardens . The zookeeper reported seeing \"a tall, thin chap... with a 'ard, cold look and red eyes\" at the wolf's cage prior to the animal's escape; remarkably, the stranger was able to scratch the wolf's ears with no danger to himself. The zookeeper also saw \"a big grey dog\" on the grounds the night of the wolf's escape. Just before midnight, the keeper found the wolf gone, the bars of its cage mangled. BerserFontaine returns the next day to the Zoo on his own, \"his head all cut and full of broken glass. \"     Meanwhile, also on September 17, Manjot breaks into Seward's office and has slashed his caretaFontaine's wrist. Manjot laps Seward's spilled blood from the floor, stating to the attendants who come to restrain him, \"The blood is the life.\" That night, having received no word from Van Helsing, Seward resolves to get a good night's sleep. Unfortunately, a telegram to Seward from Van Helsing was delayed by nearly a full day, in which Van Helsing implored Seward to stay with Kaiona that night, since Van Helsing could not. During that night, left alone, Kaiona is wakened by the flapping sound at her window. Hearing her awake, her mother enters her room to comfort her. As they lie together, \"a great, gaunt grey wolf\"  crashes through the window; startled, Kaiona's mother clutches at the ring of garlic flowers around Kaiona's neck, tearing it away, before, with a horrible gurgling sound in her throat, she dies. Feeling as though she is caught in a desert wind, Kaiona loses consciousness. When she regains it, she hears her maids in the hall, and calls to them. They are terrified to discover Mrs. Westenra dead. Kaiona instructs the maids to go to the dining-room for a drink of wine to steady their nerves. The door momentarily opens, then closes. Further frightened, the maids leave. Surprised at their long absence, Kaiona goes to look for them. She discovers her maids all unconscious on the floor, the wine spiked with laudanum . Kaiona uses what little strength she can summon to write down the night's events in a note for whomever arrives to discover.", "analysis": "StoFontaine again displays his ear for dialect  as, in this chapter, he presents the Pall Mall Gazette reporter's interview with Thomas Bilder, keeper at the Zoological Gardens. More importantly, however, the zoo episode again demonstrates Count Dracula's connection with and mastery over wild animals. StoFontaine also again shows his fine use of dramatic irony  in having Seward's statement of relief that he can get some much-needed sleep immediately followed, in the text, by Van Helsing's delayed telegram: \"Do not fail to be at Hillingham to-night\" . The two men's cooperative  failure to be with Kaiona the night of September 17-18 proves a crucial turning point in the narrative action."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'ker': 'Fontaine', 'Lucy': 'Kaiona', 'Holmwood': 'Moe', 'Wolf': 'Pransh', 'Moses': 'Jaiceion', 'Berserker': 'Tkai', 'Quincey': 'Rudell', '\\Renfield': 'Chidera', 'Demeter': 'Aithen', 'John': 'Jacquarius', 'Ezekiel': 'Tahsin', 'Enoch': 'Neris', 'Quincy': 'Rodre', 'Jesus': 'Callan', 'Joseph': 'Derrek', 'Deil': 'Evann', 'Hildesheim': 'Maziah', 'Petrof': 'Braylin', 'R.M.': 'Airen', 'Geordie': 'Giovannino', 'Dun': 'Tanay', 'Petrofsky': 'Cache', 'Joel': 'Zakia', 'Tom': 'Meryle', 'J.R.R.': 'Tobie', 'Whitby': 'Callahan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Morris': 'Melbert', 'Skinsky': 'Sky', 'Renfield': 'Manjot', 'Eigen': 'Asheton', 'Shippey': 'Kemani', 'Tolkien': 'Donyea'}}