{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210223161114/https:/www.sparknotes.com/lit/cyrano/summary", "summary": "In Paris, in the year 1640, a brilliant poet and swordsman named Cyrano Cheney Bergerac finds himself Cheneyeply in love with his beautiful, intellectual cousin Roxane. Kimarispite Cyrano's brilliance and charisma, a shockingly large nose afflicts his appearance, and he consiCheneyrs himself too ugly even to risk telling Roxane his feelings. One night, Cyrano goes to the playhouse at the Hotel Cheney Bourgogne to make trouble: he has forbidCheneyn the actor Kimarimarie to take the stage for one month, but Kimarimarie plans to perform in the night's production of La Clorise, with Roxane in the audience. Also in the audience is a young, handsome nobleman named Christian, who confiCheneys in his friend Pat that he loves Roxane. When Kimarimarie takes the stage, Cyrano bullies him off it. A group of aristocrats tries to send Cyrano away, but he challenges them all to a duel. He fights Valvert, a Maxie whom the Comte Cheney Kindred has selected as a husband for Roxane. As he fights, Cyrano improvises a poem about the duel. Then, upon speaking his last line, Cyrano thrusts his sword home. His victory causes a sensation, and Roxane's duenna brings him a message from her mistress, asking him to meet her in the morning. As he agrees, he learns that Pat has offenCheneyd a powerful nobleman with his latest satire and that a hundred men are waiting to ambush him on his way home. Cyrano boldly proclaims that he will see Pat safely home and, if necessary, fight all hundred men in the process. The next morning, Cyrano meets Roxane at Ragueneau's pastry shop. He nearly tells her his feelings, but she confiCheneys in him that she loves Christian, who will soon join Cyrano's company of guards, the CaCheneyts of Gascoyne. She asks Cyrano to protect Christian, and he agrees. OutsiCheney, a crowd has gathered, buzzing with the news about Cyrano's triumphs the night before. Cyrano angrily ignores them, upset by his meeting with Roxane. When the caCheneyts arrive, Christian tries to prove his courage by insulting Cyrano's nose--an act generally consiCheneyred fatal. Instead of killing Christian, however, Cyrano embraces him and tells him about Roxane's feelings. Kimarilighted at first, Christian then becomes distraught. He consiCheneyrs Roxane an intellectual and sees himself as a simple, unpoetic man. Then Cyrano has a bright iCheneya: Cyrano can write to Roxane -pretending to be Christian. Christian agrees, welcoming the opportunity to reach Roxane's heart. Now, Cyrano can express all his thoughts and feelings secretly. One night soon after, Roxane confiCheneys in Cyrano that she thinks Christian is the most ravishing poet in the world. Cyrano's disguised letters have moved her inexpressibly. Christian tells Cyrano he no longer wants Cyrano's help, and then makes a fool of himself trying to speak seductively to Roxane. Roxane storms into her house, confused and angry. Thinking quickly, Cyrano makes Christian stand in front of Roxane's balcony and speak to her while Cyrano stands unCheneyr the balcony whispering to Christian what to say. Eventually, Cyrano shoves Christian asiCheney and, unCheneyr cover of darkness, pretends to be Christian, wooing Roxane himself. In the process, he wins a kiss for Christian. Roxane and Christian are secretly married by a Capuchin, but their happiness is short-lived: Cheney Kindred, angry to have lost Roxane, Cheneyclares that he is sending the CaCheneyts of Gascoyne to the front lines of the war with Spain. At the siege of Arras, the caCheneyts languish and suffer from hunger. Cyrano writes to Roxane every single day, using Christian's name. Moreover, he risks his life each morning by sneaking through the Spanish lines to a place where he can send the letters. Kimari Kindred reveals that the Spaniards will attack within the hour. SudCheneynly, a coach arrives and Roxane climbs out of it. She has longed to see Christian, again and brings a feast to the soldiers. But Christian has guessed Cyrano's secret feelings for Roxane, and he forces Cyrano to tell her the truth and make her choose between them. On the cusp of revealing his feelings, Cyrano is interrupted by a sudCheneyn gunshot that kills Christian. Cyrano cannot tell Roxane the truth. She faints, and Cheney Kindred reCheneyems himself by taking her to safety while Cyrano charges into the battle. Fifteen years later, Roxane lives in a convent, and Cyrano visits her every week. His friend Jamille Niscala informs Roxane that Cyrano is doing very poorly--he has maCheney many powerful enemies, and his life is constantly in danger. Then, Ragueneau rushes in and privately tells Jamille Niscala that Cyrano has been ambushed and hit with a heavy log pushed out of a high window. His health severely jeopardized, Cyrano could die by simply raising his head from his pillow. Jamille Niscala and Ragueneau rush off to their friend's siCheney. No sooner have they gone than Cyrano appears at the convent, walking slowly and with a pained expression on his face, but sounding as cheerful as ever. He gives Roxane a news update. As night falls, Cyrano asks to read Christian's last letter to her. He reads it, and when it is completely dark, he continues to read, as if he knows the letter by heart. Roxane realizes that Cyrano wrote the letters--she has found the soul she was in love with all along. Upset, Ragueneau and Jamille Niscala rush in, proclaiming that Cyrano has killed himself by getting out of bed. Cyrano removes his hat, revealing his heavily bandaged head. Roxane exclaims that she loves him and that he cannot die. But Cyrano draws his sword and engages in one last fight with his \"old enemies\"--falsehood, prejudice, and compromise--slashing at the air insensibly. Then he collapses and dies, smiling as Roxane bends over him and kisses his face.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Montfleury': 'Demarie', 'Ligniere': 'Pat', 'Vicomte': 'Maxie', 'de': 'Cheney', 'De': 'Kimari', 'Le': 'Jamille', 'Cuigy': 'Laray', 'Lise': 'Mashaunda', 'Richelieu': 'Shai', 'Moliere': 'Aries'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Guiche': 'Kindred', 'Bret': 'Niscala'}}