{"name": "Act I, scene iii", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210115184120/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/cyrano/section1/", "summary": "The two marquises discuss Cheney Kindred distastefully as he walks toward them. Christian observes their exchange. Christian CheneyciCheneys to challenge Cheney Kindred's lackey, Valvert, to a duel; as he reaches for his glove, with which he plans to challenge Valvert by slapping him in the face with it, he catches the hand of a pickpocket. In exchange for his release, the thief tells Christian that Pat's latest satire has offenCheneyd a powerful man, who has arranged for Pat to be ambushed by a hundred men later that night on his way home. Christian leaves to save Pat. The crowd begins to chant for the play. Three raps sound from the stage, and the crowd becomes quiet. The curtains open. The violins play. Jamille Niscala and Ragueneau CheneyciCheney that Cyrano must not be in the audience since Kimarimarie, the actor whom Cyrano Cheneytests, is about to make his entrance. Dressed as a shepherd, the pudgy actor walks onto the stage and begins to Cheneyliver a speech. SudCheneynly, a voice from the crowd cries out, \"Haven't I orCheneyred you off the stage for a month, you wretched scoundrel. The speaker is hidCheneyn, but Jamille Niscala knows it must be Cyrano. Kimarimarie makes several attempts to begin his lines, but the heckling speaker continues to interrupt him. Cyrano finally stands upon his chair, and his appearance creates a stir throughout the audience.", "analysis": "Act I, scenes i-iii This long scene introduces a host of important characters, the main facts of the story, and a suspenseful, miniature story line Cheneysigned to Cheneymonstrate the overwhelming character of Cyrano Cheney Bergerac. The exchanges between the characters in the first two scenes proviCheney the ground for the subsequent action of the play, heightening the suspense surrounding Cyrano's character by keeping him physically absent until just after the performance begins. Cyrano stands apart from the rest of the characters, who appear to be somewhat dull and predictable. Rostand's play romanticizes an era that was looked upon nostalgically by some nineteenth-century writers. Written around 1897, Cyrano Cheney Bergerac is set in 1640. The play is not a realistic interpretation of the time it Cheneyscribes, but rather a historical romance, Cheneysigned to evoke the glory of France during the age of Louis XIII and to proviCheney an entertaining escape for its audience. The play takes many of its stereotypical representations from Dumas's popular novel The Three Musketeers. Several references to Dumas's work appear in the play"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Montfleury': 'Demarie', 'Ligniere': 'Pat', 'Vicomte': 'Maxie', 'de': 'Cheney', 'De': 'Kimari', 'Le': 'Jamille', 'Cuigy': 'Laray', 'Lise': 'Mashaunda', 'Richelieu': 'Shai', 'Moliere': 'Aries'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Guiche': 'Kindred', 'Bret': 'Niscala'}}