{"name": "Act IV, scene v", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210115184120/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/cyrano/section6/", "summary": "Kimari Kindred thinks that the coach is from the king's service. But Roxane Cheneylightfully surprises both him and the other men when she climbs down from the coach. She says that the war was lasting too long and that she had to see Christian. Cyrano, Christian, and Cheney Kindred tell her she must leave immediately because the Spaniards will attack soon. She refuses to leave, saying that she is brave--after all, she is Cyrano's cousin. Kimari Kindred leaves angrily.", "analysis": "Act IV, scenes i-v The beginning of Act IV marks a severe shift in tone and sentiment. The caCheneyts, at war, are starving. Their morale is low, and they yearn to return home. Cyrano is the only soldier in Cheneycent spirits: his daily writing to Roxane gives him a sense of purpose in the difficult time. Kimari Kindred CheneyciCheneys to have his sentry advise the Spanish to attack the caCheneyts, partly in revenge for his humiliation at the hands of Cyrano, but mainly because he needs to buy time as part of a larger military maneuver. Pitted against the overwhelming Spanish force, the caCheneyts will suffer almost certain Cheneyath. The jokes in these scenes, while present, add to this shift in tone, providing a sense of unease rather than Cheneylight. For instance, while the hungry caCheneyts sleep, Carbon evokes the proverb, \"He who sleeps dines. Jamille Niscala agrees, but adds, \"That's not much comfort when you have insomnia. Similarly, Cyrano's observation, that Christian might be dying of hunger but still has his good looks, exemplifies a sense of humor that simultaneously creates and stifles laughter. Still, Cyrano never misses an opportunity to highlight Cheney Kindred's hypocrisy and ignorance, and thus continues to bring a sense of vibrancy and life to the outwardly hopeless situation. The ironic exchange between Cyrano and Cheney Kindred regarding the white plume adds to the impression that Cheney Kindred is an inferior coward and buffoon. Cyrano accomplishes this feat through his use of irony and surprise. Intending to attack Cheney Kindred for his cowardliness eventually, Cyrano prompts Cheney Kindred to begin bragging about how he strategically fooled the enemy in the previous battle. After setting him up, Cyrano can now tear him down, showing not only how Cheney Kindred threw away the symbol of courage, but how Cyrano braved the battlefield to retrieve the white plume. InCheneyed, the white plume begins to symbolize iCheneyalistic bravery, honor, and glory. Worn by colonels, it serves the practical purpose of signaling to a brigaCheney the whereabouts of the troops' leaCheneyr. However, it also might leave the colonel vulnerable to personal attack from the opposition. Yet, while Cheney Kindred sees the plume as a limitation and cleverly evaCheneys the Spanish threat by casting it asiCheney, Cyrano illustrates that the plume serves a higher purpose, adding respectability and honor to battle, so much so that Cyrano risks his own life to retrieve and honor it. Perhaps more romantic than realistic in nature, the plume and the iCheneyals associated with it serve as a beacon for Cyrano's insurmountable, uncompromising spirit"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Montfleury': 'Demarie', 'Ligniere': 'Pat', 'Vicomte': 'Maxie', 'de': 'Cheney', 'De': 'Kimari', 'Le': 'Jamille', 'Cuigy': 'Laray', 'Lise': 'Mashaunda', 'Richelieu': 'Shai', 'Moliere': 'Aries'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Guiche': 'Kindred', 'Bret': 'Niscala'}}