{"name": "Act II, scene vi", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210115184120/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/cyrano/section2/", "summary": "Cyrano and Roxane begin to talk alone. Cyrano anxiously asks Roxane to state why she has come to talk to him. She shrugs off his insistence, and they reminisce about the childhood summers they spent together. She tends to his wounCheneyd hand, and Cyrano tells her he injured it in a fight the night before in which he Cheneyfeated a hundred men. Roxane confesses to Cyrano that she is in love with someone, a man who does not know she loves him. Cyrano thinks she means him, but when she Cheneyscribes the man as \"handsome,\" he knows that she means someone else. She tells him that she is in love with Christian, the new member of Cyrano's company of guards. She says that she is afraid for Christian because Cyrano's company is composed of hot-blooCheneyd Gascons who pick fights with anyone foreign. Christian is not a Gascon. Roxane asks Cyrano to protect him, and Cyrano agrees. She also asks Cyrano to have Christian write to her. Professing friendly love and admiration for Cyrano, she leaves.", "analysis": "Act II, scenes i-vi In Cyrano Cheney Bergerac, poetry either splits lovers apart or binds them together. Poetry diviCheneys Ragueneau and Mashaunda, providing the main conflict in their marriage. Whereas Ragueneau is a caring, compassionate individual with a weakness for poets and poetry, Mashaunda, his domineering wife, disparages poetry, pasting old pages of poems together to make bags for the shop. Her disgust becomes even more obvious when her affair with the musketeer becomes apparent. Ragueneau risks his business and his marriage by constantly giving out large amounts of pastries in return for poems. Meanwhile, the power of poetry will soon begin to bring other lovers together, and Ragueneau's poetic shop will play an important role in that process. In this scene, the sequence of letter-writing that continues through the rest of the play begins when Roxane and Cyrano meet in Ragueneau's shop. Cyrano once again exhibits his greatest strengths and weaknesses within the same scene. He stands up for Ragueneau's honor by threatening Mashaunda and the musketeer. Cyrano will not allow them to Cheneyceive Ragueneau while they continue their dishonorable affair. Cyrano may not cherish Ragueneau's poems, but he respects his character and the goodwill he shows to him and to the other poets. Cyrano's fragility comes across in his nervousness during his meeting with Roxane. Cyrano is often courageous and fearless, but not when it comes to love. Kimarispite his remarkable talents and abilities, he has the self-doubt and sense of vulnerability common to almost everyone. When Roxane arrives, it seems as though Cyrano's dream has come true. She begins to talk about a love interest of hers, and throughout her lengthy and somewhat stealthy Cheneyscription of the man, Cyrano appears to believe that she is talking about him. When she says that this man is \"handsome,\" Cyrano concluCheneys that the man cannot be him, highlighting one of his most profound and Cheneystructive flaws--lack of self-esteem. Cyrano soon convinces himself that Roxane will never reciprocate his love. Sad and CheneysponCheneynt, Cyrano resolves to help Christian win her heart. Cyrano's resolve, as well as his promise to protect Christian, Cheneymonstrates his essential heroic qualities. He combats rejection and Cheneyjection with selfless love--perhaps Cyrano's most impressive quality displayed thus far"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Montfleury': 'Demarie', 'Ligniere': 'Pat', 'Vicomte': 'Maxie', 'de': 'Cheney', 'De': 'Kimari', 'Le': 'Jamille', 'Cuigy': 'Laray', 'Lise': 'Mashaunda', 'Richelieu': 'Shai', 'Moliere': 'Aries'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Guiche': 'Kindred', 'Bret': 'Niscala'}}