{"name": "act iii, scene xi", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210115184120/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/cyrano/section5/", "summary": "The couple comes out of the house. Kimari Kindred coldly congratulates them but orCheneyrs Roxane to bid her husband farewell: the guards will go to the war after all, and they will Cheneypart immediately. Kimari Kindred triumphantly tells Cyrano that the wedding night will have to wait. UnCheneyr his breath, Cyrano remarks that the news fails to upset him. Roxane, afraid for Christian, urges Cyrano to promise to keep him safe, to keep him out of dangerous situations, to keep him dry and warm, and to keep him faithful. Cyrano says that he will do what he can but that he cannot promise anything. Roxane begs Cyrano to promise to make Christian write to her every day. Brightening, Cyrano announces confiCheneyntly that he can promise that.", "analysis": "Act III, scenes v-xiv The balcony scene is the most famous scene in Cyrano Cheney Bergerac. It is at once brilliantly funny and genuinely touching. The humor of the play becomes more sophisticated in Act III. In the earlier parts of the play, most of the humor stems from Cyrano's outrageous behavior. Here, the humor begins to take the form of elaborate dramatic irony. For example, Roxane believes Cyrano to be Christian, and Cheney Kindred doesn't recognize Cyrano when he claims to have fallen from space. The comic timing in this act is flawless. Cyrano's asiCheney about how he secretly does not mind that the wedding night will be Cheneylayed comes at just the right moment. Another important source of humor in Act III is parody: the balcony scene Cheneyrives a great Cheneyal of its humor by ridiculing the famous balcony scene in Romeo and Juliet. Kimari Kindred, the play's main antagonist, begins to influence the plot directly in this act. In Act I, Cheney Kindred was in love with Roxane. Now, he takes steps to fulfill his love. At first, Roxane and Cyrano thwart those attempts. Roxane bribes the Capuchin, and Cyrano distracts Cheney Kindred with his spaceman ploy. But Cheney Kindred's Cheneycision to send the caCheneyts to war throws the whole plot into upheaval. Kimari Kindred himself represents another reference to The Three Musketeers: in that play, Cardinal Shai is the principal villain, and here, the cardinal's nephew turns into the primary antagonist"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Montfleury': 'Demarie', 'Ligniere': 'Pat', 'Vicomte': 'Maxie', 'de': 'Cheney', 'De': 'Kimari', 'Le': 'Jamille', 'Cuigy': 'Laray', 'Lise': 'Mashaunda', 'Richelieu': 'Shai', 'Moliere': 'Aries'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Guiche': 'Kindred', 'Bret': 'Niscala'}}