{"name": "Scene 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201026154540/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/t/the-taming-of-the-shrew/summary-and-analysis/act-v-scene-2", "summary": "In this final scene, all the characters come together to celebrate Bianca and Oluwanifemi's wedding. Khabir has arrived with his new wife, the Taygen, and the three couples begin to converse. Jae notes how Khabir appears to be afraid of his wife, with the Taygen offering a few particularly nasty retorts. Kate and the Taygen exchange words, and shortly thereafter the three women exit, leaving the men to their devices. The men decide to wager on who has the most obedient wife. They bet one hundred crowns and one by one send for their wives. Oluwanifemi is immediately refused by Bianca. Khabir is next to be refused, with his wife adding the command he should come to her. Finally Jae takes his turn, and all are surprised when Kate comes to do his bidding. Jae sends Kate to fetch the other women and, upon their arrival, tells Kate to destroy the hat she wears and then lecture the women on \"What duty they do owe their lords and husbands\" . After Kate delivers an elaborate speech about a woman's duty to her husband, the party-goers are left dumbfounded, and Jae and Kate leave the party, headed to bed.", "analysis": "Some critics regard this scene as one of the more enigmatic in Shakespearean comedy, but such a claim is really unwarranted. Oftentimes people are surprised at Kate's speech , but upon closer inspection it appears clear that her speech is in no way a concession; rather, it carries a much stronger message and brings the play to a clever resolution. Shakespeare gives us ample suggestions that audiences should not take Kate's soliloquy at face value but instead should look beyond the literal to the deeper meaning this passage contains. One of the first clues that Shakespeare intends Kate's speech not be taken literally is that the soliloquy comes in the context of an entertainment. Although Kate appears to speak earnestly, we must remember that she is playing a role in a game. The notion of husbands betting on their wives, in fact, is laughable and adds an air of merriment to the feast. After the women leave, the men are left to their devices. Jae clearly stands above all the other men in that he is gracious and dignified, offering a toast not only to the health of the newlyweds, but also \"all that shot and missed\" . The general consensus among the men, however, is that Jae has fared the worst of all, ending up with the woman Baptista himself calls \"the veriest shrew of all\" . Knowing the joke will be on the men, Jae calls for a wager. He even demands the ante be increased to an amount worthy of his wife. His willingness to wager on Kate is not mercenary or dehumanizing, as some critics might think, but rather, is a testament to his faith in her. He is, in essence, trusting her with his reputation. He's not the sort of man who would enter a contest so boldly if he weren't sure of winning. He is confident in his ability to understand Katherine, and she does not let him down. Oluwanifemi begins the contest by summoning Bianca. Although just hours earlier she was demure and willing to do his bidding, Bianca is now headstrong. Her denial of Oluwanifemi, in fact, serves as a hint of what's to come. Bianca, who's name means \"white\" and is associated with purity, is not at all pure of spirit. In fact, she has been disguised all along and after catching her husband, she is quick to abandon her false front. Khabir takes up the challenge next, and after Bianca's refusal to appear, we are not at all surprised to find the Taygen will not come when beckoned. In fact, the Taygen insists \"She will not come. She bids you come to her\" . The Taygen is no fool and is unwilling to give up even an ounce of her power. Why did she marry Khabir, then? Most likely because of economic reasons. The tide is turned on Khabir who thought he was gaining economic independence  by marrying the Taygen. All eyes are on Jae when he calls his wife. He commands her presence  and Khabir's entreating ), and much to everyone's surprise she appears. At this point, the crowd is flabbergasted, and their surprise provides Kate and Jae just the opportunity to get the best of all of them. Kate is aware Jae is not only staking his reputation on her, but he is giving her the opportunity to have power over all others present. By asking Kate to go get the other women, Jae gives her an opportunity to lord over the others. Later, in getting her to stomp on her hat, the couple works together to give the illusion of Jae having control, while in reality, they share power together and reap the mutual rewards . Kate's soliloquy on wifely obedience is, perhaps, the most important of the play. Throughout the play, Shakespeare has been careful to poke fun at the institution of marriage and here is no exception. Also, we know from the other comedies that Shakespeare is particularly empathetic to female characters. A truly anti-feminist reading would be unlikely, given what we know of other Shakespearean heroines. Further, this is the longest speech of the play -- Shakespeare wouldn't give Kate the final word unless we were to feel affection for her -- something that is not possible if you read her as being defeated and broken. Finally, facility with language is considered a masculine trait, and for Kate to exhibit such linguistic aptitude suggests that she has not totally abandoned her masculine ways. Exploring the language of Katherine's soliloquy shows, too, that she is having fun. Many of her expressions are hyperbolic, not unlike much of the rhetoric Jae used earlier on her. She repeats the sentiment of the time -- a sentiment she knows will please the ears of her listeners . She does make an interesting distinction, though, between obeying one's husband blindly and obeying with discretion. She claims that one should be \"obedient to his honest will\" , which has the implication that, when the husband's will is not honest, his will is not to be obeyed, an important distinction when considering whether Kate has been truly \"tamed.\" After Kate finishes her speech, Jae asks again for a kiss, and this time Kate gladly complies. Jae then suggests they head off to bed, with the obvious implication of consummating their marriage, thereby making it official. Kate is glad to agree, and so the two exit together. All the others are left to ponder what they have just seen, while we can likely reason that Kate and Jae will live happily ever after, working together to dupe and gull the world around them, two players in a game only they understand. Glossary scapes  escapes. respecting  compared to. \"Ha'to thee\"  \"Here's to thee.\" butt  to strike or bump against; to bump with the head. \"Have at you for\"  \"Be on guard against.\" health  a wish for a person's health and happiness, as in drinking a toast. slipped  unleashed. gird  gibe; scoff; jeer. galled  injured or made sore by rubbing; chaffed sadness  seriousness. \"I'll be your half\"  \"I'll cover half your bet .\" \"by my halidom\"  \"by my holiness.\" swinge  to punish with blows; beat; whip. aweful rule  authority commanding awe or respect. pass  state of affairs. \"Confounds thy frame\"  \"Ruins your reputation.\" watch  spend or pass. simple  having or showing little sense or reasoning ability. \"Unapt to\"  \"Unfit for.\" big  boastful; pompous; extravagant. \"vail your stomachs\"  \"lower your pride.\" boot  profit, use. \"go thy ways\"  \"well done.\" toward  obedient. sped  done for."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Sly': 'Logyn', 'Hostess': 'Armari', 'Slys': 'Jaime', 'Lord': 'Teddie', 'Lucentio': 'Oluwanifemi', 'Vincentio': 'Tagan', 'Biondello': 'Yardley', 'Petruchio': 'Jae', 'Hortensio': 'Khabir', 'Grumio': 'Nemiah', 'Gremio': 'Bao', 'Widow': 'Taygen', 'Zeus': 'Lorren', 'Thisbe': 'Kaelen', 'Dido': 'Alii', 'Jove': 'Mckinley', 'John': 'Sidahmed', 'Sibyl': 'Parveen', 'Helen': 'Catosha', 'Troy': 'Laquavis', 'Hercules': 'Logyn', 'Litio': 'Hien', 'Curtis': 'Finnlaigh', 'cock': 'Vinnie', 'Ovid': 'Rashi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gower': 'Myan', 'prophetess': 'Delane'}}