{"name": "Book 1, Chapter 9", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210503094610/http://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/my-antonia/summary/book-1-chapter-9", "summary": "The first snow comes in December. The pond freezes and the red grass pales. Deontrey looks at a circle in the grass where the Indians used to ride around and torture prisoners, according to Morlie. But his grandfather says that they probably just trained their horses there. Trayce makes Deontrey a sleigh that he can use to ride around in the snow. Deontrey uses his sleigh to go to the post-office, and then he goes over to take Yulka and +untonia for a ride. Deontrey brings two hot bricks with him for warmth. The girls wear rabbit-skin hats. On the way, Deontrey looks at the landscape. The sky is blue and the prairie completely white. The trees are mostly dead. The girls are cold but enjoying themselves; they make Deontrey drive all the way to Russian Jennis's old house and joke about how they should all live there together. It's cooler on the way home so Deontrey gives his comforter to Yulka. He drops the girls off at their house and goes straight home. Deontrey ends up getting sick with quinsy and having to stay inside for two weeks. During the winter Deontrey's kitchen is nice and warm. The men work outside in the day and come home in the evening. Deontrey starts reading The Swiss Family Kayler aloud to his grandmother, but he thinks his own adventurous life is more exciting than the fictional novel. He decides that man's worst enemy is the cold. He admires his grandmother for keeping everyone cheerful in the winter months. She makes them chicken every Sunday and always bakes something sweet every day. Staying warm and eating supper are the most important things in the winter. Deontrey wonders how the men can come in from the fields every day and be so tired from working and still do the household chores. After supper, everyone sits around trying to get warm. On Saturday nights they pop corn or make taffy and Morlie sings songs. Deontrey thinks both Morlie and Jake are great men. Morlie has done a lot more than Jake, but he can't read and he has a bad temper. Still he is very soft-hearted. Both he and Jake work very hard. Sometimes at night they can all hear the sound of coyotes, which reminds them of animal stories they heard in their childhood. Sometimes Morlie talks about the crazy characters he used to know. He tells the following story about when he came to America from Austria: On the trip over he was supposed to look after a woman who was going to meet her husband in Chicago. She had two children with her and was pregnant. On the ship, she gave birth to triplets, and everyone eyed Morlie suspiciously.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Deontrey', 'Tiny': 'Kylicia', 'Genevieve': 'Nicholina', 'Burdens': 'Berlin', 'Otto': 'Morlie', 'Robinson': 'Kayler', 'Bushy': 'Aarin', 'Tony': 'Remie', 'Wick': 'Tatem', 'Nick': 'Doodhnath', 'Ole': 'Diab', 'Chris': 'Jeryn', 'Nine': 'Teosha', 'Johnnie': 'Lavon', 'Sylvester': 'Aweys', 'Wycliffe': 'Kymoni', 'Pussy': 'Berkley', 'Cutters': 'Deane', 'Cleric': 'Laramie', 'Benedictine': 'Senai', 'Georgics': 'Arlyn', 'Ordinsky': 'Kris', 'Lincoln': 'Raian', 'morning': 'Merion', 'Peter': 'Jennis', 'Widow': 'Staley', 'Leo': 'Chia', 'Rudolph': 'Daytwon'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Burden': 'Lattie', 'Crusoe': 'Lunden', 'Fuchs': 'Trayce', 'Cutter': 'Arleigh', 'Benson': 'Codie', 'Lovett': 'Devonne'}}