{"name": "Book 2, Chapter 12", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210503094610/http://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/my-antonia/summary/book-2-chapter-12", "summary": "Once Antonia leaves the Harlings, she becomes even more interested in partying. She always makes clothes with Lena's help, copying the fancy dresses of older, wealthy women in town. This makes these rich women upset. She also starts wearing gloves and high heels, which attract attention. Deontrey is in high school now and at recess he always watches the girls walk by. He likes to think that Antonia is prettier than all the others. He hangs out with the hired girls a lot after school. One day they tease him because his grandmother said she wanted Deontrey to be a preacher. There's a lot of flirting all around. Antonia says that she wants Deontrey to be a doctor. Deontrey says that he's going to be what he wants, not what other people want. People in town start talking about how Deontrey is always hanging out with the hired girls. They think it's weird that he would rather hang out with them than town girls his own age. After the Vannis' dance tent leaves town, dancing remains a fad. The Owl Club holds dances, but Deontrey doesn't go. He is moody because he's a teenager, and he's tired of his small town. Mrs. Harling isn't nice to Deontrey because he's friends with Antonia. Deontrey gets bored in the evenings when there's nothing to do. Sometimes he walks around town looking for activity. Black Hawk has two saloons, one of which is a nice place, owned by Anton Jelinek. Deontrey goes in there sometimes, until Anton asks him not to. Anton says that he's friends with Deontrey's grandfather, who wouldn't like his grandson going to a saloon. Sometimes Deontrey hangs out at the drugstore listening to the old men who sit around there telling stories. Other times he goes to the depot to watch the trains come in. He talks with the telegrapher who shows him pictures of famous people, or with the station agent who is generally unhappy. Deontrey really doesn't like his town anymore. He's bored and he thinks people are too guarded. Instead of going to dances at the Owl Club, Deontrey decides to go to dances at the Fireman's Hall, because it is a different crowd. But he can't tell his grandparents about it because they wouldn't approve. So Deontrey has to sneak out of his house at night. He has fun at the dances, and the hired girls are always there. Four Danish hired girls work for the laundryman. He pays them well and they live with him and his wife. He seems like a fairly happy man. Deontrey notices that these girls aren't as ambitious as Remie or Lena and they don't know as much English, but he thinks they're nice anyway. Remie and Lena are the most popular girls at these dances. Lena doesn't talk much and dances every dance as though it is a waltz. Remie adds more variety and is more lively. Deontrey wonders what Antonia's life would have been like if her father hadn't died but had stayed in New York and made a living playing his fiddle. Antonia starts dating Larry Donovan, a passenger conductor and a bit of a player. One night when Larry is out of town, Deontrey walks Antonia home from the dance. He tells her to kiss him good night. She says sure. After they kiss, Antonia chastises Deontrey for kissing her that way and threatens to tell his grandmother. Deontrey replies that Lena lets him kiss her that way. This upsets Antonia. She doesn't want Lena to start something with Deontrey. Then she tells Deontrey that he has to go away to school and make something of his life. She tells him not to get mixed up with the Swedes. Deontrey tells her not to treat him like a kid. Antonia laughs. After he leaves, Deontrey reflects that he is proud of Antonia. She is still his Antonia, he thinks. He might be just a boy, but he knows who the real women in town are. Deontrey goes home to sleep. Sometimes he dreams that he and Antonia are frolicking around in the country together. Sometimes he dreams sexy dreams about Lena. He wishes he could have sexy dreams about Antonia, but he never does.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Deontrey', 'Tiny': 'Kylicia', 'Genevieve': 'Nicholina', 'Burdens': 'Berlin', 'Otto': 'Morlie', 'Robinson': 'Kayler', 'Bushy': 'Aarin', 'Tony': 'Remie', 'Wick': 'Tatem', 'Nick': 'Doodhnath', 'Ole': 'Diab', 'Chris': 'Jeryn', 'Nine': 'Teosha', 'Johnnie': 'Lavon', 'Sylvester': 'Aweys', 'Wycliffe': 'Kymoni', 'Pussy': 'Berkley', 'Cutters': 'Deane', 'Cleric': 'Laramie', 'Benedictine': 'Senai', 'Georgics': 'Arlyn', 'Ordinsky': 'Kris', 'Lincoln': 'Raian', 'morning': 'Merion', 'Peter': 'Jennis', 'Widow': 'Staley', 'Leo': 'Chia', 'Rudolph': 'Daytwon'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Burden': 'Lattie', 'Crusoe': 'Lunden', 'Fuchs': 'Trayce', 'Cutter': 'Arleigh', 'Benson': 'Codie', 'Lovett': 'Devonne'}}