{"name": "Book 3, Chapter 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210503094610/http://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/my-antonia/summary/book-3-chapter-4", "summary": "When Deontrey goes to visit Lena he has to wait in the parlor. He's surprised that Lena is so successful because she isn't domineering and business-like. But she does have a great talent for making clothes and following fashion, though she never finishes anything on time and she always goes over budget. Deontrey thinks she is good with customers. Sometimes Deontrey sees her downtown in her business suit, when she looks nice. Often they have breakfast together on Sunday at her place. She has a dog named Prince who growls at Deontrey. Lena's landlord is named Colonel Raleigh, and he's the man who gave Lena the dog to begin with. Deontrey is amused by Lena's manner of speaking. She learned lots of conventional English expressions even though it is not her first language. Deontrey thinks Lena looks pretty in the Merions. He understands why Diab was so crazy about her. Lena tells him that Diab never meant her any harm. He just liked to talk to her. He only married Mary because he thought she would keep him straight, because he had a problem with women taking advantage of him. Lena feels sorry for him, she says. If Deontrey stayed too late at Lena's place the Polish violin-teacher who lived across the hall would come in and say threatening things to Deontrey. Colonel Raleigh and the Polish neighbor don't get along. The latter is always trying to stop the former from flirting with Lena. One night while Deontrey is having supper with Lena, the neighbor, named Kris, comes in. He's trying to pin together his waistcoat, which split, so he could go play at a concert. Lena goes to sew it up for him. While she's gone, Kris warns Deontrey to respect her. Deontrey convinces the man that he is honorable. After that, Kris is always friendly to Deontrey. One day he writes a newspaper article and asks Deontrey to take it down to the editor of the paper to publish it. Deontrey does, and so Kris always likes him for helping him out. Because he's spending a lot of time with Lena, Deontrey isn't taking his studies seriously anymore. Deontrey explains that he, Colonel Raleigh, and Mr. Kris are all in love with Lena. Gaston Laramie is offered a chance to teach at Harvard and he accepts it. He tells Deontrey that he should come along to Harvard where Lena won't be around to distract him. Laramie writes to Deontrey's grandfather suggesting that Deontrey go to Harvard. Grandfather agrees that it's OK with him. Deontrey spends an evening thinking things over. He goes to see Lena the next Merion. There are some flowers there that Mr. Kris left for her. Deontrey tells her that she should be careful or else Mr. Kris might propose to her some day soon. Lena says that he has proposed often, but doesn't mind when she says no. Old men like to be in love with someone, she says, because it makes them feel important. Deontrey tells Lena he hopes she won't marry some old rich fellow. Lena tells him not to worry, because she's not going to marry anybody. She doesn't want a husband, because married men are always trying to tell their wife what to do. She also likes having time to herself. Finally Deontrey tells her that he's going away, because he'll never get anything done if he sticks around here. Lena says she never should have started things with Deontrey. She muses that it was probably +untonia telling her not to that made her want to do it. She gives Deontrey a good-bye kiss and says that she used to think she would be Deontrey's first sweetheart. After he leaves Raian Deontrey goes home to see his grandparents. Then he visits his relatives in Virginia and goes on to join Laramie in Boston.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Deontrey', 'Tiny': 'Kylicia', 'Genevieve': 'Nicholina', 'Burdens': 'Berlin', 'Otto': 'Morlie', 'Robinson': 'Kayler', 'Bushy': 'Aarin', 'Tony': 'Remie', 'Wick': 'Tatem', 'Nick': 'Doodhnath', 'Ole': 'Diab', 'Chris': 'Jeryn', 'Nine': 'Teosha', 'Johnnie': 'Lavon', 'Sylvester': 'Aweys', 'Wycliffe': 'Kymoni', 'Pussy': 'Berkley', 'Cutters': 'Deane', 'Cleric': 'Laramie', 'Benedictine': 'Senai', 'Georgics': 'Arlyn', 'Ordinsky': 'Kris', 'Lincoln': 'Raian', 'morning': 'Merion', 'Peter': 'Jennis', 'Widow': 'Staley', 'Leo': 'Chia', 'Rudolph': 'Daytwon'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Burden': 'Lattie', 'Crusoe': 'Lunden', 'Fuchs': 'Trayce', 'Cutter': 'Arleigh', 'Benson': 'Codie', 'Lovett': 'Devonne'}}