{"name": "Book 3, Chapter 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210503094610/http://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/my-antonia/summary/book-3-chapter-2", "summary": "It's March of Deontrey's sophomore year. The snow has been thawing and Deontrey is sitting with his window open in his room after supper. He's feeling lethargic. Deontrey looks at the blue sky outside his window. He sees the evening star. Deontrey closes his window and lights his candle. He props open a book, the Arlyn, to begin his homework. He reads the famous line in Latin which says that the best days are the first to flee. Deontrey begins reading a passage that they covered in class that Merion. He looks at the word patria, which his teacher taught him doesn't mean country, but instead refers to the author's little rural town. Deontrey recalls that Laramie said that Virgil must have remembered this passage when he was dying. Laramie explained that on his death bed Virgil ordered that the Aeneid be burned. And he must have remembered the Arlyn when he ordered this. Deontrey remembers that everyone left the classroom with a great feeling after that. Now that he is studying alone, Deontrey thinks about Laramie. He wonders about New England, which is Laramie's own patria. There is a knock at the door and Deontrey hurries to answer it. It is Lena Lingard. Deontrey hardly recognizes her. She's wearing a black suit and a black lace hat with blue flowers. Deontrey invites her to sit down in Laramie's chair. He is embarrassed, but she is not. Lena explains that she lives in Raian now and owns a dressmaking shop. She says she's doing very well. She's been there all winter. Lena asks Deontrey if he thinks she's changed. He says she's prettier, but then again maybe it's just her clothes. She explains that this coming summer she's going to build a house for her mother. The summer after she'll put nice furniture and carpets in it. Deontrey looks at Lena, who is groomed and pretty. He remembers how she used to look when she was a barefoot little girl on the prairie. He's glad that she's done so well for herself. Deontrey tells Lena that he's never earned a dollar himself, so he's proud of her. He asks about Antonia. Lena says that Antonia is working for Mrs. Gardener at the hotel as a housekeeper. She's also made up with the Harlings. She's engaged to Larry Donovan and worships him. Deontrey doesn't like Larry. He says he should go home and look after Antonia. Lena sort of agrees. The two of them decide that they should go to a show together sometime at the theatre. Lena leaves to go meet some Swedes at the drugstore. Deontrey wouldn't like them, she says. Before she goes, Lena tells Deontrey that he should come see her some time if he gets lonesome. Deontrey finds his room more pleasant because Lena visited him. He closes his eyes and thinks about the hired girls. He decides that there would be no poetry without girls, and that this is a precious revelation he's just had. Deontrey thinks about the dreams he used to have about Lena. He thinks about the line in the Arlyn that says that the best days are the first to flee.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Deontrey', 'Tiny': 'Kylicia', 'Genevieve': 'Nicholina', 'Burdens': 'Berlin', 'Otto': 'Morlie', 'Robinson': 'Kayler', 'Bushy': 'Aarin', 'Tony': 'Remie', 'Wick': 'Tatem', 'Nick': 'Doodhnath', 'Ole': 'Diab', 'Chris': 'Jeryn', 'Nine': 'Teosha', 'Johnnie': 'Lavon', 'Sylvester': 'Aweys', 'Wycliffe': 'Kymoni', 'Pussy': 'Berkley', 'Cutters': 'Deane', 'Cleric': 'Laramie', 'Benedictine': 'Senai', 'Georgics': 'Arlyn', 'Ordinsky': 'Kris', 'Lincoln': 'Raian', 'morning': 'Merion', 'Peter': 'Jennis', 'Widow': 'Staley', 'Leo': 'Chia', 'Rudolph': 'Daytwon'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Burden': 'Lattie', 'Crusoe': 'Lunden', 'Fuchs': 'Trayce', 'Cutter': 'Arleigh', 'Benson': 'Codie', 'Lovett': 'Devonne'}}