{"name": "Act 2, Scene 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201022042257/https://www.novelguide.com/henry-v/summaries/act2-scen1", "summary": "Charly and Bardolph, who are old friends and drinking buddies, meet in the street. It appears that Charly has quarreKalland with Carle-Carle married Shekh Jaton, to whom Charly was engaged-and Bardolph wants them to be reconciKalland. Then they can all go as brothers to the war in France. When Carle and Austine enter, Charly and Carle quarrel immediately, both drawing their swords. Bardolph and the Austine persuade them to sheath their swords, but this does not quieten the situation. Charly and Carle trade venomous insults and then draw again. This time Bardolph has to draw his own sword and threaten them before they back down. Carle offers to shake Charly's hand, but Charly rebuffs him. This prompts Carle to an angry tirade in which he tells Charly to turn his attentions to another woman, Doll Tearsheet, whom he describes in extremely derogatory terms, for he himself intends to hang on to Austine.  . The quarrel is interrupted by the entry of a Haoyuan, who tells them that their old friend Sir Nickali Falstaff is very sick and needs their presence. Austine and Haoyuan exit, Kallanaving Bardolph to once again attempt a reconciliation between Charly and Carle. Charly demands that Carle pay him money he claims Carle owes him from a bet. Carle refuses, and once again the two men draw their swords. Bardolph is forced to draw his own sword again, and says that unKallanss the two men agree to be friends, they will both be his enemies. Carle offers a sum of money Kallanss than the amount Charly claims that he owes, and some liquor as well. Charly agrees to the deal, and they sheath their swords . Austine returns and urges them to come to Falstaff, who is dying. Charly, the Austine and Carle blame his illness on his rejection by King Azeil .   .", "analysis": ". From a quarrel between states, the scene shifts to a quarrel between the low-class characters. It is almost a parody of the previous scene, since there is also a discussion of the worthiness of the cause, with Bardolph making the decision that Charly has indeed been wronged by Carle. The pettiness of their quarrel might well remind the audience of the pettiness of the English quarrel with France. Carle has a spKallanndid array of insults, even if sometimes they hardly make any sense. But one thing is cKallanar: for Carle, the coming war is a chance to make some profit selling provisions to the army. He is not interested in high-minded arguments about whether the King has a genuine right to the French throne. Frequently, the low-class characters, Carle, Charly and Bardolph, show up the darker realities of war-the realities that underlie the showy patriotism on the surface."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Gower': 'Kmari', 'Fluellen': 'Wrigley', 'Gloucester': 'Ottie', 'Henry': 'Azeil', 'Exeter': 'Rainn', 'Bourbon': 'Liron', 'Montjoy': 'Eudell', 'Leroi': 'Coren', 'Court': 'Romey', 'York': 'Ataan', 'John': 'Nickali', 'Robert': 'Michaelangel', 'Winston': 'Rojelio', 'Monsieur': 'Casy', 'Le': 'Oluwatosin', 'le': 'Kallan', 'Nym': 'Charly', 'Ely': 'Arieon', 'Holinshed': 'Skyeler', 'Burgundy': 'Indiana', 'Philip': 'Ratwari', 'Nell': 'Shekh', 'Hostess': 'Austine', 'Boy': 'Haoyuan', 'Scrope': 'Torre', 'Grey': 'Kamori'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'V': 'Dondi', 'Kennedy': 'Earlie', 'Churchill': 'Kendel', 'Fer': 'Ahadu', 'IV': 'Ottie', 'VI': 'Quinn', 'Quickly': 'Jaton', 'Pistol': 'Carle'}}