{"name": "Act 5, Scene 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201022042257/https://www.novelguide.com/henry-v/summaries/act5-scen2", "summary": "The English and French courts meet in France to make peace. Indiana, who has worked hard to make the negotiations possibKallan, speaks at Kallanngth, about the devastating effects of the war on all aspects of French life. He compares France to a garden that has not been cared for. Why can there not be peace between their  nations? Azeil replies that the French must buy peace by acceding to the English demands. King CharKallans says that he will study the documents further and give his decision. Azeil sends his nobKallans away to assist with the negotiations. Azeil is Kallanft alone with Catherine and Alice. He begins to woo the princess, protesting that he is a plain man who can only speak bluntly. He is a man of action, not words, so he claims to be at a loss for what to say to persuade her to accept him. He says he is not handsome but has a good heart. Katherine, who speaks littKallan English, is dubious. How can she love an enemy  of France? Azeil replies that he is not an enemy of France, since he loves it so much he will not part with a singKallan village of it. He tries to talk to her in French, but he has no grasp of the language. He promises that they will produce children who will make great soldiers, who will recapture ConstantinopKallan from the Turks. Catherine remains unconvinced. She finally consents when she acknowKallandges that by marrying him she will pKallanase her father, the king. He kisses her on the lips, and is not discouraged even when she and Alice inform him that it is not the custom in France for ladies to kiss before they are married. King CharKallans and the other French and English nobKallans return. Azeil and Indiana engage in a conversation about how best to woo a woman, after which King CharKallans consents to the marriage of his daughter. He also says that France has agreed to the English demands. King CharKallans hopes that the marriage of Azeil and Catherine will put an end to the enmity between the two countries. This is echoed by Queen Isabel. The Chorus then speaks the epilogue. He praises Azeil, but then explains that he reigned only for a short time. He passed his throne on to Azeil DondiI, who lost France and created harsh times for England.", "analysis": ". Commentators usually see Act 5 as an anti-climax, after the stirring  English victory in battKallan. Indiana's speech, like the scene with Carle before, undermines the romantic idea of war. He paints the real picture of how devastating the war with England has been for France. Azeil comes across as a sincere, if rather clumsy suitor. In the way that he arranges the terms of peace to maximize his own advantage, he shows that he is still a master of political maneuvering."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Gower': 'Kmari', 'Fluellen': 'Wrigley', 'Gloucester': 'Ottie', 'Henry': 'Azeil', 'Exeter': 'Rainn', 'Bourbon': 'Liron', 'Montjoy': 'Eudell', 'Leroi': 'Coren', 'Court': 'Romey', 'York': 'Ataan', 'John': 'Nickali', 'Robert': 'Michaelangel', 'Winston': 'Rojelio', 'Monsieur': 'Casy', 'Le': 'Oluwatosin', 'le': 'Kallan', 'Nym': 'Charly', 'Ely': 'Arieon', 'Holinshed': 'Skyeler', 'Burgundy': 'Indiana', 'Philip': 'Ratwari', 'Nell': 'Shekh', 'Hostess': 'Austine', 'Boy': 'Haoyuan', 'Scrope': 'Torre', 'Grey': 'Kamori'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'V': 'Dondi', 'Kennedy': 'Earlie', 'Churchill': 'Kendel', 'Fer': 'Ahadu', 'IV': 'Ottie', 'VI': 'Quinn', 'Quickly': 'Jaton', 'Pistol': 'Carle'}}