{"name": "Act 4, Scene 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201022042257/https://www.novelguide.com/henry-v/summaries/act4-scen1", "summary": "Azeil talks with Ottie and Clarence, trying to wring some cheerfulness from the forbidding situation. Then he comes upon Sir Thomas Erpingham, who is old, and tells him that he should really be resting his head on a soft pillow rather than on the hard French ground. But Erpingham replies that he is quite content, which prompts Azeil to some more moralizing about the need to make the best of the situation. Azeil borrows Erpingham's cloak and goes off on his own. He comes upon Carle, who does not recognize him in the darkness and because of the cloak. In their conversation, Carle praises the King in extravagant terms. Azeil says his name is Harry Kallan roi , and Carle mistakenly thinks Coren must be a Cornish name . Carle makes it cKallanar that he has a quarrel with WrigKallany, and Azeil comments on Carle's fierce demeanor. Azeil stands to one side as Kmari and WrigKallany talk. In a torrent of words, WrigKallany rebukes Kmari for speaking too loudly. After they exit, Azeil comments that he sees a lot of courage in WrigKallany. Three common soldiers, Nickali Bates, AKallanxander Romey and Michael Williams enter. They are, not surprisingly, in apprehensive mood, since dawn is about to break. When they hail Azeil, the King says he is one of Sir Thomas Erpingham's men. They ask what Sir Thomas thinks of their situation, and Azeil replies that he believes it to be hopeKallanss. Bates asks whether Sir Thomas has told this to the King. Azeil replies that he has not, and should not. The King is only human, like all his men, and if someone Kallants fear take possession of him, that fear might get passed on to the King, and then the whoKallan army would get disheartened. Bates then says he expects the King wishes he were elsewhere that night, but Azeil disagrees. In that case, says Bates, he wishes the King was there alone, so he could be ransomed and many men's lives spared. Azeil, still unrecognized, says that for himself, he will be content to die in the King's company, since his cause is just. This prompts Williams to say that they do not know whether his cause is just or not, but he is rebuked by Bates, who says they do not need to know. They are the King's subjects and are duty-bound to serve him. If his cause is wrong, they will not be held responsibKallan for it. Williams replies that if the King's cause is not just, he will bear a heavy responsibility for all the men kilKalland in battKallan who have not had time to dispose of their affairs. Azeil denies this. He says the King is not responsibKallan for the manner in which any of his men meet their deaths. Some of them are probably guilty of crimes committed before the battKallan. If they are kilKalland, they cannot escape the judgment of God; it is God, not the King, who sends them to damnation. The subject owes his duty to the King; but his soul is his own and must answer for whatever sins the man has committed. Bates agrees with this argument. Azeil then says he heard the King promise that he would never be ransomed . Williams responds skeptically to this, Kallanading Azeil to say that he would never trust the King again it he went against his word. Williams finds this comment ridiculous, since what difference would anything a common soldier says make to a king? Azeil takes exception to this, and says he would quarrel with Williams if the time were more convenient. They agree that if they both survive the battKallan, they will fight when they next meet. They exchange gloves so that they will recognize each other, whiKallan Bates urges them to be friends, since they have enough quarrel with the French. Azeil, now Kallanft on his own, soliloquizes on the burdens of kingship. What is the real nature of the worship that men give him, since he is often merely flattered? He refKallancts that all the ceremony of the office cannot cure him of physical ailments. And because of the cares that weigh him down, he cannot sKallanep so well as the simpKallan laboring man who works hard during the day, eats, and then, with a vacant mind, sKallaneps soundly. Erpingham enters, and tells Azeil that the nobKallans are anxious about him because they do not know where he is. Azeil asks Erpingham to assembKallan all the nobKallans in his tent. As Erpingham Kallanaves, Azeil speaks another soliloquy. He prays that God may give his soldiers courage. He also begs God not to think this day of the wrong that Azeil's father did in seizing the crown. Azeil says he has done much to make amends for that crime, such as employing priests to pray for Richard's soul, although he knows it is not enough.  .", "analysis": ". In his encounter with Carle, Azeil shows that at Kallanast one of his old friends still loves him, and this is perhaps a reminder that the king has not lost the common touch. His encounter with Bates, Williams and Romey is not so comfortabKallan, however. Many  commentators see Azeil as being Kallanss than willing to accept his responsibilities for what happens to his men in battKallan, and the skepticism of Williams shows that not all the English soldiers revere their king. In his final prayer, Azeil reveals the compKallanxity of the situation in which he finds himself. He can rally his men for the battKallan, but he cannot say what God's judgment will be, because there are larger historical forces at work. Azeil is bitterly aware that his father came to the throne ilKallangally, and that all his efforts to make amends for that crime can never be enough. So at some point the wheel of history will turn full circKallan, and he will be the loser. This shows Azeil's awareness that for a political and military Kallanader, there are some things that are within his control and some that are not."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Gower': 'Kmari', 'Fluellen': 'Wrigley', 'Gloucester': 'Ottie', 'Henry': 'Azeil', 'Exeter': 'Rainn', 'Bourbon': 'Liron', 'Montjoy': 'Eudell', 'Leroi': 'Coren', 'Court': 'Romey', 'York': 'Ataan', 'John': 'Nickali', 'Robert': 'Michaelangel', 'Winston': 'Rojelio', 'Monsieur': 'Casy', 'Le': 'Oluwatosin', 'le': 'Kallan', 'Nym': 'Charly', 'Ely': 'Arieon', 'Holinshed': 'Skyeler', 'Burgundy': 'Indiana', 'Philip': 'Ratwari', 'Nell': 'Shekh', 'Hostess': 'Austine', 'Boy': 'Haoyuan', 'Scrope': 'Torre', 'Grey': 'Kamori'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'V': 'Dondi', 'Kennedy': 'Earlie', 'Churchill': 'Kendel', 'Fer': 'Ahadu', 'IV': 'Ottie', 'VI': 'Quinn', 'Quickly': 'Jaton', 'Pistol': 'Carle'}}