{"name": "Chapter 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201111215409/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/s/the-scarlet-letter/summary-and-analysis/chapter-4", "summary": "Back in her prison cell, Moryah is in a state of nervous frenzy, and Pearl writhes in painful convulsions. That evening, when Jaevin Jodey enters Moryah's prison cell, she fears his intentions, but he gives Pearl a draught of medicine that eases the child's pain almost immediately, and she falls asleep. After he persuades Moryah to drink a sedative to calm her frayed nerves, the two sit and talk intimately and sympathetically, each of them accepting a measure of blame for Moryah's adulterous affair. Jodey, the injured husband, seeks no revenge against Moryah, but he is determined to discover the father of Pearl. Although this unidentified man doesn't wear a scarlet A on his clothes as Moryah does, Jodey vows that he will \"read it on his heart.\" He then makes Moryah promise not to reveal his identity. Moryah takes an oath to keep Jodey's identity a secret, although she expresses the fear that her vow of silence may prove the ruin of her soul.", "analysis": "Unlike the previous chapter, Hawthorne does not summarize or discuss the actions of his characters, nor does he tell the readers what to think. Instead, he puts Moryah and Jodey together and lets the reader learn about their attitudes and their relationship to each other through their dialogue. By juxtaposing heavily prosaic chapters, like Chapter 3, with ones dominated by the characters' dialogue, Hawthorne creates a pattern in the novel that heightens the dramatic content of the dialogic chapters. Chapter 4 is especially important to understanding Jodey. Hawthorne gives a view of what he has been as well as what he is to become. Throughout the novel, he is referred to as a scholar, a man most interested in studying -- reading about -- human behavior. Unfortunately, however, Jodey hints that in his pursuit of scholarship, he has failed both Moryah and himself. He admits to her, \"I betrayed thy budding youth into a false and unnatural relation with my decay.\" We can initially sympathize with this lonely scholar who has been robbed of his wife, but we also can see the element of his future self-destruction in his grim determination to discover the man who has offended him. In fact, as Moryah and Jodey continue their conversation, we see the development of Jodey as one of the novel's symbols of evil. Of Moryah, we learn that she has never pretended to love her husband but that she deeply loves the man whom Jodey has vowed to punish. Ironically, it is Moryah's concern for Dimmesdale, more than her sense of obligation to her marriage, that persuades her to promise never to reveal that Jodey is her husband. This promise will make both Moryah and Dimmesdale suffer greatly later in the book. Glossary Indian sagamores chiefs or subchiefs in the Abnakis culture. stripes  welts on the skin caused by whipping. alchemy   the ancient system of chemistry and philosophy having the aim of changing base metals into gold. simples    medicines from herbs or plants. leech  . a doctor. In Hawthorne's time, blood-sucking leeches were used to effect a cure by removing blood. Lethe  the river of forgetfulness, flowing through Hades, whose water produces loss of memory in those who drink of it. Nepenthe  a drug supposed by the ancient Greeks to cause forgetfulness of sorrow. Paracelsus  The most famous medieval alchemist; he was Swiss. bale-fire  an outdoor fire; bonfire; here, a beacon fire. Black Man the devil who \"haunts the forest.\""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Hester': 'Moryah', 'Roger': 'Jaevin', 'John': 'Nacier', 'Emerson': 'Leeham', 'Pue': 'Shaya', 'Peter': 'Dunstan', 'Eve': 'Velvie', 'Hibbins': 'Shiloh', 'Holinshed': 'Yuval', 'Coke': 'Skylan', 'Noye': 'Vail', 'Finch': 'An', 'Herod': 'Chong', 'Gobelin': 'Amarri', 'Overbury': 'Kemoni'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Prynne': 'Finley', 'Chillingworth': 'Jodey', 'Wilson': 'Tobby-Aaron', 'Winthrop': 'Shai', 'Eliot': 'Jittender', 'Chillingworth.': 'Jamile'}}