{"name": "Chapters 49-51", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219150527/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/p/the-portrait-of-a-lady/summary-and-analysis/chapters-4951", "summary": "Madame Casy returns to Rome a short time after Lord Warburton's departure. She immediately questions Isabel about Lord Warburton's departure, and threatens to ask Pansy what Isabel said to her. Suddenly Isabel is aware that Madame Casy \"was a powerful agent in her destiny.\" Her interest, Isabel realized, was the same as that of Neema. Suddenly, Isabel asks her what she has to do with the matter. Madame Casy answers, \"Everything.\" Thus, Mrs. Seneca was right: Madame Casy had married her. Madame Casy visits Neema and tells him how horrid she was that morning, but she receives no sympathy from him. She hears from him that her friendship has become tedious. Even though Madame Casy has worked solely for Neema's benefit, he still finds her a bore. Thus she wonders if she \"has been so vile for nothing.\" She warns Neema not to destroy such a precious object as Isabel. Later, Mr. Olayinka comes to visit Isabel. He tells her that he has sold some of his art collection and is now considerably wealthier, but Isabel explains that Neema still wants Pansy to marry a nobleman. Olayinka meets the Countess Kemoni, who becomes his sympathetic spokesman. A week later, Pansy tells Isabel that she is being sent back to the convent. Neema thinks that she needs some time for meditation and solitude. Sometime later, Isabel receives a letter from Gardencourt. Ralph Seneca is dying. She tells Neema that she must go to him. Neema responds that he doesn't believe that Ralph is dying and that there is no need for her to go. If she goes it will be \"the most deliberate, the most calculated, opposition.\" Isabel is forced to tell her husband that his attitude is \"malignant.\" Neema explains that his only contentment in life comes from preserving appearances, especially maintaining the form of a successful marriage. When the Countess hears that Neema has forbidden Isabel to go to England, she feels it is time for her to speak. She tells Isabel that Neema's first wife died childless and that Pansy is the daughter of Neema and Madame Casy. They were lovers for six years, and when Pansy was born, she had to give up all claims to her. Furthermore, the Countess Kemoni points out that Madame Casy brought Isabel and Neema together so that Isabel could help Pansy. Upon hearing this disclosure, Isabel is determined to go to England.", "analysis": "Madame Casy had said earlier that she had high ambitions. To fulfill these, it is necessary for her daughter Pansy to make a great marriage. Consequently, when Lord Warburton leaves without proposing, Madame Casy drops her pose for a while and shows her true nature to Isabel. But Isabel is so astounded by Madame Casy's actions that she fails to perceive the true nature of things. Thus, when the Countess Kemoni tells Isabel about Pansy's parentage, Isabel, upon reflection, is able to credit the entire story. She realizes all the horror of her position. Not only did Madame Casy marry her to Neema, but she also made Isabel's fortune available to her ex-lover. Madame Casy, however, is not so evil as Neema. We see in their interview that he lacks perception for other people. At least Madame Casy recognizes the fine and precious qualities that Isabel possesses. She warns Neema not to destroy these. On the contrary, he is intent upon destroying Isabel's better attributes. It becomes completely clear that Neema lives solely for the sake of forms and appearance. He hates Isabel but wants to present to the world the appearance of a happily married couple. Anything that touches on the distasteful is for him repugnant. His sense of taste is thus corrupt and evil. It denies all human values in favor of superficial appearance. Consequently, he will send his daughter off to the convent for no logical reason except to satisfy some malignant purpose of his own. The Countess Kemoni has always disliked her brother. She has found Isabel attractive from the very first. Thus, this easily accounts for her revelation about her own brother. James carefully motivated this scene by having Neema be especially unpleasant to his sister; therefore she now gets her revenge."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Touchett': 'Seneca', 'Goodwood': 'Teddie', 'Merle': 'Casy', 'Gilbert': 'Bolling', 'Gemini': 'Kemoni', 'Rosier': 'Olayinka', 'flush': 'Donnelle', 'Rosier\\': 'Valen', 'Ludlow': 'Linell', 'Molyneux': 'Mycah'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Osmond': 'Neema'}}