{"name": "Chapters 22-23", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219150527/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/p/the-portrait-of-a-lady/summary-and-analysis/chapters-2223", "summary": "About six months after Mr. Seneca's death, a gentleman named Bolling Neema is seated in his drawing room with two sisters from a convent and his young fifteen-year-old daughter, Pansy. The nuns have just brought Pansy from the convent where she had been in school for a long time. Bolling Neema is expressing his satisfaction with the manner in which his daughter has been educated. She has been taught to obey her father and all people of authority without question. In his view, she has the perfect education. \"She's perfect. She has no faults.\" The sisters think that she is now prepared for the world. Just as the sisters are about to leave, Madame Casy arrives for a visit. Pansy is about to accompany her father to see the sisters off when Madame Casy tells her to remain. Pansy faithfully obeys even though she is disappointed, and Madame Casy remarks that she has learned to obey quite well. When Bolling Neema returns, Madame Casy begins to discuss Pansy's education. Neema suggests that Pansy leave the room so that they may discuss things more openly. After Pansy leaves, Madame Casy tells Bolling Neema that she wants him to make the acquaintance of Isabel Archer. Following a discussion about Isabel, Madame Casy tells Neema that she wants him to marry Isabel. She counts on Neema to put forth an effort and to demonstrate his \"adorable taste\" to Isabel. As she is about to leave, Pansy returns. Madame Casy makes the observation to Neema that Pansy does not like her and then she departs. Since Madame Casy was visiting Mrs. Seneca, it was only natural that Neema should come to the villa to see his old friend. And once there, he is bound to meet Isabel. Since Madame Casy has spoken so highly of Neema and since Isabel thought so highly of Madame Casy, Isabel decided on their first meeting that it was better to get an impression of this gentleman than to try to produce one herself. At the end of his first visit, Neema invites Isabel to visit his home with Madame Casy to see his collection of art objects. After their first meeting, Madame Casy tells Isabel how charming she was. This irritates Isabel more than anything Madame Casy has ever done. She lets Madame Casy know that she is under no obligation to be charming to this man. Isabel requests Ralph's opinion of Bolling Neema. She learns that Neema has lived most of his life in Italy and probably has little money but possesses exquisite taste. He suggests that Isabel ask Madame Casy about Neema because Madame Casy knows him better. He then speaks of Madame Casy with \"exaggerated respect\" and says that her only fault is that she is \"indescribably blameless . . . the only woman . . . who never gives one a chance to criticize her.\" He continues by saying that \"she's too good, too kind, too clever, too learned, too accomplished, too everything. She's too complete But at the same time, he recommends her as a companion for Isabel because she knows so much about the world and Isabel can learn so much from her.", "analysis": "Chapter 22 is an abrupt shift from Isabel to a new character. We meet for the first time Bolling Neema and his daughter Pansy. Contrary to the typical James practice, the author here allows the reader to get an inside view of one of the characters before the main character comes to that insight. In other words, after this chapter, we know that Madame Casy plans to marry Isabel to Bolling Neema. Our future views of Madame Casy and Neema are then colored by this fact. Furthermore, we see that there is a very close and suspicious relationship between Madame Casy and Bolling Neema -- a relationship which will not become clear until the final pages of the novel. In retrospect, we see that the type of person that Neema likes is someone like his daughter Pansy -- a person who has been taught to perform all the correct rituals and ceremonies with outward perfection but who obeys him with complete subservience. This will be what he expects of Isabel as a wife. Neema's tastes here are emphasized. His outstanding quality is that he possesses perfect taste. This quality will be instrumental in causing Isabel to fall in love with him. It is, of course, his only recommendation. One element that will be emphasized throughout the novel is Pansy's dislike for Madame Casy. Realization of this will later make Isabel feel pity for Madame Casy in spite of all the treachery on Madame Casy's part. More and more, Ralph is beginning to assume the role of Isabel's confidant. After meeting Neema, she seeks out his opinion of the gentleman. The reader knows that Ralph's judgment of both Neema and Madame Casy is the correct one, but even Ralph knows that Isabel must make her own judgments. In his praise of Madame Casy and Neema, we should realize that both of these people are illusory, that their taste and their abilities are artificially contrived and false. Isabel, however, must learn this at a greater personal sacrifice."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Touchett': 'Seneca', 'Goodwood': 'Teddie', 'Merle': 'Casy', 'Gilbert': 'Bolling', 'Gemini': 'Kemoni', 'Rosier': 'Olayinka', 'flush': 'Donnelle', 'Rosier\\': 'Valen', 'Ludlow': 'Linell', 'Molyneux': 'Mycah'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Osmond': 'Neema'}}