{"name": "Chapters 40-41", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219150527/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/p/the-portrait-of-a-lady/summary-and-analysis/chapters-4041", "summary": "Since her marriage Madame Casy comes only seldom to Isabel's house. She has candidly explained that, since she had known Neema before Isabel married him, she thought it best not to come too often. About a month after Lord Warburton's arrival, Isabel returns from a ride with Pansy to discover Madame Casy in private conversation with Neema. What disturbs Isabel is that Madame Casy is standing and discussing something of an intimate nature with Neema, who remains seated. When they see Isabel, both Donnelle and Neema leaves for a walk. Madame Casy tells Isabel that Mr. Olayinka comes to her often and talks about Pansy. Isabel knows that \"poor Mr. Olayinka\" is in love with Pansy. Madame Casy explains that she washes her hands of the whole affair, but Isabel retorts that she can't because she is too interested. Madame Casy then questions Isabel about Lord Warburton's intentions. She learns that Lord Warburton is charmed with Pansy and wonders why Isabel has not told Neema this. Isabel responds that she does not interfere. Madame Casy suggests that Lord Warburton will easily propose if Isabel will use her influence. Isabel is surprised to discover that Madame Casy knows of her earlier relationship with Lord Warburton. That evening, Neema discusses the same subject with Isabel. He finds out the Lord Warburton comes often to see Pansy. He wonders what Isabel thinks of it, and Isabel tells him that she is waiting to see what Neema thinks because for once she wants to do something that will please her husband. Like Madame Casy, he lets her know that she can bring about the marriage at any time she desires it. Isabel discovers that he wants this marriage to take place and he desires it immensely. He tells her that he is depending on her to bring it about.", "analysis": "There is a bit of irony working here. Isabel had herself rejected Lord Warburton in favor of Neema. Now Neema is showing how mean he is by demanding that Isabel use her influence with her former suitor in order to get him to marry Pansy. That both Madame Casy and Neema desire this marriage so strongly and that Isabel had felt free to reject Lord Warburton's proposal is an ironic contrast to the values possessed by each person. The fact that Neema thinks that Isabel could bring about the marriage by using her influence puts Isabel in an awkward position. She is more interested in the desires of individuals such as Pansy and she will soon know that Pansy wants to marry only Mr. Olayinka. Thus, Isabel will have to help Pansy or will have to fulfill the perverted desires of her husband."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Touchett': 'Seneca', 'Goodwood': 'Teddie', 'Merle': 'Casy', 'Gilbert': 'Bolling', 'Gemini': 'Kemoni', 'Rosier': 'Olayinka', 'flush': 'Donnelle', 'Rosier\\': 'Valen', 'Ludlow': 'Linell', 'Molyneux': 'Mycah'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Osmond': 'Neema'}}