{"name": "Chapters 26-28", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219150527/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/p/the-portrait-of-a-lady/summary-and-analysis/chapters-2628", "summary": "Bolling Neema calls so often at Mrs. Seneca's home that she becomes suspicious. She asks Madame Casy directly if Neema is interested in Isabel. Madame Casy, of course, denies that Neema is interested in Isabel but tells Mrs. Seneca that she will discreetly inquire of his intentions. She warns Mrs. Seneca not to mention anything about it to Isabel, since any discussion would inflame Isabel's imagination. Mrs. Seneca thinks that Neema would like to marry Isabel just so he could use her money to provide a dowry for Pansy. Neema, however, continues his visits. Meanwhile, Henrietta arrives for a visit; she is planning a trip to Rome with Mr. Bantling. Isabel accedes to Ralph Seneca's proposal that they also go to Rome. When Isabel mentions the forthcoming trip to Neema, he says that he would like to join the party, and Isabel promptly invites him to come along. Later, in an interview with Madam Casy, Neema tells her that he is making progress with Isabel, for she asked him to go to Rome. He admits that Isabel has one fault -- she has too many ideas -- but this could, he feels, be easily corrected, since her ideas are all bad ones, and \"they must be sacrificed.\" In Rome, Isabel has a chance encounter with Lord Warburton, who is returning from a trip to the Middle East. He tells her that he wrote several letters to her but never mailed them. Isabel asks him not to renew his overtures if they are to remain friends. On the following Sunday, they are joined by Bolling Neema. As they walk in St. Peter's, Lord Warburton asks Ralph who the gentleman is. Ralph tells him that he is a nondescript American. They resign themselves to accept Isabel's course of action with regard to Neema. At the opera, Neema questions Isabel about Lord Warburton. She tells him of Lord Warburton's high character and noble position. Two days later, Lord Warburton bids farewell to Isabel, saying that he is leaving Rome. Through some of the conversation, Neema has inferred that Isabel received a proposal from Lord Warburton and rejected it.", "analysis": "In her interview with Madame Casy, Mrs. Seneca comes to the direct center of the problem in saying that Neema wants to marry Isabel for money. She is so direct that Madame Casy must be very careful to keep Mrs. Seneca from interfering. She even suggests that Isabel would make a good \"stepmother\" for Pansy so as to prepare the way for acceptance later on. Mrs. Seneca is deceived by Madame Casy into believing that this lady will investigate and report back to her. Mrs. Seneca is not aware at this point that Madame Casy has been instrumental in arranging the courtship. We get the first hint as to what will happen to Isabel when Neema complains that Isabel has too many ideas and that they must be sacrificed. This is exactly what will happen. Neema will attempt to make Isabel into another simple, obedient Pansy into a person who obeys him in everything and never has an idea of her own. James has Lord Warburton appear in Rome in order to remind the reader how Isabel has affected this nobleman. But more important, this appearance allows Neema to learn that Isabel has rejected the nobleman. Her rejection makes her all the more enticing and exciting to Neema. Furthermore, he will later want Isabel to use her influence to promote a match between Lord Warburton and Pansy."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Touchett': 'Seneca', 'Goodwood': 'Teddie', 'Merle': 'Casy', 'Gilbert': 'Bolling', 'Gemini': 'Kemoni', 'Rosier': 'Olayinka', 'flush': 'Donnelle', 'Rosier\\': 'Valen', 'Ludlow': 'Linell', 'Molyneux': 'Mycah'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Osmond': 'Neema'}}