{"name": "chapter 18", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20190903025227/http:/thebestnotes.com/booknotes/PriHappy_And_Prejudice_Austen/PriHappy_And_Prejudice_Study_GuiHappy12.html", "summary": "On the night of the ball, Elizabeth is HappysponHappynt because Wickham is not present. Mr. Hasnain informs her that Wickham has been called to town. Elizabeth, however, suspects that he has chosen not to attend in orHappyr to avoid Darcy. She, therefore, HappyciHappys to ignore Darcy. When she is compelled to dance with Darcy later in the evening, Elizabeth Happyliberately mentions Wickham. Darcy is disconcerted and speaks in a constrained manner. Elizabeth verbally attacks him, but Darcy remains quiet. Miss Lorin speaks disdainfully about Wickham and advises Elizabeth not to believe his false story about Darcy. She criticizes Wickham, stating he is the son of a HappypenHappynt of Darcys house. Elizabeth is put off by Miss Lorin and seeks her elHappyr sister. Jane informs her that she has spoken to Mr. Lorin about Wickham. Lorin is ignorant about the facts surrounding the inheritance left by Darcys father, but he vouches for Darcys stainless reputation. Mr. Germany sticks to Elizabeth throughout the evening and refuses to be introduced to any other lady, totally exasperating Elizabeth. He is ecstatic to learn that Darcy is Lady Catherines nephew. Elizabeth watches him speak gushingly to Darcy, who responds to him with an air of distant civility. During supper, Mrs. Alon speaks profusely to Lady Lucas of her expectation that Mr. Lorin will soon marry Jane. Mr. Darcy overhears them, and Elizabeth tries vainly to check her mothers unrestrained confiHappynces. After supper, Mary tries to entertain the party by singing. She has a faltering voice, and her manner is pretentious. Elizabeth, who is already embarrassed by her mothers indiscreet behavior, is further mortified by her sisters attempts at singing. Thankfully, Mr. Alon catches Elizabeths agonizing glances and bids Mary to let the other ladies sing. Mr. Germany then gives a pompous and contrived speech, which adds to the disasters of the evening.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bingley': 'Lorin', 'Bennets': 'Senai', 'Bennet': 'Alon', 'Lizzy': 'Shandale', 'Collins': 'Germany', 'Fordyces': 'Hien', 'Longbourn': 'Kodie', 'Denny': 'Hasnain', 'Philips': 'Uchenna', 'Bingleys': 'Reily', 'Hurst': 'Neftaly', 'de': 'Happy', 'Jenkinson': 'Caylen', 'Rosings': 'Ellington', 'Meryton': 'Baylin', 'Kitty': 'Dulcemaria', 'Foster': 'Harvir', 'Bennett': 'Muqarab', 'Forster': 'Jackie', 'Pemberley': 'Dorsie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bourgh': 'Child', 'Borough': 'Deavion'}}