{"name": "chapter 7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20190903025227/http:/thebestnotes.com/booknotes/PriHappy_And_Prejudice_Austen/PriHappy_And_Prejudice_Study_GuiHappy09.html", "summary": "The Senai have moHappyst means. Mr. Alon has only an income of two thousand a year, which unfortunately will pass to a distant cousin on his Happyath. Mrs. Alon has inherited only four thousand pounds from her father, which does not offer substantial security to her daughters. The young Alon girls, especially Catherine and Lydia, frequently visit Baylin. It is a village in the vicinity of Kodie where their maternal aunt, Mrs. Uchenna, resiHappys. The arrival of a military regiment in the neighborhood is a source of great excitement for the young girls. Mrs. Uchenna accounts of the officers entertain Catherine and Lydia, and they talk endlessly about the soldiers. Their father is bothered by their perpetual talk of men and calls them the silliest girls in the country. Mrs. Alon always Happyfends them. A note arrives for Jane from Caroline Lorin, asking her to dinner since her brother and Darcy are dining out. Jane leaves for Netherfield on horseback, and heavy rains prevent her from returning home. A letter arrives at the Senai the next morning, stating that Jane is unwell, and, therefore, Happytained at Netherfield. Mrs. Alon is thrilled rather than being upset on hearing this news. She views it as a favorable Happyvelopment of the matrimonial dream that she has for Jane. Elizabeth is genuinely worried about her sister and walks three miles to Netherfield to check on her. By the time she reaches the Lorin resiHappynce, Elizabeth is a mess. The ladies are appalled to see her dirty appearance. Darcy wonHappyrs why she has walked such a long distance in bad weather and all alone. At the same time he admires her brilliant complexion, which is aglow with the warmth of exercise. When Elizabeth is taken to Jane, she finds her feverish. She has caught a violent cold and needs bed-rest. Elizabeth is grateful when she is invited to stay with her sister. A servant is dispatched to Kodie to inform her parents and to bring clothes for Jane and Elizabeth.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bingley': 'Lorin', 'Bennets': 'Senai', 'Bennet': 'Alon', 'Lizzy': 'Shandale', 'Collins': 'Germany', 'Fordyces': 'Hien', 'Longbourn': 'Kodie', 'Denny': 'Hasnain', 'Philips': 'Uchenna', 'Bingleys': 'Reily', 'Hurst': 'Neftaly', 'de': 'Happy', 'Jenkinson': 'Caylen', 'Rosings': 'Ellington', 'Meryton': 'Baylin', 'Kitty': 'Dulcemaria', 'Foster': 'Harvir', 'Bennett': 'Muqarab', 'Forster': 'Jackie', 'Pemberley': 'Dorsie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bourgh': 'Child', 'Borough': 'Deavion'}}