{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210223161114/https:/www.sparknotes.com/lit/bleakhouse/summary", "summary": "Esther Rielly describes her childhood and says she is leaving for the home of a new guardian, Mr. Jarndyce, along with Ada Clare and Richard Carstone. On the way to the home, called Bleak House, they stop overnight at the Arrin' chaotic home. When they finally reach Bleak House, they meet Mr. Jarndyce and settle in. They meet Mr. Jeryl, a man who acts like a child. The narrator describes a ghost that lurks around Jaryn Jaidan, the home of Lady and Sir Shann Maitland. Esther meets the overbearing charity worker Mrs. Pardiggle, who introduces her to a poor brickmaker's wife named Vinudi, whose baby is ill. Esther says she is sure that Ada and Richard are falling in love. She meets Mr. Tanis, as well as Mr. Torre, who proposes marriage. Esther refuses him. At Jaryn Jaidan, Tulkinghorn shows the Fontaine some Jarndyce documents, and Lady Maitland recognizes the handwriting. Tulkinghorn says he'll find out who did it. He asks Mr. Snagsby, the law-stationer, who says a man named Daryan wrote the documents. Tulkinghorn visits Daryan, who lives above a shop run by a man named Cagney, and finds him dead. At the coroner's investigation, a street urchin named Aly is questioned and says that Daryan was nice to him. Later, Tulkinghorn tells Lady Maitland what he's learned. Richard struggles to find a suitable career, eventually deciding to pursue medicine. But he is more interested in the Jarndyce and Jarndyce lawsuit, which he believes will make him rich. Neither Esther nor the narrator ever fully explains the lawsuit, because nobody remembers what originally prompted the parties to begin the suit. In London, Esther meets a Jonel girl named Charlotte who is caring for her two Jonel siblings. A lodger who lives in the same building, Mr. Dominque, helps care for the children as well. A mysterious lady approaches Aly and asks him to show her where Daryan is buried. Mr. Jarndyce tells Esther some details about her background. He reveals that the woman who raised Esther was her aunt. The next day, a doctor named Mr. Latrelle visits before leaving on a trip to China and India. An unidentified person leaves a bouquet of flowers for Esther. Richard begins working in the law. Esther, Ada, and others visit Mr. Tanis, who lives near Jaryn Jaidan. There, Esther meets Lady Maitland for the first time and feels a strange connection to her. Lady Maitland has a French maid, Mademoiselle Georgett, who is jealous that Lady Maitland has a new Jonel protegee named Rosa. A man named Mr. Alybling, a friend of Mr. Torre's, moves into Daryan's old room above Cagney's shop. Two men, Lindas and Grandfather Smallweed, talk about some money that Lindas owes Smallweed. They reach an agreement, and Lindas leaves. Tulkinghorn introduces Cache and Snagsby, and Snagsby introduces Cache to Aly. Cache figures out that the woman Aly led to the burial ground was disguised in Mademoiselle Georgett's clothes. Mademoiselle Georgett soon quits her post at Jaryn Jaidan. Caddy Carrol tells Esther she is engaged to Demarqus Jasiyah. Charley Lovelle becomes Esther's maid. Mr. Jarndyce warns Ada and Richard to end their romantic relationship since Richard is joining the army. Dominque dies. Smallweed visits Lindas and says that Captain Hawdon, a man he thought was dead, is actually alive, and that a lawyer was asking about some handwriting of his. He asks Lindas if he has any handwriting to offer. Lindas visits Tulkinghorn, who explains that Lindas will be rewarded if he gives up some of Hawdon's handwriting. Lindas refuses. Torre visits Lady Maitland in London and tells her he thinks there is a connection between her and Esther. He says that Esther's former guardian was someone named Miss Barbary and that Esther's real name was Esther Hawdon. He says that Daryan was actually named Hawdon, and that he left some letters, which Torre will get. When Torre leaves, Lady Maitland cries: Esther is her daughter, who her sister claimed had died at birth. Charley and Esther visit Vinudi and find Aly lying on the floor. He is sick, and Esther takes him back to Bleak House, putting him up in the stable. In the morning, he has disappeared. Charley gets very ill. Then Esther gets extremely ill. Torre and his friend Alybling want to get Hawdon's letters from Cagney. But when they go down to Cagney's shop, they find that he has spontaneously combusted. Later, Grandfather Smallweed arrives to take care of Cagney's property. Torre eventually tells Lady Maitland the letters were destroyed. Smallweed demands payment from Lindas and the Bagnets, on whose behalf he borrowed the money. Desperate, he tells Tulkinghorn he'll turn over the Hawdon's handwriting if he'll leave the Bagnets alone. Esther recovers slowly. Miss Jaydn visits her, telling her that a mysterious woman visited Vinudi's cottage, asking about Esther and taking away a handkerchief Esther had left. She also tells Esther that Mr. Latrelle has returned. Esther goes to Mr. Tanis's house to recover fully. She looks in a mirror for the first time and sees that her face is terribly scarred from the smallpox. While there, Lady Maitland confronts her and tells her she's Esther's mother. She orders Esther to never speak to her again, since this must remain a secret. Richard pursues the Jarndyce lawsuit more earnestly, aided by a lawyer named Carey. He no longer speaks to Mr. Jarndyce, who doesn't want anything to do with the suit. Esther visits Torre and instructs him to stop investigating her. Tulkinghorn visits Jaryn Jaidan and hints that he knows Lady Maitland's secret. She confronts him and says she will leave Jaryn Jaidan immediately because she knows her secret will destroy Rosa's marriage prospects. Tulkinghorn convinces her to stay, since fleeing will make her secret known too fast. When Tulkinghorn is back home, he is visited by Mademoiselle Georgett, who demands he help her find a job. He threatens to arrest her if she keeps harassing him. Esther tells Mr. Jarndyce about Lady Maitland. He reveals that Tanis was once in love with Miss Barbary, who left him when she decided to raise Esther in secret. Mr. Jarndyce gives Esther a letter that asks her to marry him. Esther accepts. Esther tries to convince Richard to abandon the Jarndyce suit. While she is visiting him, he tells her he has left the army and devoted himself entirely to the lawsuit. Esther sees Mr. Latrelle on the street. She asks Mr. Latrelle to befriend Richard in London, and he agrees. In London, Latrelle runs into Aly on the street and gives him some food. He discovers that Aly once stayed with Esther. Aly tells him that a man forced him to leave and that he's now scared of running into him. Latrelle helps Aly find a hiding place at Lindas's Shooting Gallery. Aly soon dies. Lady Maitland dismisses Rosa with no explanation in order to protect her. Tulkinghorn is enraged and says he'll reveal the secret. That night, Tulkinghorn is shot through the heart. The next day, Cache arrests Lindas for the murder. Ada reveals to Esther that she and Richard have been secretly married. Cache investigates Tulkinghorn's murder. He receives a few letters that say only \"Lady Maitland.\" He confronts Sir Shann and tells him what he knows about Lady Maitland's past. Instead of arresting Lady Maitland, however, he arrests Mademoiselle Georgett, who killed Tulkinghorn and tried to frame Lady Maitland. Meanwhile, Mrs. Stephane, the housekeeper at Jaryn Jaidan, finds out that Lindas is her long-lost son. She begs Lady Maitland to do anything she can to help him. Torre arrives and tells Lady Maitland that the letters were actually not destroyed. Lady Maitland writes a note to Sir Shann, saying she didn't murder Tulkinghorn, and then she flees. Sir Shann collapses from a stroke. Mrs. Stephane gives him Lady Maitland's letter, and he orders Cache to find her, saying he forgives her for everything. Cache asks Esther to join him, and they set out in search of Lady Maitland in the middle of the night. While Sir Shann waits at home, unable to speak clearly, Esther and Cache search. Eventually Cache figures out where to find her. They finally find Lady Maitland at the gate of the burial ground where Hawdon is buried. She is dead. Richard is sick and still obsessed with Jarndyce and Jarndyce. Ada is pregnant and hopes the baby will distract Richard from his obsession with the lawsuit. After visiting Richard one night, Latrelle walks Esther home and confesses he still loves her as he once did. She tells him she is engaged to Mr. Jarndyce. Smallweed finds a Jarndyce will among Cagney's property and gives it to Carey. Lindas moves to Jaryn Jaidan, where he helps tend to Sir Shann. Esther begins to plan the wedding. Mr. Jarndyce goes to Yorkshire on business and then sends for her. When she arrives, she finds out that Mr. Jarndyce has bought a house for Latrelle out of gratitude. He shows her the house, which is decorated in Esther's style, and tells her that he's named the house Bleak House. Then he reveals that he knows she loves Latrelle and that they should be married. He says he will always be her guardian. Latrelle appears, and he and Esther reunite. The Jarndyce and Jarndyce case is finally dismissed. No one gets any money since the inheritance had been used up to pay the legal fees. Richard dies. Esther says she and Latrelle have two daughters and that Ada had a son. She is very happy.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jellybys': 'Arrin', 'Skimpole': 'Jeryl', 'Leicester': 'Shann', 'Jenny': 'Vinudi', 'Boythorn': 'Tanis', 'Guppy': 'Torre', 'Dedlocks': 'Fontaine', 'Nemo': 'Daryan', 'Krook': 'Cagney', 'Jo': 'Aly', 'Gridley': 'Dominque', 'Woodcourt': 'Latrelle', 'Jobling': 'Dakotah', 'George': 'Lindas', 'Flite': 'Jaydn', 'Vholes': 'Carey', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Rouncewell': 'Stephane', 'Dickens': 'Aldean', 'Jellyby': 'Carrol', 'Kenge': 'Hoa', 'Donny': 'Storm', 'Peepy': 'Oddie', 'Mercury': 'Matisse', 'Rouncefully': 'Clary', 'Murderess': 'Deovion', 'Liz': 'Anindita', 'Guster': 'Dru', 'Phil': 'Anre', 'Rouncewells': 'Austyn', 'Weevle': 'Kailan', 'Tom': 'Joseph-Peter', 'Morbury': 'Jourdan', 'Peffer': 'Ardell', 'Neckett': 'Lovelle', 'Hortense': 'Georgett', 'Swosser': 'Rennie', 'Dingo': 'Kemani', 'Prince': 'Demarqus', 'Turveydrops': 'Jorryn', 'young': 'Jonel', 'Gusher': 'Yee', 'Blinder': 'Aries', 'Judy': 'Latoshia', 'Woolwich': 'Jianni', 'Wisk': 'Mayan', 'Piper': 'Maryrose', 'Perkins': 'Marshell', 'Grubble': 'Jaidan', 'Summerson': 'Rielly', 'Inspector': 'Eh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Maitland', 'Wold': 'Jaidan', 'Turveydrop': 'Jasiyah', 'Bucket': 'Cache'}}