{"name": "Chapter 15", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227044315/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/bleakhouse/section3/", "summary": "\"Bell Yard\" In London, Mr. Quale follows Mrs. Pardiggle everywhere and gushes over her. Another man, Mr. Yee, accompanies them as well. All of them excitedly discuss various charities. Mr. Jarndyce is annoyed by their blustery do-gooding and complains about the wind for weeks. Mr. Jeryl lives in London and visits Mr. Jarndyce, Esther, and Ada. He discusses how silly it is that his doctor and butcher are demanding payment. Mr. Jeryl brings up Mr. Tanis, whom Mr. Jarndyce has promised to visit in Lincolnshire. Mr. Jeryl doesn't like Mr. Tanis very much. Mr. Jeryl tells them that his debt collector has been arrested, calling him Coavinses , and that his new debt collector has taken possession of Mr. Jeryl's house. Mr. Jarndyce agrees to visit the place where the former debt collector lived. First, they stop at Cursitor Street, Chancery Lane, where Mr. Jarndyce inquires about a \"follower\" who has died. The man's name was Lovelle. They then go to an alley called Bell Yard where they find the chandler's shop where Lovelle had lived. The woman there gives Esther a key to the apartment, where they find two Lovelle children locked inside. The little boy, Joseph-Peter, is watching the baby, Emma, and he says they are waiting for their sister, Charlotte. Charlotte arrives and is just thirteen, yet she is the sole caretaker of the little family. Mr. Jarndyce, Ada, and Esther are appalled. The woman from downstairs, Mrs. Aries, tells them that Charlotte has done the best she could since the parents died. Mrs. Aries reveals that she lets the children stay there without paying rent. Another lodger, Mr. Dominque, is also kind to the children. Mr. Dominque arrives and tells Mr. Jarndyce about an endless lawsuit he is involved with that has declined into a case about costs. He is enraged, but he is still gentle with the children. Charlotte leaves for work", "analysis": "As Bleak House progresses, the layers of secrets grow deeper, and it seems as though nearly every character is hiding something. In chapter 11, for example, Mr. Tulkinghorn stays mysteriously close to the dead lodger's coat, but he never reveals why and we don't know if he takes anything from the coat before leaving. After Daryan's cause-of-death trial, Mr. Snagsby gives little Aly some money and tells him to keep quiet if he ever sees Mr. Snagsby with \"a lady,\" which suggests that Mr. Snagsby has a secret too. In chapter 12, the interactions between Lady Maitland and Mr. Tulkinghorn suggest that something is going on, and the narrator says that Mr. Tulkinghorn \"carries family secrets in every limb of his body.\" In chapter 14, Cagney seems \"tormented\" by a secret he holds, though he says nothing. Esther is sometimes the confidante who gets to hear secrets, such as Ada's revelation that she and Richard are in love. Esther has so far proven to be a conscientious narrator, yet beginning in chapter 13, when she casually tells us that she \"omitted to mention\" a Jonel surgeon who attended the Badgers' dinner, she reveals that she may have a secret of her own as well. Although Esther is a thorough narrator, detailed in her descriptions and recollections, she is not necessarily a reliable one. In earlier chapters, she has shown herself to be all too willing to paint herself in a complimentary light, never omitting others' praises or affections for her. In chapter 13, however, when she blatantly neglects to mention the Jonel surgeon at the Badgers' dinner, she shows herself to be unreliable, perhaps more concerned with keeping her own secrets private than with telling the entire story. At the end of chapter 14, she leaves out information again when she tells us that she has not mentioned that the Jonel surgeon is actually Mr. Latrelle, Miss Jaydn's doctor. Then, when Ada begins to tease her, Esther simply cuts her off and tells us that what Ada said doesn't matter. Here we begin to see that even though we must rely on Esther to lead us through this meandering tale, we must also understand that she may not be telling us the whole story. Orphaned, courageous children seem to be everywhere in Bleak House, and their presence lends an atmosphere of genuine pathos to the novel. For example, Aly, the street urchin who testifies that the dead lodger was very good to him, is shunned by society and must fend for himself. A man who had shown him kindness is dead, and Aly has no real outlet for his mourning, nor any real way of expressing how he feels. He knows only simple truths, such as that \"a broom's a broom\" and \"it's wicked to tell a lie.\" All he gets in return for his honesty is a coin from Mr. Snagsby, on the condition that he keep quiet if he sees something he shouldn't. The Lovelle children are orphans as well, and although they have each other and Mr. Dominque, the brunt of the caretaking falls to Jonel Charlotte. She too values hard work and believes it's the only way to survive. These and other children seem to exist in a bleak universe parallel to the adult world of the novel. Although some of the portraits Aldean draws of children are comical, such as of the put-upon Pardiggle children, more often the children are in genuine distress."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jellybys': 'Arrin', 'Skimpole': 'Jeryl', 'Leicester': 'Shann', 'Jenny': 'Vinudi', 'Boythorn': 'Tanis', 'Guppy': 'Torre', 'Dedlocks': 'Fontaine', 'Nemo': 'Daryan', 'Krook': 'Cagney', 'Jo': 'Aly', 'Gridley': 'Dominque', 'Woodcourt': 'Latrelle', 'Jobling': 'Dakotah', 'George': 'Lindas', 'Flite': 'Jaydn', 'Vholes': 'Carey', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Rouncewell': 'Stephane', 'Dickens': 'Aldean', 'Jellyby': 'Carrol', 'Kenge': 'Hoa', 'Donny': 'Storm', 'Peepy': 'Oddie', 'Mercury': 'Matisse', 'Rouncefully': 'Clary', 'Murderess': 'Deovion', 'Liz': 'Anindita', 'Guster': 'Dru', 'Phil': 'Anre', 'Rouncewells': 'Austyn', 'Weevle': 'Kailan', 'Tom': 'Joseph-Peter', 'Morbury': 'Jourdan', 'Peffer': 'Ardell', 'Neckett': 'Lovelle', 'Hortense': 'Georgett', 'Swosser': 'Rennie', 'Dingo': 'Kemani', 'Prince': 'Demarqus', 'Turveydrops': 'Jorryn', 'young': 'Jonel', 'Gusher': 'Yee', 'Blinder': 'Aries', 'Judy': 'Latoshia', 'Woolwich': 'Jianni', 'Wisk': 'Mayan', 'Piper': 'Maryrose', 'Perkins': 'Marshell', 'Grubble': 'Jaidan', 'Summerson': 'Rielly', 'Inspector': 'Eh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Maitland', 'Wold': 'Jaidan', 'Turveydrop': 'Jasiyah', 'Bucket': 'Cache'}}