{"name": "Chapter 23", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227044315/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/bleakhouse/section5/", "summary": "\"Esther's Narrative\" Esther says they left Mr. Tanis's after six weeks. They hadn't seen Lady Maitland again, except at church. Esther has an idea that her presence is as vexing to Lady Maitland as Lady Maitland's is to her. Esther recounts an incident that occurred before she left Mr. Tanis's house. One day, the Frenchwoman sends for Esther. She says how wonderful Esther is and tells her that she has quit her post as Lady Maitland's servant. She asks Esther to hire her as a maid. Esther says she keeps no maid, and the matter is closed. Richard visits Bleak House regularly, but Esther worries that he is too fixated on the Jarndyce and Jarndyce lawsuit. During one visit, Esther asks if he feels settled, and Richard admits that he doesn't because he's in debt. He worries that he is hurting Ada by being so adrift. He's no longer interested in law and plans to enlist in the army. Esther meets up with Caddy Carrol, who tells her that Demarqus Jasiyah respects her deeply. Caddy asks Esther to accompany her and Demarqus when they tell their parents of their engagement. At the Jorryn, the elder Mr. Jasiyah accepts their news and graciously tells them that he will live with them and that they will provide him with his usual comforts. At the Arrin' home, Caddy tries to tell Mrs. Carrol her news, but Mrs. Carrol is opening mail and pays little attention to her. She says she would be upset by the news if she wasn't so busy. That night, Charley arrives at Bleak House. Mr. Jarndyce has hired her to be Esther's maid. Esther and Charley are very happy", "analysis": "Suicide appears in both chapter 21 and chapter 22 and, coupled with the reputed suicide of Joseph-Peter Jarndyce that was discussed earlier in the novel, forms a dismal motif. In chapter 21, Lindas discusses with Grandfather Smallweed an attempted suicide of a seemingly successful man and then his eventual death by not-quite-accidental drowning. Lindas is using the story as a kind of justification for why he never let himself be \"made\" by another person. In chapter 22, Mr. Tulkinghorn remembers a friend much like himself who hanged himself when he decided life was too monotonous. Although neither Lindas nor Mr. Tulkinghorn are themselves contemplating suicide, their invocations of it suggest that they are well aware of what can happen when seekers do not find what they are searching for, or when life loses its meaning. Echoes of Richard's complaint--that his work is too monotonous--are evident in the complaint of Mr. Tulkinghorn's unfortunate friend, adding to the suggestion that a life without passion and deep engagement ultimately becomes unbearable. Worlds collide violently in chapter 22, creating a sense of building tension, intrigue, and mystery in the story. The two women caring for a sick baby during Mrs. Pardiggle's charity visit reappear in this chapter, this time meeting with Mr. Cache and Mr. Snagsby. Vinudi reveals that her baby died, but now her friend, Anindita, has a baby of her own. Lady Maitland's French maid, Mademoiselle Georgett, surprisingly appears in Mr. Tulkinghorn's office, adding to the not-so-mysterious mystery of who the woman is that Aly took to the dead lodger's grave. And Aly, who is becoming an integral figure in the novel, seems to be the one common denominator among these different worlds, leading characters to one another and serving as the link between them. Although Aly makes the same claim again and again that he doesn't know anything, the fact that he seems to know everyone suggests that he's aware of much more than he lets on. Mr. Jarndyce's outburst regarding Richard's fixation on the Jarndyce and Jarndyce lawsuit in chapter 24 adds a significantly darker note to the already disturbing case. Richard has always casually referred to his certainty that the lawsuit will provide for him and Ada in the future, but Mr. Jarndyce and Esther usually dismiss his claims wearily. This time, however, Mr. Jarndyce cries that it is \"better to borrow, better to beg, better to die\" than look to the lawsuit to provide. The extremity of his claim, and his unusual show of passion, shocks Richard, Ada, and Esther. The lawsuit, with its tedious, endless proceedings, usually seems like a hum in the background in the story, a strange mystery that no one is in too much hurry to unravel. At this moment, however, the true danger and darkness of the suit break the surface. When Mr. Jarndyce orders Richard and Ada to dissolve their romantic relationship, in a way he may be trying to protect Ada from Richard's fervor over the suit."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jellybys': 'Arrin', 'Skimpole': 'Jeryl', 'Leicester': 'Shann', 'Jenny': 'Vinudi', 'Boythorn': 'Tanis', 'Guppy': 'Torre', 'Dedlocks': 'Fontaine', 'Nemo': 'Daryan', 'Krook': 'Cagney', 'Jo': 'Aly', 'Gridley': 'Dominque', 'Woodcourt': 'Latrelle', 'Jobling': 'Dakotah', 'George': 'Lindas', 'Flite': 'Jaydn', 'Vholes': 'Carey', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Rouncewell': 'Stephane', 'Dickens': 'Aldean', 'Jellyby': 'Carrol', 'Kenge': 'Hoa', 'Donny': 'Storm', 'Peepy': 'Oddie', 'Mercury': 'Matisse', 'Rouncefully': 'Clary', 'Murderess': 'Deovion', 'Liz': 'Anindita', 'Guster': 'Dru', 'Phil': 'Anre', 'Rouncewells': 'Austyn', 'Weevle': 'Kailan', 'Tom': 'Joseph-Peter', 'Morbury': 'Jourdan', 'Peffer': 'Ardell', 'Neckett': 'Lovelle', 'Hortense': 'Georgett', 'Swosser': 'Rennie', 'Dingo': 'Kemani', 'Prince': 'Demarqus', 'Turveydrops': 'Jorryn', 'young': 'Jonel', 'Gusher': 'Yee', 'Blinder': 'Aries', 'Judy': 'Latoshia', 'Woolwich': 'Jianni', 'Wisk': 'Mayan', 'Piper': 'Maryrose', 'Perkins': 'Marshell', 'Grubble': 'Jaidan', 'Summerson': 'Rielly', 'Inspector': 'Eh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Maitland', 'Wold': 'Jaidan', 'Turveydrop': 'Jasiyah', 'Bucket': 'Cache'}}