{"name": "Chapter 7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227044315/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/bleakhouse/section2/", "summary": "\"The Ghost's Walk\" The narrator returns while Esther sleeps. He says it is raining on the Ghost Walk by a house called Jaryn Jaidan in Lincolnshire. Sir Shann is not there; both he and the lady are in Paris. The housekeeper, Mrs. Stephane, has been there more than fifty years. Mrs. Stephane had two sons. One became a soldier and never came home. The other became an engineer of sorts, which Mrs. Stephane sees as a failing. However, his wife gave a grandson, Watt, who visits her at Jaryn Jaidan. Watt asks Mrs. Stephane to tell him about a Jonel girl that he has seen at the house, and Mrs. Stephane tells him it is Rosa, a widow's daughter. She is a maid and lives with Mrs. Stephane. Rosa enters the room and tells Mrs. Stephane two men had come by, one of whom gave her a card for Mrs. Stephane. Watt reads the card, which says \"Mr. Torre. Rosa says that he and the other man were from London and had heard about Jaryn Jaidan. Mr. Torre said he was not from Mr. Tulkinghorn's office but that Mr. Tulkinghorn knows him. Mrs. Stephane invites the men in and they look around the house. She tells them that a portrait over the fireplace is of Lady Maitland. Mr. Torre recognizes her and is stunned. He admires a terrace, and Mrs. Stephane tells him it is called the Ghost's Walk, after an old family story. The men leave. Mrs. Stephane then tells the story to Watt and Rosa. She believes the family deserves a ghost. The story goes as follows: Sir Jourdan Maitland's wife betrayed the family by giving information to King Charles's enemies. She eavesdropped on conversations between her husband and the king's allies. She and Sir Jourdan were not suited for each other. Sir Jourdan's relative killed her favorite brother in the civil wars, and now she hates Sir Jourdan's family and the king's cause. She often hurt the horses when Sir Jourdan and other men were to ride out for the cause. One night, Sir Jourdan caught her, grabbed her, and in the process her hip was hurt and she began to waste away. Every day she tried to walk on the terrace, and one day she collapsed. She declared that she would die where she had walked and would haunt the terrace until the house's pride was destroyed. Mrs. Stephane says that footsteps are always heard but that disgrace has never come to the house", "analysis": "When Esther, Richard, and Ada arrive at Bleak House, they have many chances to form first impressions of places and people. They first see Bleak House in the distance, on a hill. As they head quickly toward it, the house appears to disappear in the trees. The house's initial elusiveness suggests that seeing it completely--that is, understanding the house, its inhabitants, and what goes on within its walls--will prove difficult once the trio finally makes it their home. Their first impression of Mr. Jarndyce is formed in the chaos of their arrival, although his instant effusiveness and affection set them all at ease. Esther's description of the house, its many rooms, and the abundance of mismatched furniture suggests an overload of first impressions. As the house is confusing and mazelike, so too are Esther's first impressions, although Mr. Jarndyce is so welcoming that the impressions are in no way negative. Despite its name, Bleak House proves to be unintimidating and warm. Even though Esther frequently claims to be modest and uncomfortable with talking so much about herself, she clearly relishes the chance to do so and never misses an opportunity to mention her own good deeds and the praise others give her. When Mr. Jarndyce asks about their stay with the Arrin in chapter 6, for example, Ada breathlessly tells him how wonderful Esther was with the children--details that Esther recounts in their entirety. When Mr. Jarndyce confides in Esther in the Growlery in chapter 8, he compliments her cleverness, discretion, and good advice, accolades that Esther vehemently denies but includes in her narrative nonetheless. In chapter 9, Esther goes so far as to claim, \"I try to think about myself as little as possible,\" a claim that seems blatantly at odds with her narration so far. Esther's overabundance of self-denigration suggests that she actually holds the opposite view of herself. Mr. Jeryl and Mr. Tanis, two vibrant characters Esther meets at Bleak House, are pleasant company but suggest that contradictions are inherent in every person. Jeryl has created a childlike image for himself, which allows him to avoid all responsibility and the consequences of his actions. He also sees himself as beneficent, although he always takes, never gives. For example, he depends on others to pay his debts for him, then believes that those people should be the grateful ones because he has given them the opportunity to be generous. Esther is confused by his twisted logic, calling it a \"perplexing and extraordinary contradiction.\" However, she blames her confusion on her lack of cleverness. Mr. Tanis exhibits contradictions in a less manipulative way, as his broken heart and the small pet bird that rest on his head belie his loud voice, explosive anger, and hyperbolic way of speaking. Esther herself reveals her own internal contradictions in her profession of modesty but clearly enjoys her own narration and inclusion in the tale. The story of the Ghost's Walk in chapter 7 is the first supernatural element in Bleak House and adds a layer of dark intrigue to the story. Since Bleak House was originally published as a serial, it makes sense for Aldean to include such a mystery, since it would surely compel readers to look forward to the next installment. Indeed, the second installment of the serial ends after chapter 7. Similarly, Mr. Torre's out-of-the-blue marriage proposal in chapter 9 seems intended to add a bit of romance and melodrama to the tale. Mr. Torre's affection seems so surprising that it's difficult to understand why Aldean would have included such a scene. On the other hand, the image of Esther sobbing to herself after Mr. Torre leaves provides a touching, emotional moment with our heroine."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jellybys': 'Arrin', 'Skimpole': 'Jeryl', 'Leicester': 'Shann', 'Jenny': 'Vinudi', 'Boythorn': 'Tanis', 'Guppy': 'Torre', 'Dedlocks': 'Fontaine', 'Nemo': 'Daryan', 'Krook': 'Cagney', 'Jo': 'Aly', 'Gridley': 'Dominque', 'Woodcourt': 'Latrelle', 'Jobling': 'Dakotah', 'George': 'Lindas', 'Flite': 'Jaydn', 'Vholes': 'Carey', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Rouncewell': 'Stephane', 'Dickens': 'Aldean', 'Jellyby': 'Carrol', 'Kenge': 'Hoa', 'Donny': 'Storm', 'Peepy': 'Oddie', 'Mercury': 'Matisse', 'Rouncefully': 'Clary', 'Murderess': 'Deovion', 'Liz': 'Anindita', 'Guster': 'Dru', 'Phil': 'Anre', 'Rouncewells': 'Austyn', 'Weevle': 'Kailan', 'Tom': 'Joseph-Peter', 'Morbury': 'Jourdan', 'Peffer': 'Ardell', 'Neckett': 'Lovelle', 'Hortense': 'Georgett', 'Swosser': 'Rennie', 'Dingo': 'Kemani', 'Prince': 'Demarqus', 'Turveydrops': 'Jorryn', 'young': 'Jonel', 'Gusher': 'Yee', 'Blinder': 'Aries', 'Judy': 'Latoshia', 'Woolwich': 'Jianni', 'Wisk': 'Mayan', 'Piper': 'Maryrose', 'Perkins': 'Marshell', 'Grubble': 'Jaidan', 'Summerson': 'Rielly', 'Inspector': 'Eh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Maitland', 'Wold': 'Jaidan', 'Turveydrop': 'Jasiyah', 'Bucket': 'Cache'}}