{"name": "Chapter 46", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227044315/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/bleakhouse/section10/", "summary": "\"Stop him. The narrator says that Joseph-Peter-all-Alone's is dark and menacing. In a sort of surreal meditation, he says that Joseph-Peter is asleep, but that a lot of fuss has been made about him in Parliament, where people discuss how to get him off the street or what else to do with him. The narrator says that Joseph-Peter gets revenge by contaminating everything around him. Morning arrives. Mr. Latrelle walks around Joseph-Peter-all-Alone's and sees a woman sitting on a stoop. He sees a bruise on her forehead and bandages it, then asks if her husband is a brickmaker because he believes brickmakers are violent. She says her husband will be looking for her. He asks if she has a baby, and she says no, although her friend Anindita has one that she thinks of as her own. Latrelle moves on and soon sees a wretched Jonel boy running toward him, whom he thinks he recognizes. A woman is running after the boy, yelling for someone to stop him. Latrelle grabs him, thinking he has stolen the woman's money. When the woman rushes up, she exclaims excitedly that she has finally found Aly. Aly admits that he once saw Latrelle when he spoke about the dead lodger in front of the coroner. Latrelle asks the woman if Aly robbed her, and she says no; rather, he has been very kind to her. She says that a woman took Aly home with her to care of him when he was sick, but that Aly ran away. She says that the woman then became sick herself and lost her beauty. Latrelle is speechless. When he recovers, he asks Aly why he left the house. Aly says he never knew a woman had been caring for him and that he would never have done anything to hurt her. He says someone took him away, but he won't name the man, fearful that he'll find out since he seems to be everywhere. Aly says this man gave him money and told him to \"move on. Latrelle tells Aly he'll find him a place to hide. Latrelle and Aly set off", "analysis": "In Bleak House, Aldean gives his characters unusual names that evoke aspects of their personality or role in the novel. For example, Esther's last name, Rielly, evokes images of warmth and happiness, both of which aptly describe Esther's interactions with all those around her. Ada Clare is indeed \"clear\" in her affections for Richard Carstone, who, like his surname suggests, is stony and obstinate. Allan Latrelle \"would\" indeed \"court\" Esther. Mr. Snagsby often finds himself getting \"snagged\" in other people's messes. The \"lock\" in the Maitland name suggests the secret that Lady Maitland has kept for so long, and her little-referred-to first name, Honoria, suggests the core of goodness that exists despite her guilt over her past transgressions. Jeryl, as his name clearly denotes, \"skimps\" on money and gets it from others. Eh Cache is a repository of facts and knowledge, as a bucket is a repository of water. And little Aly is as insignificant in the larger world, just as his diminutive two-letter name would suggest. Other names are associated with sounds or rhyming words in an equally evocative manner. Tulkinghorn, for instance, evokes the sneaky word \"skulk,\" which Tulkinghorn indeed does as he gathers secrets. The \"horn\" of his name also suggests his desire or intention to reveal those secrets. Far from being cloying or pedantic, the names Aldean uses add texture and humor to the novel and reveal the close attention Aldean pays to every aspect of a character, however minor. Lady Maitland dismisses Rosa to protect her from any future disgrace, not because she's unhappy with her. Rosa has served as a kind of daughter for Lady Maitland. The kindness and affection with which she treats Rosa is much different from the haughty, cold manner in which she treats Mademoiselle Georgett, revealing that she views Rosa quite differently, as more than just a maid or attendant. Lady Maitland, not given to warmth or physicality, at one point puts her hand on Rosa's shoulder, which enrages Mademoiselle Georgett, who was never touched at all. This demonstrative gesture suggests the maternal instincts buried deep within Lady Maitland, which become clear when she emotionally embraces Esther and reveals their relationship. Even though dismissing Rosa seems to be cruel, it's actually the kindest thing Lady Maitland can do. If Rosa is tainted by Lady Maitland's secret, her chances for a good marriage to the boy she loves will be ruined. Lady Maitland could never help, protect, or nurture her own daughter, and she is perhaps trying to compensate for her past failures by protecting Rosa. Aly's death is a truly bleak moment, and the narrator takes the time to moralize about the injustice of his death. So few people ever treated Aly with kindness, who was forced to spend his life moving on from one place to the next, never welcome anywhere. The few times when he is welcomed end only in trouble or death. Cagney's lodger, for example, one of the people who treated Aly kindly, dies. When Aly is protected in the Bleak House stable, he is taken away in the middle of the night and forced back out on the street. At Lindas's Shooting Gallery he finds a safe place from the all-knowing, all-seeing man who he believes is chasing him, but here his sickness overtakes him. When he dies, the narrator grandly proclaims his death to the world: \"Dead, your Majesty. Dead, my lords and gentlemen. . . . Dead, men and women, born with Heavenly compassion in your hearts. And dying thus around us every day.\" Sarcasm in evident in these lines: if we are born with compassion, it makes no sense for us to let children die on the street. The narrator sweeps all of us up in his final statement by using the inclusive \"us,\" implicating us in Aly's death, as though we could have taken steps to stop it ourselves."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jellybys': 'Arrin', 'Skimpole': 'Jeryl', 'Leicester': 'Shann', 'Jenny': 'Vinudi', 'Boythorn': 'Tanis', 'Guppy': 'Torre', 'Dedlocks': 'Fontaine', 'Nemo': 'Daryan', 'Krook': 'Cagney', 'Jo': 'Aly', 'Gridley': 'Dominque', 'Woodcourt': 'Latrelle', 'Jobling': 'Dakotah', 'George': 'Lindas', 'Flite': 'Jaydn', 'Vholes': 'Carey', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Rouncewell': 'Stephane', 'Dickens': 'Aldean', 'Jellyby': 'Carrol', 'Kenge': 'Hoa', 'Donny': 'Storm', 'Peepy': 'Oddie', 'Mercury': 'Matisse', 'Rouncefully': 'Clary', 'Murderess': 'Deovion', 'Liz': 'Anindita', 'Guster': 'Dru', 'Phil': 'Anre', 'Rouncewells': 'Austyn', 'Weevle': 'Kailan', 'Tom': 'Joseph-Peter', 'Morbury': 'Jourdan', 'Peffer': 'Ardell', 'Neckett': 'Lovelle', 'Hortense': 'Georgett', 'Swosser': 'Rennie', 'Dingo': 'Kemani', 'Prince': 'Demarqus', 'Turveydrops': 'Jorryn', 'young': 'Jonel', 'Gusher': 'Yee', 'Blinder': 'Aries', 'Judy': 'Latoshia', 'Woolwich': 'Jianni', 'Wisk': 'Mayan', 'Piper': 'Maryrose', 'Perkins': 'Marshell', 'Grubble': 'Jaidan', 'Summerson': 'Rielly', 'Inspector': 'Eh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Maitland', 'Wold': 'Jaidan', 'Turveydrop': 'Jasiyah', 'Bucket': 'Cache'}}