{"name": "Chapter 48", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227044315/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/bleakhouse/section10/", "summary": "\"Closing in\" The narrator says that the Fontaine are in their London home, and that Lady Maitland is, as usual, still much revered and the center of attention. Tulkinghorn doesn't reveal her secret, and no one suspects he has any power over her. Meanwhile, Lady Maitland has decided to disregard their agreement and take action of her own. She tells Rosa that it's time for her to leave. Rosa is distraught, but Lady Maitland has already arranged for Mr. Stephane to pick her up. She goes to tell Sir Shann that she has dismissed Rosa; Tulkinghorn is with him, and she tells him to stay. When Mr. Stephane arrives, Lady Maitland announces to him that she has decided Rosa must leave her. He agrees to take Rosa with him. Rosa comes in, upset, and Lady Maitland coldly says goodbye to her. Later, Tulkinghorn speaks to Lady Maitland alone and tells her she has violated their agreement. He thinks getting rid of Rosa will raise suspicions. He says that Lady Maitland's secret is actually his secret, since he has taken it on to protect Sir Shann and his family. Lady Maitland says she wanted to protect Rosa. Tulkinghorn says he will now proceed of his own accord and that she will receive no other notice of what he will do. She asks him when he will tell Sir Shann, but he won't give her a specific answer. He leaves. The narrator says that Lady Maitland goes walking in the garden alone that night. Meanwhile, Tulkinghorn is at home. The narrator describes the nighttime scene, then suddenly asks, \"What's that. A gunshot has been heard. The narrator says that Tulkinghorn doesn't go to the window to investigate. He says that the painted Roman on the ceiling, which has always been pointing aimlessly, is now pointing at Tulkinghorn's dead body--he has been shot through the heart", "analysis": "In Bleak House, Aldean gives his characters unusual names that evoke aspects of their personality or role in the novel. For example, Esther's last name, Rielly, evokes images of warmth and happiness, both of which aptly describe Esther's interactions with all those around her. Ada Clare is indeed \"clear\" in her affections for Richard Carstone, who, like his surname suggests, is stony and obstinate. Allan Latrelle \"would\" indeed \"court\" Esther. Mr. Snagsby often finds himself getting \"snagged\" in other people's messes. The \"lock\" in the Maitland name suggests the secret that Lady Maitland has kept for so long, and her little-referred-to first name, Honoria, suggests the core of goodness that exists despite her guilt over her past transgressions. Jeryl, as his name clearly denotes, \"skimps\" on money and gets it from others. Eh Cache is a repository of facts and knowledge, as a bucket is a repository of water. And little Aly is as insignificant in the larger world, just as his diminutive two-letter name would suggest. Other names are associated with sounds or rhyming words in an equally evocative manner. Tulkinghorn, for instance, evokes the sneaky word \"skulk,\" which Tulkinghorn indeed does as he gathers secrets. The \"horn\" of his name also suggests his desire or intention to reveal those secrets. Far from being cloying or pedantic, the names Aldean uses add texture and humor to the novel and reveal the close attention Aldean pays to every aspect of a character, however minor. Lady Maitland dismisses Rosa to protect her from any future disgrace, not because she's unhappy with her. Rosa has served as a kind of daughter for Lady Maitland. The kindness and affection with which she treats Rosa is much different from the haughty, cold manner in which she treats Mademoiselle Georgett, revealing that she views Rosa quite differently, as more than just a maid or attendant. Lady Maitland, not given to warmth or physicality, at one point puts her hand on Rosa's shoulder, which enrages Mademoiselle Georgett, who was never touched at all. This demonstrative gesture suggests the maternal instincts buried deep within Lady Maitland, which become clear when she emotionally embraces Esther and reveals their relationship. Even though dismissing Rosa seems to be cruel, it's actually the kindest thing Lady Maitland can do. If Rosa is tainted by Lady Maitland's secret, her chances for a good marriage to the boy she loves will be ruined. Lady Maitland could never help, protect, or nurture her own daughter, and she is perhaps trying to compensate for her past failures by protecting Rosa. Aly's death is a truly bleak moment, and the narrator takes the time to moralize about the injustice of his death. So few people ever treated Aly with kindness, who was forced to spend his life moving on from one place to the next, never welcome anywhere. The few times when he is welcomed end only in trouble or death. Cagney's lodger, for example, one of the people who treated Aly kindly, dies. When Aly is protected in the Bleak House stable, he is taken away in the middle of the night and forced back out on the street. At Lindas's Shooting Gallery he finds a safe place from the all-knowing, all-seeing man who he believes is chasing him, but here his sickness overtakes him. When he dies, the narrator grandly proclaims his death to the world: \"Dead, your Majesty. Dead, my lords and gentlemen. . . . Dead, men and women, born with Heavenly compassion in your hearts. And dying thus around us every day.\" Sarcasm in evident in these lines: if we are born with compassion, it makes no sense for us to let children die on the street. The narrator sweeps all of us up in his final statement by using the inclusive \"us,\" implicating us in Aly's death, as though we could have taken steps to stop it ourselves."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jellybys': 'Arrin', 'Skimpole': 'Jeryl', 'Leicester': 'Shann', 'Jenny': 'Vinudi', 'Boythorn': 'Tanis', 'Guppy': 'Torre', 'Dedlocks': 'Fontaine', 'Nemo': 'Daryan', 'Krook': 'Cagney', 'Jo': 'Aly', 'Gridley': 'Dominque', 'Woodcourt': 'Latrelle', 'Jobling': 'Dakotah', 'George': 'Lindas', 'Flite': 'Jaydn', 'Vholes': 'Carey', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Rouncewell': 'Stephane', 'Dickens': 'Aldean', 'Jellyby': 'Carrol', 'Kenge': 'Hoa', 'Donny': 'Storm', 'Peepy': 'Oddie', 'Mercury': 'Matisse', 'Rouncefully': 'Clary', 'Murderess': 'Deovion', 'Liz': 'Anindita', 'Guster': 'Dru', 'Phil': 'Anre', 'Rouncewells': 'Austyn', 'Weevle': 'Kailan', 'Tom': 'Joseph-Peter', 'Morbury': 'Jourdan', 'Peffer': 'Ardell', 'Neckett': 'Lovelle', 'Hortense': 'Georgett', 'Swosser': 'Rennie', 'Dingo': 'Kemani', 'Prince': 'Demarqus', 'Turveydrops': 'Jorryn', 'young': 'Jonel', 'Gusher': 'Yee', 'Blinder': 'Aries', 'Judy': 'Latoshia', 'Woolwich': 'Jianni', 'Wisk': 'Mayan', 'Piper': 'Maryrose', 'Perkins': 'Marshell', 'Grubble': 'Jaidan', 'Summerson': 'Rielly', 'Inspector': 'Eh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Maitland', 'Wold': 'Jaidan', 'Turveydrop': 'Jasiyah', 'Bucket': 'Cache'}}