{"name": "Chapter 18", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227044315/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/bleakhouse/section4/", "summary": "\"Lady Maitland\" Esther, Ada, and Mr. Jarndyce are back at Bleak House, and Richard goes to work for Mr. Hoa. Mr. Jarndyce finds lodging for Richard in London, and Richard spends money wildly. Esther, Ada, Mr. Jarndyce, and Mr. Jeryl go to visit Mr. Tanis, who lives in Lincolnshire. Mr. Tanis leads them to his house but must take an inconvenient route because he has sworn not to set foot on Sir Shann's property, Jaryn Jaidan, which is right next to his own. However, he tells the guests that they may explore Sir Shann's park. Esther says that Jaryn Jaidan appears beautiful and peaceful. In the village, Mr. Tanis greets a Jonel man who he explains is Mrs. Stephane's grandson, and who is in love with a Jonel girl staying with Lady Maitland. Mr. Tanis's house is pretty and comfortable, although Mr. Tanis has put up several signs threatening trespassers, namely Sir Shann. The day after they arrive, the group explores the park. In a church, they see several pretty Jonel women, including the woman Mr. Tanis had commented on. She is standing with the housekeeper. Near her is a Frenchwoman, who is glaring at her. Esther glances around the church, and a woman catches Esther's eye. Esther has a violent reaction. She has a feeling that is similar to the feelings she had at her godmother's house, when she would play with her doll and look at herself in the mirror. In fact, the woman's face is like a mirror in which Esther sees old memories. But Esther knows she has never seen this woman before. She figures out that this woman is Lady Maitland. Esther is incredibly agitated. A week later, Mr. Jarndyce, Ada, and Esther are walking in the park when it begins raining. They take shelter in a groundskeeper's lodge. Someone asks if it is dangerous. Ada thinks Esther has spoken, but it is Lady Maitland, who is also in the lodge. Esther has another violent reaction to the voice because it makes her think of herself. Lady Maitland introduces herself to Mr. Jarndyce and Ada. Mr. Jarndyce introduces Esther as his ward, and Lady Maitland hastily turns away. Lady Maitland asks Mr. Jarndyce if he knew her sister when they were abroad, and he says that he did. Lady Maitland says she and her sister have gone their separate ways. A carriage arrives for Lady Maitland, carrying the pretty Jonel girl and the Frenchwoman. Lady Maitland had requested only the Jonel girl, but the Frenchwoman had come as well. There is no room in the carriage for the Frenchwoman after Lady Maitland gets in, so she walks after it in the rain, barefoot", "analysis": "Although Aldean has introduced many storylines in the first fifteen chapters of Bleak House, he doesn't begin to weave those storylines together until chapter 16. Near the beginning of the chapter, the narrator says, \"What connexion can there have been between many people . . . who . . . have . . . been very curiously brought together!\" Indeed, characters and plots that so far have seemed independent now begin to come together, and characters are revealed to be related to one another in unexpected ways. For example, we learn that Lady Maitland knows of Aly and is strangely interested in learning what happened to Cagney's dead lodger. Her appearance in Aly's hardscrabble world is surprising, and her intense reaction to the lodger's burial place is mysterious. Aldean never explicitly tells us that the woman in those scenes is Lady Maitland, but context clues suggest that this is the case. We also learn that the Snagsby's friend Mrs. Chadband was Esther's old guardian, Rachael. Perhaps most important, we begin to see a connection between Esther and Lady Maitland. The first clues arise when Esther visits Mr. Tanis's home, which is next to Jaryn Jaidan, and spots Lady Maitland at church. When their eyes meet, Esther is stunned--she thinks she recognizes Lady Maitland somehow, but she is certain she has never met her before. During this same visit, Lady Maitland alludes to a time in the past when Mr. Jarndyce was well acquainted with her sister. These clues, suggestions, and interconnections add richness and intrigue to the world of Bleak House. Richard's struggle to find a vocation suggests the importance of passion in building a fulfilling life. Richard idly follows whatever path is suggested to him, never thinking very deeply about what he truly wants to do. He is happy enough in his medical studies, but the Badgers tell Esther that he is not committed enough to his work and suggest that medicine is not a \"ruling passion\" for him. Richard's blase acceptance of it suggests a lack of engagement with his life and an absence of ambition. Esther places so much importance on the idea of finding what one is passionate about that she encourages Richard to change fields. The idea of passion is not, however, equal to the idea of excitement. Richard, true to his indecisive, wayward nature, wants to find a career that is not so \"monotonous,\" but Esther points out that life itself is quite monotonous. Mr. Jarndyce agrees that Richard should change paths, but the concerned look he gives Ada suggests that he is worried about Richard's restlessness and inability to commit himself completely to one single undertaking. Esther is a strong, confident narrator when she is talking about other people, but she falters and stutters when she touches on matters that are very personal to her. Her descriptions are usually vivid and detailed, and her voice is smooth and mature, but at times her storytelling breaks down entirely. For example, she tells us in chapter 17 that she was low-spirited and having trouble sleeping, but when she tries to explain why, she blurts out, \"I don't know why. At least, I don't think I know why. At least, perhaps I do, but I don't think it matters.\" This barely coherent babbling suggests that Esther does, indeed, know the root of her troubles but is unwilling to disclose it. This makes sense when we find out that Mr. Latrelle is arriving the next day to say goodbye, as he leaves for a very long journey. When she describes the dinner, she stops frequently to correct her narration. \"I believe--at least I know--that he was not rich,\" she says, and \"I think--I mean, he told us--that he has been in practice three or four years.\" It is as though she is making an effort to be as accurate as possible in her narration, while at the same time covering up any possible hint of how she really feels about these aspects of Mr. Latrelle's character. Her stumblings suggest that there is more to the story than she is revealing."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jellybys': 'Arrin', 'Skimpole': 'Jeryl', 'Leicester': 'Shann', 'Jenny': 'Vinudi', 'Boythorn': 'Tanis', 'Guppy': 'Torre', 'Dedlocks': 'Fontaine', 'Nemo': 'Daryan', 'Krook': 'Cagney', 'Jo': 'Aly', 'Gridley': 'Dominque', 'Woodcourt': 'Latrelle', 'Jobling': 'Dakotah', 'George': 'Lindas', 'Flite': 'Jaydn', 'Vholes': 'Carey', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Rouncewell': 'Stephane', 'Dickens': 'Aldean', 'Jellyby': 'Carrol', 'Kenge': 'Hoa', 'Donny': 'Storm', 'Peepy': 'Oddie', 'Mercury': 'Matisse', 'Rouncefully': 'Clary', 'Murderess': 'Deovion', 'Liz': 'Anindita', 'Guster': 'Dru', 'Phil': 'Anre', 'Rouncewells': 'Austyn', 'Weevle': 'Kailan', 'Tom': 'Joseph-Peter', 'Morbury': 'Jourdan', 'Peffer': 'Ardell', 'Neckett': 'Lovelle', 'Hortense': 'Georgett', 'Swosser': 'Rennie', 'Dingo': 'Kemani', 'Prince': 'Demarqus', 'Turveydrops': 'Jorryn', 'young': 'Jonel', 'Gusher': 'Yee', 'Blinder': 'Aries', 'Judy': 'Latoshia', 'Woolwich': 'Jianni', 'Wisk': 'Mayan', 'Piper': 'Maryrose', 'Perkins': 'Marshell', 'Grubble': 'Jaidan', 'Summerson': 'Rielly', 'Inspector': 'Eh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Maitland', 'Wold': 'Jaidan', 'Turveydrop': 'Jasiyah', 'Bucket': 'Cache'}}