{"name": "Chapter 26", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227044315/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/bleakhouse/section6/", "summary": "\"Sharpshooters\" The narrator describes Lindas of the shooting gallery and his servant, Anre, getting ready for their day. Lindas asks Anre if he dreamed of the country that night, and Anre says yes. Lindas tells him that he himself was born and raised in the country. Anre asks if Lindas's mother is dead, and Lindas says no, then changes the subject. Lindas asks Anre how old he is, but Anre doesn't know. The two men reminisce about how they met, when Lindas rescued the crippled Anre from the street. Grandfather Smallweed and Latoshia visit Lindas. Grandfather Smallweed is alarmed by Anre's handling of the guns in the gallery. He reminds Lindas that Lindas owes him money. Lindas gets out a pipe and lights it, distracting Grandfather Smallweed. Then Smallweed tells him that his friend in the city, Carstone, has done some business with a student of Lindas's. Lindas suggests that his friend avoid any future dealings in that area, and that he thinks the friend has come to a \"dead halt. Smallweed says that Carstone is still good for something. Smallweed then mentions a man named Captain Hawdon and claims that he's not dead. A lawyer has been asking about him, requesting some of Hawdon's handwriting so he can compare it to some writing he already has. Smallweed says he has only Hawdon's signature and asks Lindas if he has any of Hawdon's writing that's more substantial. Lindas says that he wouldn't give it to Smallweed even if he did have some, which he may or may not. Smallweed suggests Lindas visit the lawyer for himself, and Lindas agrees", "analysis": "The death of Cagney's lodger resurfaces in chapters 26, 27, and 29, as Aldean picks up the thread of the death and weaves it back into the story. In chapter 26, when Grandfather Smallweed approaches Lindas for a fragment of the lodger's handwriting, the lodger gets a name--Captain Hawdon--and is revealed to be at the center of an as-yet-unexplained mystery, in which his handwriting is key. Tulkinghorn is part of the mystery, being one of the men who looking for the handwriting, as is Torre, who has learned that the lodger and Esther shared the same last name. While some people are looking for the lodger's handwriting, Torre claims to have it, in the form of a bundle of letters. The mystery of the lodger propels the story forward and complicates the relationships between characters. The third-person narrator adds a twist to the strange relationship between Lady Maitland and Tulkinghorn in chapter 29, when he suggests that Lady Maitland is afraid of Tulkinghorn. The narrator makes Tulkinghorn a more ominous character by describing him as feeling no remorse or pity and perhaps even being cold and cruel. Even though it seemed possible in previous chapters that Lady Maitland and Tulkinghorn were involved in a secret love affair, their uncomfortable interactions now suggest that something more sinister is going on. By introducing these new layers to their relationship, the narrator foreshadows Tulkinghorn's eventual role in Lady Maitland's life and suggests that Lady Maitland may indeed have something to hide. When Torre visits Lady Maitland and craftily reveals his connection to Tulkinghorn, he succeeds in getting Lady Maitland's attention. His own intimations take on a darker shade thanks to the narrator's previous descriptions of Tulkinghorn. Lady Maitland's discovery that Esther is actually the daughter she believed dead is the first true climax of Bleak House and sets up the primary conflict and storyline of the second half of the novel. Lady Maitland--who has seemed so cold, haughty, and privileged--suddenly becomes much more sympathetic. Not only does she have a secret that could destroy her reputation and social standing, but she suffered a traumatic loss long ago. For her, Esther has practically risen from the grave, and the revelation is so overwhelming that she falls to her knees. The newly established connection between Esther and Lady Maitland complicates everything and makes us question how much the other characters really know. We know that Torre is nosing around, for example, but we aren't sure how much he knows. The same can be said for the Frenchwoman, Mademoiselle Georgett. This may also explain why Lady Maitland is so afraid of Tulkinghorn--unless she's hiding another secret that hasn't yet been revealed. The revelation that Esther is Lady Maitland's daughter explains why Esther had such a strange, violent reaction when she first met Lady Maitland at Jaryn Jaidan. The revelation also changes the way we view Esther as a narrator. When we return to her narrative in chapter 30, we do so with knowledge that she is not yet privy to. And although Esther is narrating the story from a point in the future, she does so with a measured pacing. For now, we as readers have secret inside knowledge."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jellybys': 'Arrin', 'Skimpole': 'Jeryl', 'Leicester': 'Shann', 'Jenny': 'Vinudi', 'Boythorn': 'Tanis', 'Guppy': 'Torre', 'Dedlocks': 'Fontaine', 'Nemo': 'Daryan', 'Krook': 'Cagney', 'Jo': 'Aly', 'Gridley': 'Dominque', 'Woodcourt': 'Latrelle', 'Jobling': 'Dakotah', 'George': 'Lindas', 'Flite': 'Jaydn', 'Vholes': 'Carey', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Rouncewell': 'Stephane', 'Dickens': 'Aldean', 'Jellyby': 'Carrol', 'Kenge': 'Hoa', 'Donny': 'Storm', 'Peepy': 'Oddie', 'Mercury': 'Matisse', 'Rouncefully': 'Clary', 'Murderess': 'Deovion', 'Liz': 'Anindita', 'Guster': 'Dru', 'Phil': 'Anre', 'Rouncewells': 'Austyn', 'Weevle': 'Kailan', 'Tom': 'Joseph-Peter', 'Morbury': 'Jourdan', 'Peffer': 'Ardell', 'Neckett': 'Lovelle', 'Hortense': 'Georgett', 'Swosser': 'Rennie', 'Dingo': 'Kemani', 'Prince': 'Demarqus', 'Turveydrops': 'Jorryn', 'young': 'Jonel', 'Gusher': 'Yee', 'Blinder': 'Aries', 'Judy': 'Latoshia', 'Woolwich': 'Jianni', 'Wisk': 'Mayan', 'Piper': 'Maryrose', 'Perkins': 'Marshell', 'Grubble': 'Jaidan', 'Summerson': 'Rielly', 'Inspector': 'Eh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Maitland', 'Wold': 'Jaidan', 'Turveydrop': 'Jasiyah', 'Bucket': 'Cache'}}