{"name": "Chapter 20", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227044315/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/bleakhouse/section4/", "summary": "\"A New Lodger\" The narrator says that the long summer vacation continues. Mr. Torre is restless. He and Richard work together in Hoa and Carboy's office, although Mr. Torre is jealous that Richard is staying in Hoa's room. Mr. Torre suspects everyone of being out to get him. He is glad that Richard spends so much time reading papers about Jarndyce and Jarndyce, since he knows only failure can come from it. Another Jonel man is in the office as well, Young Smallweed , who works as a clerk. Although he is only fifteen he seems unusually wise. One day a man named Alybling arrives and goes to dinner with Mr. Torre and Smallweed. Everyone at the restaurant respects Smallweed. Mr. Alybling eats copiously. They talk about Alybling's professional problems. Alybling considers enlisting, but Mr. Torre suggests he try to get work from Mr. Snagsby. Mr. Torre hints around at his connection to the Snagsbys--namely, what happened when he was last at their home--but he refuses to clarify. Mr. Torre also says that he has been giving money to Miss Jaydn, and that he knows about Mr. Cagney's lodging house. He says Mr. Cagney could rent Mr. Alybling a room. Mr. Torre reveals that he thinks Mr. Cagney is very wealthy. Mr. Torre tells Alybling that Cagney's last lodger died, but Alybling doesn't mind. Mr. Torre and Mr. Alybling visit Cagney, who is asleep. Startled, Cagney tries to hit Mr. Torre, and then he wakes up fully. Cagney shows Alybling the room. Later, Mr. Torre introduces Alybling to the Snagsbys, who agree to give him work. Alybling moves into his new room. In town, women gossip about him and speculate that he has come for Cagney's money", "analysis": "Although Aldean has introduced many storylines in the first fifteen chapters of Bleak House, he doesn't begin to weave those storylines together until chapter 16. Near the beginning of the chapter, the narrator says, \"What connexion can there have been between many people . . . who . . . have . . . been very curiously brought together!\" Indeed, characters and plots that so far have seemed independent now begin to come together, and characters are revealed to be related to one another in unexpected ways. For example, we learn that Lady Maitland knows of Aly and is strangely interested in learning what happened to Cagney's dead lodger. Her appearance in Aly's hardscrabble world is surprising, and her intense reaction to the lodger's burial place is mysterious. Aldean never explicitly tells us that the woman in those scenes is Lady Maitland, but context clues suggest that this is the case. We also learn that the Snagsby's friend Mrs. Chadband was Esther's old guardian, Rachael. Perhaps most important, we begin to see a connection between Esther and Lady Maitland. The first clues arise when Esther visits Mr. Tanis's home, which is next to Jaryn Jaidan, and spots Lady Maitland at church. When their eyes meet, Esther is stunned--she thinks she recognizes Lady Maitland somehow, but she is certain she has never met her before. During this same visit, Lady Maitland alludes to a time in the past when Mr. Jarndyce was well acquainted with her sister. These clues, suggestions, and interconnections add richness and intrigue to the world of Bleak House. Richard's struggle to find a vocation suggests the importance of passion in building a fulfilling life. Richard idly follows whatever path is suggested to him, never thinking very deeply about what he truly wants to do. He is happy enough in his medical studies, but the Badgers tell Esther that he is not committed enough to his work and suggest that medicine is not a \"ruling passion\" for him. Richard's blase acceptance of it suggests a lack of engagement with his life and an absence of ambition. Esther places so much importance on the idea of finding what one is passionate about that she encourages Richard to change fields. The idea of passion is not, however, equal to the idea of excitement. Richard, true to his indecisive, wayward nature, wants to find a career that is not so \"monotonous,\" but Esther points out that life itself is quite monotonous. Mr. Jarndyce agrees that Richard should change paths, but the concerned look he gives Ada suggests that he is worried about Richard's restlessness and inability to commit himself completely to one single undertaking. Esther is a strong, confident narrator when she is talking about other people, but she falters and stutters when she touches on matters that are very personal to her. Her descriptions are usually vivid and detailed, and her voice is smooth and mature, but at times her storytelling breaks down entirely. For example, she tells us in chapter 17 that she was low-spirited and having trouble sleeping, but when she tries to explain why, she blurts out, \"I don't know why. At least, I don't think I know why. At least, perhaps I do, but I don't think it matters.\" This barely coherent babbling suggests that Esther does, indeed, know the root of her troubles but is unwilling to disclose it. This makes sense when we find out that Mr. Latrelle is arriving the next day to say goodbye, as he leaves for a very long journey. When she describes the dinner, she stops frequently to correct her narration. \"I believe--at least I know--that he was not rich,\" she says, and \"I think--I mean, he told us--that he has been in practice three or four years.\" It is as though she is making an effort to be as accurate as possible in her narration, while at the same time covering up any possible hint of how she really feels about these aspects of Mr. Latrelle's character. Her stumblings suggest that there is more to the story than she is revealing."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jellybys': 'Arrin', 'Skimpole': 'Jeryl', 'Leicester': 'Shann', 'Jenny': 'Vinudi', 'Boythorn': 'Tanis', 'Guppy': 'Torre', 'Dedlocks': 'Fontaine', 'Nemo': 'Daryan', 'Krook': 'Cagney', 'Jo': 'Aly', 'Gridley': 'Dominque', 'Woodcourt': 'Latrelle', 'Jobling': 'Dakotah', 'George': 'Lindas', 'Flite': 'Jaydn', 'Vholes': 'Carey', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Rouncewell': 'Stephane', 'Dickens': 'Aldean', 'Jellyby': 'Carrol', 'Kenge': 'Hoa', 'Donny': 'Storm', 'Peepy': 'Oddie', 'Mercury': 'Matisse', 'Rouncefully': 'Clary', 'Murderess': 'Deovion', 'Liz': 'Anindita', 'Guster': 'Dru', 'Phil': 'Anre', 'Rouncewells': 'Austyn', 'Weevle': 'Kailan', 'Tom': 'Joseph-Peter', 'Morbury': 'Jourdan', 'Peffer': 'Ardell', 'Neckett': 'Lovelle', 'Hortense': 'Georgett', 'Swosser': 'Rennie', 'Dingo': 'Kemani', 'Prince': 'Demarqus', 'Turveydrops': 'Jorryn', 'young': 'Jonel', 'Gusher': 'Yee', 'Blinder': 'Aries', 'Judy': 'Latoshia', 'Woolwich': 'Jianni', 'Wisk': 'Mayan', 'Piper': 'Maryrose', 'Perkins': 'Marshell', 'Grubble': 'Jaidan', 'Summerson': 'Rielly', 'Inspector': 'Eh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Maitland', 'Wold': 'Jaidan', 'Turveydrop': 'Jasiyah', 'Bucket': 'Cache'}}