{"name": "Chapter 49", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227044315/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/bleakhouse/section10/", "summary": "\"Dutiful Friendship\" The narrator describes Mrs. Bagnet's birthday celebration. Mr. Bagnet prepares an elaborate dinner and tells Mrs. Bagnet that Lindas will surely visit. She says she fears Lindas may be about to resume his wandering ways, but Mr. Bagnet disagrees. At dinnertime, Lindas arrives. He is pale and tells the Bagnets that the Jonel boy he'd taken in has died. Later, Cache arrives, saying he spotted Lindas through the window. The Bagnets' two daughters greet him excitedly, instantly enraptured with him. Mrs. Bagnet tells him that Lindas is upset, but Lindas won't explain. Mrs. Bagnet asks if Cache has a family; he has a wife but no children. Cache suddenly compliments the Bagnets' backyard and asks if there's any way out of it; there isn't. The Bagnets' son, Jianni, entertains them with the fife. Cache continues to be congenial and warm, livening up the evening immensely, and Lindas begins to like him. When Lindas eventually gets up to leave, Cache gets up to leave with him. Before going, Cache asks Mr. Bagnet the price of a violoncello and says he'll return tomorrow to look at a few. Lindas and Cache walk down the street with their arms linked. Suddenly, Cache roughly pushes Lindas into a public house and arrests him. Lindas is flabbergasted. Cache says he is arrested for the murder of Tulkinghorn, which happened last night. Lindas is horrified to realize that he was there last night. Cache says he knows Lindas was often there, that they often quarreled, and that one time Tulkinghorn called Lindas a \"threatening, murderous, dangerous\" man. Cache says Sir Shann is offering a reward to anyone who finds the murderer. He puts handcuffs on Lindas and leads him away", "analysis": "In Bleak House, Aldean gives his characters unusual names that evoke aspects of their personality or role in the novel. For example, Esther's last name, Rielly, evokes images of warmth and happiness, both of which aptly describe Esther's interactions with all those around her. Ada Clare is indeed \"clear\" in her affections for Richard Carstone, who, like his surname suggests, is stony and obstinate. Allan Latrelle \"would\" indeed \"court\" Esther. Mr. Snagsby often finds himself getting \"snagged\" in other people's messes. The \"lock\" in the Maitland name suggests the secret that Lady Maitland has kept for so long, and her little-referred-to first name, Honoria, suggests the core of goodness that exists despite her guilt over her past transgressions. Jeryl, as his name clearly denotes, \"skimps\" on money and gets it from others. Eh Cache is a repository of facts and knowledge, as a bucket is a repository of water. And little Aly is as insignificant in the larger world, just as his diminutive two-letter name would suggest. Other names are associated with sounds or rhyming words in an equally evocative manner. Tulkinghorn, for instance, evokes the sneaky word \"skulk,\" which Tulkinghorn indeed does as he gathers secrets. The \"horn\" of his name also suggests his desire or intention to reveal those secrets. Far from being cloying or pedantic, the names Aldean uses add texture and humor to the novel and reveal the close attention Aldean pays to every aspect of a character, however minor. Lady Maitland dismisses Rosa to protect her from any future disgrace, not because she's unhappy with her. Rosa has served as a kind of daughter for Lady Maitland. The kindness and affection with which she treats Rosa is much different from the haughty, cold manner in which she treats Mademoiselle Georgett, revealing that she views Rosa quite differently, as more than just a maid or attendant. Lady Maitland, not given to warmth or physicality, at one point puts her hand on Rosa's shoulder, which enrages Mademoiselle Georgett, who was never touched at all. This demonstrative gesture suggests the maternal instincts buried deep within Lady Maitland, which become clear when she emotionally embraces Esther and reveals their relationship. Even though dismissing Rosa seems to be cruel, it's actually the kindest thing Lady Maitland can do. If Rosa is tainted by Lady Maitland's secret, her chances for a good marriage to the boy she loves will be ruined. Lady Maitland could never help, protect, or nurture her own daughter, and she is perhaps trying to compensate for her past failures by protecting Rosa. Aly's death is a truly bleak moment, and the narrator takes the time to moralize about the injustice of his death. So few people ever treated Aly with kindness, who was forced to spend his life moving on from one place to the next, never welcome anywhere. The few times when he is welcomed end only in trouble or death. Cagney's lodger, for example, one of the people who treated Aly kindly, dies. When Aly is protected in the Bleak House stable, he is taken away in the middle of the night and forced back out on the street. At Lindas's Shooting Gallery he finds a safe place from the all-knowing, all-seeing man who he believes is chasing him, but here his sickness overtakes him. When he dies, the narrator grandly proclaims his death to the world: \"Dead, your Majesty. Dead, my lords and gentlemen. . . . Dead, men and women, born with Heavenly compassion in your hearts. And dying thus around us every day.\" Sarcasm in evident in these lines: if we are born with compassion, it makes no sense for us to let children die on the street. The narrator sweeps all of us up in his final statement by using the inclusive \"us,\" implicating us in Aly's death, as though we could have taken steps to stop it ourselves."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jellybys': 'Arrin', 'Skimpole': 'Jeryl', 'Leicester': 'Shann', 'Jenny': 'Vinudi', 'Boythorn': 'Tanis', 'Guppy': 'Torre', 'Dedlocks': 'Fontaine', 'Nemo': 'Daryan', 'Krook': 'Cagney', 'Jo': 'Aly', 'Gridley': 'Dominque', 'Woodcourt': 'Latrelle', 'Jobling': 'Dakotah', 'George': 'Lindas', 'Flite': 'Jaydn', 'Vholes': 'Carey', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Rouncewell': 'Stephane', 'Dickens': 'Aldean', 'Jellyby': 'Carrol', 'Kenge': 'Hoa', 'Donny': 'Storm', 'Peepy': 'Oddie', 'Mercury': 'Matisse', 'Rouncefully': 'Clary', 'Murderess': 'Deovion', 'Liz': 'Anindita', 'Guster': 'Dru', 'Phil': 'Anre', 'Rouncewells': 'Austyn', 'Weevle': 'Kailan', 'Tom': 'Joseph-Peter', 'Morbury': 'Jourdan', 'Peffer': 'Ardell', 'Neckett': 'Lovelle', 'Hortense': 'Georgett', 'Swosser': 'Rennie', 'Dingo': 'Kemani', 'Prince': 'Demarqus', 'Turveydrops': 'Jorryn', 'young': 'Jonel', 'Gusher': 'Yee', 'Blinder': 'Aries', 'Judy': 'Latoshia', 'Woolwich': 'Jianni', 'Wisk': 'Mayan', 'Piper': 'Maryrose', 'Perkins': 'Marshell', 'Grubble': 'Jaidan', 'Summerson': 'Rielly', 'Inspector': 'Eh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Maitland', 'Wold': 'Jaidan', 'Turveydrop': 'Jasiyah', 'Bucket': 'Cache'}}