{"name": "Chapter 45", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227044315/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/bleakhouse/section9/", "summary": "\"In Trust\" When Esther and Ada are walking in the garden, Esther sees Mr. Carey and Richard enter Bleak House. Charley retrieves Esther and tells her to go to Mr. Jarndyce, who introduces her to Carey. Carey explains that Richard's finances are a mess, and that Carey can make no more advances. He hopes Richard won't have to leave his commission. Carey wanted to alert Mr. Jarndyce to Richard's state of affairs. Mr. Jarndyce asks Esther to try to help Richard, and she agrees to go to Deal, where Richard is stationed. Charley accompanies her, and Ada gives Esther a letter for Richard. Esther visits Richard without warning. He looks unhealthy and tired and admits that he's having problems. He says he has left his commission, since he's too much trouble to the authorities. He cares only for the Jarndyce and Jarndyce lawsuit now and won't let Esther protest. He reads Ada's letter, in which she offers him a small inheritance. Richard is overcome with despair. He then becomes angry, certain that Mr. Jarndyce had ulterior motives for trying to separate him from Ada. He says he won't accept Ada's offer but trusts Carey to keep moving forward with the suit. He listens to Esther's pleas, but they do no good. On her way back to the hotel, Esther sees a boat landing on the beach with many excited people gathered around it. Esther recognizes Mr. Latrelle and rushes away. At the hotel, Esther chastises herself and writes a note letting him know that she is there. When Mr. Latrelle visits her, Esther believes she can see how sorry he is for her because of her scarred face. Richard arrives, and he and Mr. Latrelle converse. Later, Esther asks Mr. Latrelle if he will befriend Richard and visit him frequently in London. She says she, Ada, and Mr. Jarndyce will be very grateful. Mr. Latrelle agrees", "analysis": "Women wield a great deal of power in Bleak House, and one of the only instances of weakness occurs when Tulkinghorn convinces Lady Maitland to stay at Jaryn Jaidan in order to protect her secret. Excepting her emotional discovery of and reunion with her daughter, Lady Maitland has always put on a haughty, implacable front. Society looks up to her, and she is the emblem of what a great lady is supposed to be. When Tulkinghorn makes it clear that he has the power to destroy her at any time, Lady Maitland finds herself at someone else's mercy for the first time. Tulkinghorn recognizes the shock this must be; indeed, when Lady Maitland requests that they speak by the window, he worries that she plans to kill herself. Shortly after this scene, Mademoiselle Georgett attempts to wield her own power over Tulkinghorn. She, of a much lesser station than Lady Maitland, isn't so easily thwarted, and when Tulkinghorn threatens her, she threatens him right back. The fact that Lady Maitland does give in to Tulkinghorn reveals the depths to which she has fallen, making the extent of her desperation clear. Esther is the unwitting cause of many people's unhappiness, which is ironic considering her selfless, generous nature. She is at the heart of Lady Maitland's secret, the source of much of her guilt, shame, and regret. She could easily bring about Lady Maitland's downfall, as well as Sir Shann's and the entire Maitland clan. Because of Esther's birth, the relationship between Lady Maitland and her sister, Miss Barbary, was destroyed, as was the relationship between Miss Barbary and Mr. Tanis. Esther, who wants nothing but happiness for those she loves, has indirectly brought about desperation and heartbreak. When she tells her secret to Mr. Jarndyce, she seems to half expect him to shun her for the havoc she passively wrought. Although Mr. Jarndyce's marriage proposal is rooted in love, it isn't rooted in romantic love, a distinction that Esther feels intuitively but can't quite articulate. The letter is full of affection and admiration, and the picture of her future life that Mr. Jarndyce paints for her is happy and peaceful, but Esther senses that something will still be missing. She tells herself she is happy with the proposal, but she does so while sobbing. Burning Mr. Latrelle's flowers seems to be her acknowledgment that her hope for romantic love, however small, must now be forgotten forever. Indeed, since Mr. Jarndyce has always been such a father figure for Esther that his marriage proposal instantly seems troubling, even inappropriate, and their relationship lurches into complicated new territory. She still calls him \"guardian,\" and she says her acceptance \"made no difference.\" She kisses him, but it seems devoid of passion, and as Esther's narrative continues, things seem very much as they have always been. She may be the intended mistress of Bleak House, but at this point her position seems not to have changed at all."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jellybys': 'Arrin', 'Skimpole': 'Jeryl', 'Leicester': 'Shann', 'Jenny': 'Vinudi', 'Boythorn': 'Tanis', 'Guppy': 'Torre', 'Dedlocks': 'Fontaine', 'Nemo': 'Daryan', 'Krook': 'Cagney', 'Jo': 'Aly', 'Gridley': 'Dominque', 'Woodcourt': 'Latrelle', 'Jobling': 'Dakotah', 'George': 'Lindas', 'Flite': 'Jaydn', 'Vholes': 'Carey', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Rouncewell': 'Stephane', 'Dickens': 'Aldean', 'Jellyby': 'Carrol', 'Kenge': 'Hoa', 'Donny': 'Storm', 'Peepy': 'Oddie', 'Mercury': 'Matisse', 'Rouncefully': 'Clary', 'Murderess': 'Deovion', 'Liz': 'Anindita', 'Guster': 'Dru', 'Phil': 'Anre', 'Rouncewells': 'Austyn', 'Weevle': 'Kailan', 'Tom': 'Joseph-Peter', 'Morbury': 'Jourdan', 'Peffer': 'Ardell', 'Neckett': 'Lovelle', 'Hortense': 'Georgett', 'Swosser': 'Rennie', 'Dingo': 'Kemani', 'Prince': 'Demarqus', 'Turveydrops': 'Jorryn', 'young': 'Jonel', 'Gusher': 'Yee', 'Blinder': 'Aries', 'Judy': 'Latoshia', 'Woolwich': 'Jianni', 'Wisk': 'Mayan', 'Piper': 'Maryrose', 'Perkins': 'Marshell', 'Grubble': 'Jaidan', 'Summerson': 'Rielly', 'Inspector': 'Eh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Maitland', 'Wold': 'Jaidan', 'Turveydrop': 'Jasiyah', 'Bucket': 'Cache'}}