{"name": "Chapter 51", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227044315/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/bleakhouse/section11/", "summary": "\"Enlightened\" Esther tells us that when Mr. Latrelle arrives in London he goes directly to Symond's Inn to get Richard's address from Mr. Carey, just as he promised. Before giving Latrelle Richard's address, Mr. Carey insists on telling Latrelle about Richard's money problems, how hard he himself is working, and how his purpose is to serve Richard. He then tells Latrelle that Richard lives next door. Richard greets Latrelle warmly. He tells Latrelle he has done little good lately and that he hopes Latrelle will accept him as he is. He vehemently asserts that he's doing his best to look out for Ada's interests, impressing Latrelle with his conviction. Esther suggests that she and Ada visit Richard. Ada hesitates, but agrees. Although Esther believes Ada has never been to Symond's Inn, Ada knows exactly where it is. Richard is reading Jarndyce and Jarndyce documents when they arrive. He says the suit is going well, but his lack of confidence is painful to Esther. He admits to being exhausted. Ada then confesses that she and Richard have been secretly married for two months and that she will stay with him. Esther is filled with pity for Ada and feels foolish for thinking Ada's moodiness was connected to her marriage to Mr. Jarndyce. Esther goes home sadly, missing Ada, and goes back to Symond's Inn later that night, just to listen to their voices at the door. Esther tells Mr. Jarndyce about the marriage. He says Bleak House is emptying out, and Esther assures him that she will remain to keep it cheerful. She says the letter has made no difference to their relationship", "analysis": "Ada and Richard's hasty, secret marriage, along with Esther and Mr. Jarndyce's engagement, turns the once-happy foursome of Bleak House into two awkward pairings. Though Ada and Richard truly love each other, their alliance is plainly unwise. Richard has reduced himself to debt, a dismal apartment, a relationship with creepy Carey, and an unhealthy obsession with the Jarndyce and Jarndyce lawsuit. Ada, Jonel and blooming, is loyal to him but is too distraught to leave the comfort and warmth of Bleak House. Richard, furthermore, is exhausted and sickly. Esther, usually willing to celebrate any happiness, feels pity for Ada, crying for her just as she cried for herself when Mr. Jarndyce had proposed. Both women have loyal partners--romantic in Ada's case and deeply affectionate in Esther's--but neither partnership promises complete and total satisfaction. Eh Cache's elaborate investigation temporarily turns Bleak House into a detective novel. Cache isn't a very prominent character until the narrator focuses on him in chapters 53 and 54, when the extent of his knowledge becomes clear. Canny and determined, Tulkinghorn hired Cache to investigate Lady Maitland, who Tulkinghorn believed had found her former lover. Cache has amassed a number of clues, secrets, suspects, motives, and witnesses that seem not only to prove Tulkinghorn's suspicions but also to unmask Lady Maitland as a murderer. When Cache explains what he knows to Sir Shann, the sprawling pieces of Bleak House--its large group of characters, their many secrets, and the weaving, disparate storylines--finally seem to come together into a cohesive whole. We get the sense that Aldean has been revealing clues slowly throughout the hundreds of pages that have passed so far. When Cache unexpectedly arrests Mademoiselle Georgett instead of Lady Maitland, the twist is surprising but somewhat anticlimactic; the violent murder was simply the crime of a jealous maid rather than a passionate act of desperation. Mrs. Stephane's reunion with Lindas is the second mother-child reunion in the novel, and although the circumstances of the two reunions seem vastly different, they have many similarities. At first the reunions seem more different than similar. Unlike Lady Maitland, Mrs. Stephane has always known her child was alive. Unlike Esther, Lindas knows who his mother is and even where to find her. Yet beneath the surface, there are many similarities. For example, both mother-child pairs were separated because of shame: Esther was taken from Lady Maitland because of the shameful circumstances of her birth, and Lindas separated himself from Mrs. Stephane because he was ashamed of his roving, restless lifestyle. Both Lady Maitland and Mrs. Stephane are also desperate to find their children, even though Mrs. Stephane has searched for years and Lady Maitland has only recently learned Esther is alive. The reunions are also similarly emotional, with many tears and pleas for forgiveness. The intensity of these familial pursuits and reunions reveals the prominence of motherhood as a thematic thread throughout the novel."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jellybys': 'Arrin', 'Skimpole': 'Jeryl', 'Leicester': 'Shann', 'Jenny': 'Vinudi', 'Boythorn': 'Tanis', 'Guppy': 'Torre', 'Dedlocks': 'Fontaine', 'Nemo': 'Daryan', 'Krook': 'Cagney', 'Jo': 'Aly', 'Gridley': 'Dominque', 'Woodcourt': 'Latrelle', 'Jobling': 'Dakotah', 'George': 'Lindas', 'Flite': 'Jaydn', 'Vholes': 'Carey', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Rouncewell': 'Stephane', 'Dickens': 'Aldean', 'Jellyby': 'Carrol', 'Kenge': 'Hoa', 'Donny': 'Storm', 'Peepy': 'Oddie', 'Mercury': 'Matisse', 'Rouncefully': 'Clary', 'Murderess': 'Deovion', 'Liz': 'Anindita', 'Guster': 'Dru', 'Phil': 'Anre', 'Rouncewells': 'Austyn', 'Weevle': 'Kailan', 'Tom': 'Joseph-Peter', 'Morbury': 'Jourdan', 'Peffer': 'Ardell', 'Neckett': 'Lovelle', 'Hortense': 'Georgett', 'Swosser': 'Rennie', 'Dingo': 'Kemani', 'Prince': 'Demarqus', 'Turveydrops': 'Jorryn', 'young': 'Jonel', 'Gusher': 'Yee', 'Blinder': 'Aries', 'Judy': 'Latoshia', 'Woolwich': 'Jianni', 'Wisk': 'Mayan', 'Piper': 'Maryrose', 'Perkins': 'Marshell', 'Grubble': 'Jaidan', 'Summerson': 'Rielly', 'Inspector': 'Eh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Maitland', 'Wold': 'Jaidan', 'Turveydrop': 'Jasiyah', 'Bucket': 'Cache'}}