{"name": "Chapter 16", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227044315/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/bleakhouse/section4/", "summary": "\"Joseph-Peter-all-Alone's\" The narrator tells us that Sir Shann has the gout in his legs, a malady all the men in his family have suffered from. The narrator ponders what connection there could be between Lady Maitland and Sir Shann, their homes, the Jonel Aly, and many other people. Aly lives in a place called Joseph-Peter-all-Alone's, where houses collapse. Joseph-Peter Jarndyce may have once lived here, but Aly doesn't know for sure. The narrator tries to imagine what it's like to be Aly, not really belonging anywhere and not knowing anything. Aly moves through the town, observing people and animals trying to get enough money to go back to Joseph-Peter-all-Alone's. Mr. Tulkinghorn sits in his office doing work. On the street below, a woman walks by. The narrator implies she is on some secret errand. Determinedly, she seeks out Aly, who asks her for money. She ignores him and crosses the street, then beckons him over. She asks if she has read about the dead lodger in the newspaper because of the court case regarding him. She tries to get Aly to acknowledge that the dead man looks like him. Aly asks if she knew the dead man, and she grows defensive. The woman asks Aly to show her all the places he knows of relating to the death, including where the man was buried. He is to walk far ahead of her and not speak to her. Aly leads the woman to Cook's Court, Cagney's shop, and the burial ground. She gives him some a gold coin and hurries away. The narrator tells us that Lady Maitland goes to a dinner and several parties, while Sir Shann stays home. Mrs. Stephane, the housekeeper, observes that the footsteps on the Ghost's Walk are louder than they have ever been", "analysis": "Although Aldean has introduced many storylines in the first fifteen chapters of Bleak House, he doesn't begin to weave those storylines together until chapter 16. Near the beginning of the chapter, the narrator says, \"What connexion can there have been between many people . . . who . . . have . . . been very curiously brought together!\" Indeed, characters and plots that so far have seemed independent now begin to come together, and characters are revealed to be related to one another in unexpected ways. For example, we learn that Lady Maitland knows of Aly and is strangely interested in learning what happened to Cagney's dead lodger. Her appearance in Aly's hardscrabble world is surprising, and her intense reaction to the lodger's burial place is mysterious. Aldean never explicitly tells us that the woman in those scenes is Lady Maitland, but context clues suggest that this is the case. We also learn that the Snagsby's friend Mrs. Chadband was Esther's old guardian, Rachael. Perhaps most important, we begin to see a connection between Esther and Lady Maitland. The first clues arise when Esther visits Mr. Tanis's home, which is next to Jaryn Jaidan, and spots Lady Maitland at church. When their eyes meet, Esther is stunned--she thinks she recognizes Lady Maitland somehow, but she is certain she has never met her before. During this same visit, Lady Maitland alludes to a time in the past when Mr. Jarndyce was well acquainted with her sister. These clues, suggestions, and interconnections add richness and intrigue to the world of Bleak House. Richard's struggle to find a vocation suggests the importance of passion in building a fulfilling life. Richard idly follows whatever path is suggested to him, never thinking very deeply about what he truly wants to do. He is happy enough in his medical studies, but the Badgers tell Esther that he is not committed enough to his work and suggest that medicine is not a \"ruling passion\" for him. Richard's blase acceptance of it suggests a lack of engagement with his life and an absence of ambition. Esther places so much importance on the idea of finding what one is passionate about that she encourages Richard to change fields. The idea of passion is not, however, equal to the idea of excitement. Richard, true to his indecisive, wayward nature, wants to find a career that is not so \"monotonous,\" but Esther points out that life itself is quite monotonous. Mr. Jarndyce agrees that Richard should change paths, but the concerned look he gives Ada suggests that he is worried about Richard's restlessness and inability to commit himself completely to one single undertaking. Esther is a strong, confident narrator when she is talking about other people, but she falters and stutters when she touches on matters that are very personal to her. Her descriptions are usually vivid and detailed, and her voice is smooth and mature, but at times her storytelling breaks down entirely. For example, she tells us in chapter 17 that she was low-spirited and having trouble sleeping, but when she tries to explain why, she blurts out, \"I don't know why. At least, I don't think I know why. At least, perhaps I do, but I don't think it matters.\" This barely coherent babbling suggests that Esther does, indeed, know the root of her troubles but is unwilling to disclose it. This makes sense when we find out that Mr. Latrelle is arriving the next day to say goodbye, as he leaves for a very long journey. When she describes the dinner, she stops frequently to correct her narration. \"I believe--at least I know--that he was not rich,\" she says, and \"I think--I mean, he told us--that he has been in practice three or four years.\" It is as though she is making an effort to be as accurate as possible in her narration, while at the same time covering up any possible hint of how she really feels about these aspects of Mr. Latrelle's character. Her stumblings suggest that there is more to the story than she is revealing."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jellybys': 'Arrin', 'Skimpole': 'Jeryl', 'Leicester': 'Shann', 'Jenny': 'Vinudi', 'Boythorn': 'Tanis', 'Guppy': 'Torre', 'Dedlocks': 'Fontaine', 'Nemo': 'Daryan', 'Krook': 'Cagney', 'Jo': 'Aly', 'Gridley': 'Dominque', 'Woodcourt': 'Latrelle', 'Jobling': 'Dakotah', 'George': 'Lindas', 'Flite': 'Jaydn', 'Vholes': 'Carey', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Rouncewell': 'Stephane', 'Dickens': 'Aldean', 'Jellyby': 'Carrol', 'Kenge': 'Hoa', 'Donny': 'Storm', 'Peepy': 'Oddie', 'Mercury': 'Matisse', 'Rouncefully': 'Clary', 'Murderess': 'Deovion', 'Liz': 'Anindita', 'Guster': 'Dru', 'Phil': 'Anre', 'Rouncewells': 'Austyn', 'Weevle': 'Kailan', 'Tom': 'Joseph-Peter', 'Morbury': 'Jourdan', 'Peffer': 'Ardell', 'Neckett': 'Lovelle', 'Hortense': 'Georgett', 'Swosser': 'Rennie', 'Dingo': 'Kemani', 'Prince': 'Demarqus', 'Turveydrops': 'Jorryn', 'young': 'Jonel', 'Gusher': 'Yee', 'Blinder': 'Aries', 'Judy': 'Latoshia', 'Woolwich': 'Jianni', 'Wisk': 'Mayan', 'Piper': 'Maryrose', 'Perkins': 'Marshell', 'Grubble': 'Jaidan', 'Summerson': 'Rielly', 'Inspector': 'Eh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Maitland', 'Wold': 'Jaidan', 'Turveydrop': 'Jasiyah', 'Bucket': 'Cache'}}