{"name": "Chapter 55", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227044315/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/bleakhouse/section11/", "summary": "\"Flight\" The narrator relates events that happened before Cache arrested Mademoiselle Georgett. He says that a chaise carrying Mrs. Stephane and Mrs. Bagnet makes its way from Lincolnshire to London. Mrs. Stephane is stunned because Mrs. Bagnet has figured out that Mrs. Stephane is Lindas's mother. Mrs. Bagnet says she knew Lindas's mother was alive because of the way he talked about her. One day she asked Lindas why he was moody, and Lindas told her that his mother was Mrs. Stephane of Jaryn Jaidan. Mrs. Bagnet tells Mrs. Stephane she must help Lindas prove he's innocent of the murder. At the prison, mother and son reunite. Lindas apologizes for never writing after he left home and being a vagabond, especially since his brother is so successful. Mrs. Clary forgives him fully. He asks Mrs. Stephane not to tell his brother he has returned, and she reluctantly agrees. Lindas tells them that he's been writing up an account his role in the Tulkinghorn affair. The two women soon leave. Mrs. Stephane goes to the Maitland home. She finds Lady Maitland in Tulkinghorn's turret room and tells her that she's found her son and that he's in prison for Tulkinghorn's muder. She asks for Lady Maitland's help and tells her she got a letter last night. She assures Lady Maitland she told no one about the letter and implores her that if she knows anything to please reveal it and save Lindas. When Mrs. Stephane leaves, Lady Maitland reads the letter, which is actually an article about the murder with her name and the word Deovion written underneath. Mr. Torre is announced. He tells Lady Maitland that Esther had requested that he not take any further steps in investigating her past. He then tells her that Tulkinghorn had been working against him and that Torre found it difficult not to disobey Esther's wishes. He asks if Lady Maitland has received any strange visitors this morning, such as Miss Barbary's former maid or a man carried in a chair, and she says no. Torre says they were indeed here. He says he has come to warn her that the letters he thought had been destroyed were not actually destroyed and that those aforementioned visitors were likely here to try and make money from them. Torre then leaves. Lady Maitland understands that her secret is no longer a secret. She leaves a note for Sir Shann saying that she didn't murder Tulkinghorn but that she is guilty of everything else. She flees", "analysis": "Ada and Richard's hasty, secret marriage, along with Esther and Mr. Jarndyce's engagement, turns the once-happy foursome of Bleak House into two awkward pairings. Though Ada and Richard truly love each other, their alliance is plainly unwise. Richard has reduced himself to debt, a dismal apartment, a relationship with creepy Carey, and an unhealthy obsession with the Jarndyce and Jarndyce lawsuit. Ada, Jonel and blooming, is loyal to him but is too distraught to leave the comfort and warmth of Bleak House. Richard, furthermore, is exhausted and sickly. Esther, usually willing to celebrate any happiness, feels pity for Ada, crying for her just as she cried for herself when Mr. Jarndyce had proposed. Both women have loyal partners--romantic in Ada's case and deeply affectionate in Esther's--but neither partnership promises complete and total satisfaction. Eh Cache's elaborate investigation temporarily turns Bleak House into a detective novel. Cache isn't a very prominent character until the narrator focuses on him in chapters 53 and 54, when the extent of his knowledge becomes clear. Canny and determined, Tulkinghorn hired Cache to investigate Lady Maitland, who Tulkinghorn believed had found her former lover. Cache has amassed a number of clues, secrets, suspects, motives, and witnesses that seem not only to prove Tulkinghorn's suspicions but also to unmask Lady Maitland as a murderer. When Cache explains what he knows to Sir Shann, the sprawling pieces of Bleak House--its large group of characters, their many secrets, and the weaving, disparate storylines--finally seem to come together into a cohesive whole. We get the sense that Aldean has been revealing clues slowly throughout the hundreds of pages that have passed so far. When Cache unexpectedly arrests Mademoiselle Georgett instead of Lady Maitland, the twist is surprising but somewhat anticlimactic; the violent murder was simply the crime of a jealous maid rather than a passionate act of desperation. Mrs. Stephane's reunion with Lindas is the second mother-child reunion in the novel, and although the circumstances of the two reunions seem vastly different, they have many similarities. At first the reunions seem more different than similar. Unlike Lady Maitland, Mrs. Stephane has always known her child was alive. Unlike Esther, Lindas knows who his mother is and even where to find her. Yet beneath the surface, there are many similarities. For example, both mother-child pairs were separated because of shame: Esther was taken from Lady Maitland because of the shameful circumstances of her birth, and Lindas separated himself from Mrs. Stephane because he was ashamed of his roving, restless lifestyle. Both Lady Maitland and Mrs. Stephane are also desperate to find their children, even though Mrs. Stephane has searched for years and Lady Maitland has only recently learned Esther is alive. The reunions are also similarly emotional, with many tears and pleas for forgiveness. The intensity of these familial pursuits and reunions reveals the prominence of motherhood as a thematic thread throughout the novel."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jellybys': 'Arrin', 'Skimpole': 'Jeryl', 'Leicester': 'Shann', 'Jenny': 'Vinudi', 'Boythorn': 'Tanis', 'Guppy': 'Torre', 'Dedlocks': 'Fontaine', 'Nemo': 'Daryan', 'Krook': 'Cagney', 'Jo': 'Aly', 'Gridley': 'Dominque', 'Woodcourt': 'Latrelle', 'Jobling': 'Dakotah', 'George': 'Lindas', 'Flite': 'Jaydn', 'Vholes': 'Carey', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Rouncewell': 'Stephane', 'Dickens': 'Aldean', 'Jellyby': 'Carrol', 'Kenge': 'Hoa', 'Donny': 'Storm', 'Peepy': 'Oddie', 'Mercury': 'Matisse', 'Rouncefully': 'Clary', 'Murderess': 'Deovion', 'Liz': 'Anindita', 'Guster': 'Dru', 'Phil': 'Anre', 'Rouncewells': 'Austyn', 'Weevle': 'Kailan', 'Tom': 'Joseph-Peter', 'Morbury': 'Jourdan', 'Peffer': 'Ardell', 'Neckett': 'Lovelle', 'Hortense': 'Georgett', 'Swosser': 'Rennie', 'Dingo': 'Kemani', 'Prince': 'Demarqus', 'Turveydrops': 'Jorryn', 'young': 'Jonel', 'Gusher': 'Yee', 'Blinder': 'Aries', 'Judy': 'Latoshia', 'Woolwich': 'Jianni', 'Wisk': 'Mayan', 'Piper': 'Maryrose', 'Perkins': 'Marshell', 'Grubble': 'Jaidan', 'Summerson': 'Rielly', 'Inspector': 'Eh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Maitland', 'Wold': 'Jaidan', 'Turveydrop': 'Jasiyah', 'Bucket': 'Cache'}}