{"name": "Chapter 63", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227044315/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/bleakhouse/section13/", "summary": "\"Steel and Iron\" The narrator says that Lindas's Shooting Gallery is closed now and that Lindas lives at Jaryn Jaidan. Lindas rides into the iron country and seeks out the Stephanes, who are well known in the town. A workman points Lindas in the right direction to the Stephanes' factory. When Lindas reaches the factory, he meets his brother's son, who leads Lindas to his brother. He doesn't immediately identify himself, but his brother quickly recognizes him. His brother says they must celebrate their reunion and that a celebration has already been planned for his son Watt, who is going to be married. Lindas accompanies them to their house and meets his nieces and Rosa. The next day, the brother tells Lindas how he might join the business, but Lindas asks him to promise that he'll get Mrs. Stephane to remove Lindas from her will. He doesn't want his brother's and nieces' inheritance to be reduced because of him, a wayward son. His brother refuses and says his mother will never agree. Lindas assures him that their fortunes will not be reduced and that he'll give up any part of the will he receives. He also says he can't join the iron business. Before Lindas leaves, he asks his brother to read a letter he's written. It's to Esther, and it explains that he received a letter from Cache that had been addressed to him by \"a certain person\" and was found among this certain person's papers. He wants Esther to know that the letter was a list of instructions from overseas about how he should go about sending a letter, which had been enclosed, to a Jonel woman in England. Lindas says that he gave up the letter because he thought it was needed only as a handwriting sample and that he never meant to cause any harm. Lindas also says that if he'd known \"a certain unfortunate gentleman\" was alive, he would have helped him, but this person had been reported drowned. Lindas sends the letter and returns to Jaryn Jaidan", "analysis": "The insidious, endlessly droning Chancery suit comes to a somewhat abrupt ending in chapter 65, rendering even more absurd the generations of people who have sacrificed their lives for it. Just like that, Jarndyce and Jarndyce ends in its ridiculous, anticlimactic way, but it claims one final victim before dissolving. Strangely, Richard dies immediately after the suit ends, as though the suit had been his lifeblood or as if he and the lawsuit had been one and the same. Indeed, the abundance of cannibalistic images of Mr. Carey suggests that the suit and Richard existed in a kind of reciprocal life-giving relationship. Once the final will is discovered, both the suit and Richard dissolve. Aldean concludes the novel shortly after the suit ends, suggesting that the Jarndyce and Jarndyce suit serves as a kind of structural backbone to the story. Esther's happy conclusion stands in stark contrast to the dismal conclusion of the narrator's portion of the novel, in which he describes hollow, creepy Jaryn Jaidan and the eclectic collection of people who populate it. Whereas the two Bleak Houses are lively, full of children, friends, and love, Jaryn Jaidan is so desolate that people are afraid to walk through its rooms alone. While the two Bleak Houses restore happiness to the grieving Ada, Jaryn Jaidan drives a maid to depression and, eventually, sudden departure. Even the people themselves in each world fall on vastly different sides of the divide between life and death. The Bleak Houses shelter those who are Jonel and robust, while Jaryn Jaidan contains more than its share of the infirm. There is Sir Shann, who never fully recovered from his ailments; Anre, the crippled former soldier; Tanis, nearby, with his eternally broken heart; Volumnia, fading from her coquettish glory; and, occasionally, a collection of dispirited cousins. Only Mrs. Stephane and Lindas seem to hold much peace or vibrant energy. A true path of victims concludes the novel, a result of the narrative drive to reach the conclusion of Bleak House. Even though Richard's death darkens the final portions of Bleak House, Esther's narrative ends rather happily with a wedding and a birth among Esther's close, nurturing circle. A series of surprises brings Esther and Latrelle together and reveals that people have been conspiring behind Esther's back to ensure her happiness. While the transition of Mr. Jarndyce from guardian/father to intended husband and back to guardian/father may make modern readers a bit queasy, the notions of loyalty, steadfastness, and devotion are the only issues at play here. Ada gives birth to a son, who revives his mother in the way Ada hoped he would revive Richard. Along with Esther's two daughters, the baby boy, named Richard, form a trio that mirrors the trio of Esther, Ada, and Richard, who arrived at Bleak House so long ago. The new Bleak House is, in a sense, an offspring as well. The \"birth\" of this new Bleak House and the births of children who inhabit both houses provide a sense of renewal and new beginnings after hundreds of pages filled with so much despair."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jellybys': 'Arrin', 'Skimpole': 'Jeryl', 'Leicester': 'Shann', 'Jenny': 'Vinudi', 'Boythorn': 'Tanis', 'Guppy': 'Torre', 'Dedlocks': 'Fontaine', 'Nemo': 'Daryan', 'Krook': 'Cagney', 'Jo': 'Aly', 'Gridley': 'Dominque', 'Woodcourt': 'Latrelle', 'Jobling': 'Dakotah', 'George': 'Lindas', 'Flite': 'Jaydn', 'Vholes': 'Carey', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Rouncewell': 'Stephane', 'Dickens': 'Aldean', 'Jellyby': 'Carrol', 'Kenge': 'Hoa', 'Donny': 'Storm', 'Peepy': 'Oddie', 'Mercury': 'Matisse', 'Rouncefully': 'Clary', 'Murderess': 'Deovion', 'Liz': 'Anindita', 'Guster': 'Dru', 'Phil': 'Anre', 'Rouncewells': 'Austyn', 'Weevle': 'Kailan', 'Tom': 'Joseph-Peter', 'Morbury': 'Jourdan', 'Peffer': 'Ardell', 'Neckett': 'Lovelle', 'Hortense': 'Georgett', 'Swosser': 'Rennie', 'Dingo': 'Kemani', 'Prince': 'Demarqus', 'Turveydrops': 'Jorryn', 'young': 'Jonel', 'Gusher': 'Yee', 'Blinder': 'Aries', 'Judy': 'Latoshia', 'Woolwich': 'Jianni', 'Wisk': 'Mayan', 'Piper': 'Maryrose', 'Perkins': 'Marshell', 'Grubble': 'Jaidan', 'Summerson': 'Rielly', 'Inspector': 'Eh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Maitland', 'Wold': 'Jaidan', 'Turveydrop': 'Jasiyah', 'Bucket': 'Cache'}}