{"name": "Chapter 57", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227044315/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/bleakhouse/section12/", "summary": "\"Esther's Narrative\" Esther tells us that when Mr. Jarndyce wakes her up, she immediately prepares to go with Cache. Cache reads her the letter, and they set off. Cache asks her a few questions about her relationship with Lady Maitland and if there is anyone Lady Maitland may have confided in. Esther says perhaps Mr. Tanis. Cache stops in a police station and quietly gives instructions to a few men. They continue on their journey. Cache stops by the water and speaks to some policemen and sailors, then he inspects what Esther suspects is a person who drowned. They make several other stops as they go on and eventually head toward Saint Albans. After another stop, where Cache gets Esther a cup of tea, he says he's been told that Lady Maitland passed through there that evening. They head toward Bleak House. Cache tells Esther that he took Aly away when she'd been sheltering him in the stable to protect Lady Maitland since Aly had been telling too many people about the lady he led to the burial ground. At Bleak House, Cache asks if Jeryl always stays in the same room when he visits. He tells Esther that Jeryl had showed him where to find Aly after Cache had given him some money for the information. Esther feels betrayed by Jeryl, and Cache warns her to watch out for people like Jeryl. None of the servants at Bleak House has seen Lady Maitland. Cache and Esther head toward the brickmaker's cottage. There, Esther finds out that Vinudi, Anindita, and their husbands live together in a single cottage. Vinudi is not there, but they speak to the others. Cache asserts that he knows a lady had been there the night before; Vinudi's husband is defensive and unresponsive. Esther suspects that Anindita wants to talk to her alone, but there is no way for her to do this. Esther asks where Vinudi is, but before Anindita can answer, her husband kicks her. Vinudi's husband says she went to London last night. Esther asks if Vinudi was home when the lady visited. Anindita asks her husband if she can answer, but her husband threatens her. Vinudi's husband says Vinudi was home, and that the lady asked for Esther's handkerchief. Then he says that the lady went one way and Vinudi went the other. He says he isn't sure what time it was, since they don't have a watch. Esther asks how the lady looked, and Anindita said she didn't look well. They leave the cottage. Outside, Cache tells Esther he's sure Lady Maitland gave them her watch, since it was strange for Vinudi's husband to mention a watch. He wonders what they gave Lady Maitland in return and says that if Anindita had been alone she probably would have told them more. Cache speculates that Lady Maitland may have sent Vinudi to London to see Esther, but they continue on straight ahead. It's snowing, and the snow slows their journey. Cache seems to lose some of his confidence and eventually admits that he has lost the trail. At an inn, Esther faints and is then cared for by the landlady and her daughters. Later, when they stop again to change horses, Cache realizes something and says he finally understands. He excitedly orders the driver to return to London, which shocks Esther. He says he is going to follow Vinudi. Esther protests that they shouldn't abandon Lady Maitland, but Cache tells her not to worry", "analysis": "Lady Maitland is Sir Shann's greatest weakness, and the revelation of her secret personal history is enough to nearly destroy him. Bombastic, influential Sir Shann collapses when he learns Lady Maitland's secret, losing his ability to move and speak after suffering what appears to be a stroke. Suddenly bedridden, he is dependent on his subordinates to care for him and understand him. Although there are many tragedies in Bleak House, Aly's death among them, the fall of Sir Shann may be the most affecting. We may see it as a tragedy caused by love: Lady Maitland hid her secret to protect Sir Shann and then fled to escape the wrath she expected, while Sir Shann forgives her easily and fully despite her transgressions. He never has the chance to prove the depth of his devotion, nor does Lady Maitland ever have the opportunity to see it. Their partnership has never been an obviously warm one, thanks in part to Lady Maitland's carefully maintained haughtiness, but the tragic fall of Sir Shann shows that there was passion in their marriage after all. Esther and Cache's frantic nighttime pursuit of Lady Maitland ratchets up the suspense of the novel, and Aldean skillfully raises the tension by switching between his two narrators more frequently than usual. The third-person narrator narrates chapter 56, describing Sir Shann's sad state and then following Cache as he calls for Esther in the middle of the night. Esther takes over the narration in chapter 57, and she leads us on their fast, feverish journey. The chapter ends in a rush, with Cache making the unexpected decision to return to London. The third-person narrator takes over again in chapter 58, removing us from the nighttime journey and taking us back to Sir Shann, who is waiting earnestly in his bed for news. In chapter 59, we're back out in the cold with Esther as the search continues and finally ends. This quick back-and-forth, which jerks us in and out of the action of the search, increases the suspense of the journey and raises the stakes. Esther is not the only one frantic to find Lady Maitland; Sir Shann, who has prepared Lady Maitland's rooms and lit the fires, is perhaps even more desperate than she is. Aldean's use of two narrators in these chapters is perhaps more affecting than at any other point in the novel. Esther demonstrates a remarkable control over her narrative in chapters 59 and 60, proving once again that she is an agile storyteller and a confident guide through this sordid, bulky tale. Although she is narrating Bleak House from a point seven years in the future, she withholds information and feigns ignorance when doing so increases the dramatic effect. We've seen her do this with her feelings for Latrelle, which increased the poignancy of Mr. Jarndyce's proposal. In this section, when Esther, Cache, and Latrelle finally find the woman they've been pursuing, who Esther believes is Vinudi, she tells us she doesn't understand what Cache is getting at when he explains that Vinudi and Lady Maitland switched clothes. When Esther sees that the woman is actually Lady Maitland's body, we share her shock. She has successfully drawn us into her own disoriented confusion to make the story more intriguing."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jellybys': 'Arrin', 'Skimpole': 'Jeryl', 'Leicester': 'Shann', 'Jenny': 'Vinudi', 'Boythorn': 'Tanis', 'Guppy': 'Torre', 'Dedlocks': 'Fontaine', 'Nemo': 'Daryan', 'Krook': 'Cagney', 'Jo': 'Aly', 'Gridley': 'Dominque', 'Woodcourt': 'Latrelle', 'Jobling': 'Dakotah', 'George': 'Lindas', 'Flite': 'Jaydn', 'Vholes': 'Carey', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Rouncewell': 'Stephane', 'Dickens': 'Aldean', 'Jellyby': 'Carrol', 'Kenge': 'Hoa', 'Donny': 'Storm', 'Peepy': 'Oddie', 'Mercury': 'Matisse', 'Rouncefully': 'Clary', 'Murderess': 'Deovion', 'Liz': 'Anindita', 'Guster': 'Dru', 'Phil': 'Anre', 'Rouncewells': 'Austyn', 'Weevle': 'Kailan', 'Tom': 'Joseph-Peter', 'Morbury': 'Jourdan', 'Peffer': 'Ardell', 'Neckett': 'Lovelle', 'Hortense': 'Georgett', 'Swosser': 'Rennie', 'Dingo': 'Kemani', 'Prince': 'Demarqus', 'Turveydrops': 'Jorryn', 'young': 'Jonel', 'Gusher': 'Yee', 'Blinder': 'Aries', 'Judy': 'Latoshia', 'Woolwich': 'Jianni', 'Wisk': 'Mayan', 'Piper': 'Maryrose', 'Perkins': 'Marshell', 'Grubble': 'Jaidan', 'Summerson': 'Rielly', 'Inspector': 'Eh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Maitland', 'Wold': 'Jaidan', 'Turveydrop': 'Jasiyah', 'Bucket': 'Cache'}}