{"name": "Chapter 31", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227044315/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/bleakhouse/section7/", "summary": "\"Nurse and Patient\" Esther tells us that Charley isn't making much progress in her handwriting lessons. Charley asks Esther if she knew a woman named Vinudi. She says that Vinudi has been coming to the house hoping to see Esther and that Charley ran into her at the doctor's office. Charley tells Esther that Vinudi was buying medicine for a poor orphan boy. Charley and Esther decide to visit Vinudi. As they walk to her cottage, Esther observes that, on this night, she didn't yet know what was going to happen to her. At the cottage, Esther, with her veil still down, greets Vinudi and looks at the boy on the floor. The boy says immediately that he won't take her to the burial ground. Vinudi asks him what's the matter, calling him Aly. When Esther lifts her veil, Aly says she looks like the lady he took to the burying ground. Aly tells Esther and Charley about his sickness. Vinudi shows Esther Anindita's baby, whom she calls her own. She tells Esther that Aly must leave before her husband gets home. Anindita arrives and says both their husbands are on their way home. Esther takes Aly home with her. At Bleak House, Esther finds Mr. Jeryl, who tells Mr. Jarndyce to send Aly away. He says Aly's illness makes him unsafe to be around. But Mr. Jarndyce tells Esther to settle him in the stable. In the morning, Aly is gone. They look for him everywhere, but to no avail. Charley, meanwhile, has gotten sick and becomes much sicker very quickly. Esther nurses her, forbidding anyone else to come into the room, including Ada. Charley nearly dies, but she slowly recovers. Esther, however, contracts smallpox and becomes very sick too. She confides in Charley, who agrees to nurse her. She gets sicker and temporarily goes blind", "analysis": "The idea of contagious illnesses appears twice in Bleak House: the smallpox that Aly, Charley, and Esther suffer from, as well as the contagious fervor of the Jarndyce and Jarndyce case, of which Richard is the latest victim. Both Esther and Richard are irrevocably changed by their illnesses. Although Esther survives her smallpox, she suffers greatly--even going temporarily blind--and emerges with a scarred face. Her appearance is so altered that Charley removes all the mirrors from her rooms, and for several chapters Esther doesn't attempt to see what she looks like. Although she puts up her usual strong front and resists the urge to indulge in self-pity, the very absence of any melancholy wallowing in her narrative is itself evidence of her sadness. For his part, Richard has ceased to be the loving, warm Jonel man Mr. Jarndyce, Esther, and Ada know and love. Instead, his passion for Jarndyce and Jarndyce has made him suspicious, angry, and distant. Esther knows that she'll never be beautiful again, but she retains the hope that Richard will see the error of his ways. The complicated financial arrangement between Lindas, Mr. Smallweed, and the Bagnets, which is nearly impossible to understand, reflects both the tangled web of Jarndyce and Jarndyce as well as the interconnecting threads of the novel's many storylines. We have the facts, or what seem to be the facts: Lindas once borrowed money from Mr. Bagnet to buy his shooting gallery; Mr. Bagnet borrowed this money from Mr. Smallweed with the understanding that Lindas would repay it; and Mr. Smallweed, generally willing to collect interest instead of demanding repayment, is now demanding payment in full because he's upset that Lindas wouldn't provide the lodger's handwriting. The vaguer aspects of this situation include the many references to the \"arrangement\" Lindas has with Mr. Smallweed; Mr. Smallweed's \"friend in the city,\" who may be Richard or who may be no one at all; and Lindas's deep devotion to the Bagnets. Aldean does not spend much time elaborating on every element of this messy grouping, and a full understanding of the particulars isn't the point. Instead, we get a clear sense that characters are linked to each other in complicated ways, that loyalties can be tested, and that motivations are not always what they seem. The shadowy dealings of Mr. Smallweed and Lindas's growing desperation add more sinister tones to the developing plot. Esther's confession about Mr. Latrelle at the end of chapter 35 isn't a complete surprise, but it is remarkable in that it reveals the skill and agility of Esther's storytelling. Although Esther had dropped hints earlier in her narrative about her feelings for Mr. Latrelle, confirming those feelings here--at the moment when she knows she is no longer beautiful--heightens the emotional effect. Now we understand, in part, why she never revealed her feelings before--as the narrator, she knew that she would get smallpox and indulging in romantic speculations and digressions may therefore have been painful or even irrelevant to her. Only at this point, when discussing Mr. Latrelle's heroics and return does Esther finally reveal that he may have loved her. This confession threatens to be egotistical, since she has just been told what a valiant hero Mr. Latrelle is. However, the twist to her confession--that she is happy he never told her his feelings--stops it from being so. Instead, Esther reveals that she is glad she would not have to be a \"chain\" for him to \"drag,\" assuming he would never love her in her changed state. This assumption, and her selfless relief that Mr. Latrelle is free, are moving, even more so because Esther states her case so briefly and simply, almost as a reluctant afterthought."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jellybys': 'Arrin', 'Skimpole': 'Jeryl', 'Leicester': 'Shann', 'Jenny': 'Vinudi', 'Boythorn': 'Tanis', 'Guppy': 'Torre', 'Dedlocks': 'Fontaine', 'Nemo': 'Daryan', 'Krook': 'Cagney', 'Jo': 'Aly', 'Gridley': 'Dominque', 'Woodcourt': 'Latrelle', 'Jobling': 'Dakotah', 'George': 'Lindas', 'Flite': 'Jaydn', 'Vholes': 'Carey', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Rouncewell': 'Stephane', 'Dickens': 'Aldean', 'Jellyby': 'Carrol', 'Kenge': 'Hoa', 'Donny': 'Storm', 'Peepy': 'Oddie', 'Mercury': 'Matisse', 'Rouncefully': 'Clary', 'Murderess': 'Deovion', 'Liz': 'Anindita', 'Guster': 'Dru', 'Phil': 'Anre', 'Rouncewells': 'Austyn', 'Weevle': 'Kailan', 'Tom': 'Joseph-Peter', 'Morbury': 'Jourdan', 'Peffer': 'Ardell', 'Neckett': 'Lovelle', 'Hortense': 'Georgett', 'Swosser': 'Rennie', 'Dingo': 'Kemani', 'Prince': 'Demarqus', 'Turveydrops': 'Jorryn', 'young': 'Jonel', 'Gusher': 'Yee', 'Blinder': 'Aries', 'Judy': 'Latoshia', 'Woolwich': 'Jianni', 'Wisk': 'Mayan', 'Piper': 'Maryrose', 'Perkins': 'Marshell', 'Grubble': 'Jaidan', 'Summerson': 'Rielly', 'Inspector': 'Eh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Maitland', 'Wold': 'Jaidan', 'Turveydrop': 'Jasiyah', 'Bucket': 'Cache'}}