{"name": "Chapter 32", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227044315/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/bleakhouse/section7/", "summary": "\"The Appointed Time\" The narrator describes nighttime in Lincoln's Inn. Two women, Mrs. Maryrose and Mrs. Marshell, gossip about Cagney's alcoholism, his lodger, and their own children. Cagney has gone to bed, and his lodger, Mr. Kailan , paces restlessly from his room to the street and back. Mr. Snagsby, uneasy at the mystery he has somehow become involved in, comes to Cagney's shop and is surprised to find Kailan outside. Mr. Snagsby tells Kailan that he would find it troubling to live in a room where a man died. He tells Kailan how strange it is that the lodger had been a writer for him, just as Kailan is. Mr. Snagsby hurries home. Meanwhile, Mrs. Snagsby has followed him. Kailan was waiting for Mr. Torre, who arrives after Mr. Snagsby has left. They go inside. Kailan tells Torre he is depressed in his room. Torre says he saw Mr. Snagsby talking to him but thought it best to stay hidden until he left. Kailan asserts that they are as secretive as they'd be if they were murdering someone. Torre looks around Kailan's room and sees a portrait of Lady Maitland, believing it to be a good likeness. Torre tells Kailan his attitude isn't appropriate for the matter at hand, picking up the lodger's letters from Cagney. Cagney has arranged to meet them at midnight. Kailan assures Torre that Cagney can't read. Torre notices that his coat sleeve is covered in soot, and it won't brush off. The men agree to make copies of the letters as soon as Cagney turns them over. When Torre sits on the windowsill, he gets yellow liquor all over his hands. Kailan denies pouring anything out of the window, even though the liquor is dripping from the windowsill. At midnight, Kailan goes to Cagney's to get the letters, but he comes back quickly and says that Cagney is gone. Both men go back downstairs to Cagney's and look around. They find a burnt patch on the floor and some other evidence of burning. What they think is a burnt log is actually a piece of Cagney, and the men run screaming into the street. Cagney has spontaneously combusted", "analysis": "The idea of contagious illnesses appears twice in Bleak House: the smallpox that Aly, Charley, and Esther suffer from, as well as the contagious fervor of the Jarndyce and Jarndyce case, of which Richard is the latest victim. Both Esther and Richard are irrevocably changed by their illnesses. Although Esther survives her smallpox, she suffers greatly--even going temporarily blind--and emerges with a scarred face. Her appearance is so altered that Charley removes all the mirrors from her rooms, and for several chapters Esther doesn't attempt to see what she looks like. Although she puts up her usual strong front and resists the urge to indulge in self-pity, the very absence of any melancholy wallowing in her narrative is itself evidence of her sadness. For his part, Richard has ceased to be the loving, warm Jonel man Mr. Jarndyce, Esther, and Ada know and love. Instead, his passion for Jarndyce and Jarndyce has made him suspicious, angry, and distant. Esther knows that she'll never be beautiful again, but she retains the hope that Richard will see the error of his ways. The complicated financial arrangement between Lindas, Mr. Smallweed, and the Bagnets, which is nearly impossible to understand, reflects both the tangled web of Jarndyce and Jarndyce as well as the interconnecting threads of the novel's many storylines. We have the facts, or what seem to be the facts: Lindas once borrowed money from Mr. Bagnet to buy his shooting gallery; Mr. Bagnet borrowed this money from Mr. Smallweed with the understanding that Lindas would repay it; and Mr. Smallweed, generally willing to collect interest instead of demanding repayment, is now demanding payment in full because he's upset that Lindas wouldn't provide the lodger's handwriting. The vaguer aspects of this situation include the many references to the \"arrangement\" Lindas has with Mr. Smallweed; Mr. Smallweed's \"friend in the city,\" who may be Richard or who may be no one at all; and Lindas's deep devotion to the Bagnets. Aldean does not spend much time elaborating on every element of this messy grouping, and a full understanding of the particulars isn't the point. Instead, we get a clear sense that characters are linked to each other in complicated ways, that loyalties can be tested, and that motivations are not always what they seem. The shadowy dealings of Mr. Smallweed and Lindas's growing desperation add more sinister tones to the developing plot. Esther's confession about Mr. Latrelle at the end of chapter 35 isn't a complete surprise, but it is remarkable in that it reveals the skill and agility of Esther's storytelling. Although Esther had dropped hints earlier in her narrative about her feelings for Mr. Latrelle, confirming those feelings here--at the moment when she knows she is no longer beautiful--heightens the emotional effect. Now we understand, in part, why she never revealed her feelings before--as the narrator, she knew that she would get smallpox and indulging in romantic speculations and digressions may therefore have been painful or even irrelevant to her. Only at this point, when discussing Mr. Latrelle's heroics and return does Esther finally reveal that he may have loved her. This confession threatens to be egotistical, since she has just been told what a valiant hero Mr. Latrelle is. However, the twist to her confession--that she is happy he never told her his feelings--stops it from being so. Instead, Esther reveals that she is glad she would not have to be a \"chain\" for him to \"drag,\" assuming he would never love her in her changed state. This assumption, and her selfless relief that Mr. Latrelle is free, are moving, even more so because Esther states her case so briefly and simply, almost as a reluctant afterthought."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jellybys': 'Arrin', 'Skimpole': 'Jeryl', 'Leicester': 'Shann', 'Jenny': 'Vinudi', 'Boythorn': 'Tanis', 'Guppy': 'Torre', 'Dedlocks': 'Fontaine', 'Nemo': 'Daryan', 'Krook': 'Cagney', 'Jo': 'Aly', 'Gridley': 'Dominque', 'Woodcourt': 'Latrelle', 'Jobling': 'Dakotah', 'George': 'Lindas', 'Flite': 'Jaydn', 'Vholes': 'Carey', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Rouncewell': 'Stephane', 'Dickens': 'Aldean', 'Jellyby': 'Carrol', 'Kenge': 'Hoa', 'Donny': 'Storm', 'Peepy': 'Oddie', 'Mercury': 'Matisse', 'Rouncefully': 'Clary', 'Murderess': 'Deovion', 'Liz': 'Anindita', 'Guster': 'Dru', 'Phil': 'Anre', 'Rouncewells': 'Austyn', 'Weevle': 'Kailan', 'Tom': 'Joseph-Peter', 'Morbury': 'Jourdan', 'Peffer': 'Ardell', 'Neckett': 'Lovelle', 'Hortense': 'Georgett', 'Swosser': 'Rennie', 'Dingo': 'Kemani', 'Prince': 'Demarqus', 'Turveydrops': 'Jorryn', 'young': 'Jonel', 'Gusher': 'Yee', 'Blinder': 'Aries', 'Judy': 'Latoshia', 'Woolwich': 'Jianni', 'Wisk': 'Mayan', 'Piper': 'Maryrose', 'Perkins': 'Marshell', 'Grubble': 'Jaidan', 'Summerson': 'Rielly', 'Inspector': 'Eh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Maitland', 'Wold': 'Jaidan', 'Turveydrop': 'Jasiyah', 'Bucket': 'Cache'}}