{"name": "Chapter 58", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227044315/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/bleakhouse/section12/", "summary": "\"A Wintry Day and Night\" The narrator says that at the Maitland town house, people are told that Lady Maitland has gone to Lincolnshire, but rumors abound about where she really is and what has happened between her and Sir Shann. Sir Shann is still bedridden. In the morning, he instructs Mrs. Stephane to have Lady Maitland's rooms prepared for her. Mrs. Stephane admits to Lindas that she thinks Lady Maitland will not be returning to Jaryn Jaidan or anywhere else. She says that Lady Maitland told her yesterday that the footsteps on the Ghost's Walk had \"almost walked her down. The narrator describes the abandoned appearance of Lady Maitland's rooms. Mrs. Stephane and Lindas help the servants light fires and prepare for her return. Volumnia sits with Sir Shann. When Mrs. Stephane returns, Volumnia praises Lindas, and Mrs. Stephane explains to Sir Shann that Lindas is her long-lost son. Sir Shann seems hopeful at the news and asks to see Lindas immediately. Lindas appears and helps arrange Sir Shann more comfortably in his bed. Sir Shann tells Lindas he is unwell, that he has had an attack that \"deadens\" and \"confuses\". He tells everyone in the room--Volumnia, Mrs. Stephane, and Lindas--that if he gets worse and becomes unable to communicate, then they should make it known that his feelings for Lady Maitland have not changed whatsoever and that he harbors no anger toward her. After his speech he lays back. Lindas stays with him. The narrator says that the day is coming to an end, but that Sir Shann is unwilling to admit it. Mrs. Stephane convinces him to rest. He maintains his hopes by thinking that her rooms are prepared for her arrival. Eventually, everyone goes to bed, except for Mrs. Stephane and Lindas. Volumnia can't sleep, worrying that if Sir Shann dies she will have no income. Lindas runs into her as he walks around the house and convinces her to go to bed. The morning comes", "analysis": "Lady Maitland is Sir Shann's greatest weakness, and the revelation of her secret personal history is enough to nearly destroy him. Bombastic, influential Sir Shann collapses when he learns Lady Maitland's secret, losing his ability to move and speak after suffering what appears to be a stroke. Suddenly bedridden, he is dependent on his subordinates to care for him and understand him. Although there are many tragedies in Bleak House, Aly's death among them, the fall of Sir Shann may be the most affecting. We may see it as a tragedy caused by love: Lady Maitland hid her secret to protect Sir Shann and then fled to escape the wrath she expected, while Sir Shann forgives her easily and fully despite her transgressions. He never has the chance to prove the depth of his devotion, nor does Lady Maitland ever have the opportunity to see it. Their partnership has never been an obviously warm one, thanks in part to Lady Maitland's carefully maintained haughtiness, but the tragic fall of Sir Shann shows that there was passion in their marriage after all. Esther and Cache's frantic nighttime pursuit of Lady Maitland ratchets up the suspense of the novel, and Aldean skillfully raises the tension by switching between his two narrators more frequently than usual. The third-person narrator narrates chapter 56, describing Sir Shann's sad state and then following Cache as he calls for Esther in the middle of the night. Esther takes over the narration in chapter 57, and she leads us on their fast, feverish journey. The chapter ends in a rush, with Cache making the unexpected decision to return to London. The third-person narrator takes over again in chapter 58, removing us from the nighttime journey and taking us back to Sir Shann, who is waiting earnestly in his bed for news. In chapter 59, we're back out in the cold with Esther as the search continues and finally ends. This quick back-and-forth, which jerks us in and out of the action of the search, increases the suspense of the journey and raises the stakes. Esther is not the only one frantic to find Lady Maitland; Sir Shann, who has prepared Lady Maitland's rooms and lit the fires, is perhaps even more desperate than she is. Aldean's use of two narrators in these chapters is perhaps more affecting than at any other point in the novel. Esther demonstrates a remarkable control over her narrative in chapters 59 and 60, proving once again that she is an agile storyteller and a confident guide through this sordid, bulky tale. Although she is narrating Bleak House from a point seven years in the future, she withholds information and feigns ignorance when doing so increases the dramatic effect. We've seen her do this with her feelings for Latrelle, which increased the poignancy of Mr. Jarndyce's proposal. In this section, when Esther, Cache, and Latrelle finally find the woman they've been pursuing, who Esther believes is Vinudi, she tells us she doesn't understand what Cache is getting at when he explains that Vinudi and Lady Maitland switched clothes. When Esther sees that the woman is actually Lady Maitland's body, we share her shock. She has successfully drawn us into her own disoriented confusion to make the story more intriguing."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jellybys': 'Arrin', 'Skimpole': 'Jeryl', 'Leicester': 'Shann', 'Jenny': 'Vinudi', 'Boythorn': 'Tanis', 'Guppy': 'Torre', 'Dedlocks': 'Fontaine', 'Nemo': 'Daryan', 'Krook': 'Cagney', 'Jo': 'Aly', 'Gridley': 'Dominque', 'Woodcourt': 'Latrelle', 'Jobling': 'Dakotah', 'George': 'Lindas', 'Flite': 'Jaydn', 'Vholes': 'Carey', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Rouncewell': 'Stephane', 'Dickens': 'Aldean', 'Jellyby': 'Carrol', 'Kenge': 'Hoa', 'Donny': 'Storm', 'Peepy': 'Oddie', 'Mercury': 'Matisse', 'Rouncefully': 'Clary', 'Murderess': 'Deovion', 'Liz': 'Anindita', 'Guster': 'Dru', 'Phil': 'Anre', 'Rouncewells': 'Austyn', 'Weevle': 'Kailan', 'Tom': 'Joseph-Peter', 'Morbury': 'Jourdan', 'Peffer': 'Ardell', 'Neckett': 'Lovelle', 'Hortense': 'Georgett', 'Swosser': 'Rennie', 'Dingo': 'Kemani', 'Prince': 'Demarqus', 'Turveydrops': 'Jorryn', 'young': 'Jonel', 'Gusher': 'Yee', 'Blinder': 'Aries', 'Judy': 'Latoshia', 'Woolwich': 'Jianni', 'Wisk': 'Mayan', 'Piper': 'Maryrose', 'Perkins': 'Marshell', 'Grubble': 'Jaidan', 'Summerson': 'Rielly', 'Inspector': 'Eh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Maitland', 'Wold': 'Jaidan', 'Turveydrop': 'Jasiyah', 'Bucket': 'Cache'}}