{"name": "Chapter 39", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227044315/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/bleakhouse/section8/", "summary": "\"Attorney and Client\" The narrator describes Mr. Carey and his small, dark office in Symond's Inn. Mr. Carey claims to be a respectable man, fully devoted to his clients and their affairs. Mr. Carey wholeheartedly promotes the idea that the backbone of English law is that it must make business for itself. Yet he convinces Richard that they will make progress in the suit. Richard trusts him completely. Mr. Torre and Mr. Kailan see Richard on the street, and Mr. Torre observes that Richard is now in debt because he wouldn't stay away from the suit. Mr. Torre then tells Mr. Kailan that he no longer wishes to find the letters from the now dead Cagney. He asks Mr. Kailan to tell him if there's any chance the letters didn't burn and might be hidden in Cagney's shop. Grandfather Smallweed has been coming to the shop every day, searching through Cagney's belongings, but he never finds anything of value. Mr. Torre and Mr. Kailan go to the shop, chat briefly with Grandfather Smallweed, then go upstairs to Mr. Kailan's old lodging. Mr. Tulkinghorn appears. He congratulates Torre on being able to meet with grand ladies. Torre grows red and tells Tulkinghorn that he doesn't have to explain himself. Tulkinghorn leaves. Torre admits to Kailan that he's been in communication with a member of the aristocracy, but that this must end and be forgotten", "analysis": "When Esther looks at herself in the mirror and sees her scarred face for the first time, she reveals her vulnerability more than at any other point in the novel. Never one to indulge in self-pity, she plainly observes that even though she had never been beautiful, what little beauty she had is now gone completely. The simplicity of her statement--\"It was all gone now\"--is characteristic of Esther's clear, direct narrative style, but it also reveals how deeply she feels the loss. No matter how fond others are of her, no amount of affection, love, or respect can alter the fact that her face has been ruined. Although she goes on once again to count her blessings and get over her sadness determinedly, this plain statement suggests that there is great pain beneath Esther's relentless cheerfulness. Her decision to keep Mr. Latrelle's flowers also suggests the depth of her sadness. Although she claims to be fully content with her lot in life, she keeps the flowers to remind her of how she used to look. She may go on with her life uncomplainingly, but she does not go on without a secret reserve of regret. The revelatory confrontation between Lady Maitland and Esther brings a secret to the surface, but their brief encounter focuses on the necessity of protecting that secret still further. Esther divines Lady Maitland's secret as soon as she sees the handkerchief and, like Lady Maitland, is overcome with violent emotion. Their happiness at finding each other is brief, and the overarching tone of this encounter is fearful. Esther is unsettled to see Lady Maitland at her feet, asking her forgiveness. Lady Maitland is newly consumed by her own guilt, referring to the \"dark road\" she must follow and declaring herself to be \"wretched and dishonoring.\" Lady Maitland's fear of being discovered overshadows any happiness or relief she may feel at finally revealing her secret. She has just connected with the daughter she thought was dead, and yet she asserts that they can never meet or talk again. She is almost looking over her shoulder as they speak, and she and Esther conspire about who suspects their relationship. Both vow to keep the secret at all costs, and while they can't pursue a public relationship, this secret binds them together. The narrator's scathing portrayal of Mr. Carey in chapter 38 indicts the legal system as a self-perpetuating waste and lawyers as cannibals. The narrator draws an analogy that directly connects Carey and his family to \"cannibal chiefs\" and says, \"Make man-eating un-lawful, and you starve the Careyes!\" The endless Jarndyce and Jarndyce lawsuit is a dream job for Carey, since the case will never end and Carey can extract money from Richard indefinitely. The narrator is not subtle in his descriptions, leaving no question that Carey is immoral, untrustworthy, and dangerous. These views are underscored by the narrator's repetition of the statement, \"Mr. Carey is a very respectable man.\" The more we know about Carey, the more sarcastic this statement becomes. Because of men like Carey, the legal system has ceased to serve the people and instead serves only the scheming lawyers who want to make themselves rich."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jellybys': 'Arrin', 'Skimpole': 'Jeryl', 'Leicester': 'Shann', 'Jenny': 'Vinudi', 'Boythorn': 'Tanis', 'Guppy': 'Torre', 'Dedlocks': 'Fontaine', 'Nemo': 'Daryan', 'Krook': 'Cagney', 'Jo': 'Aly', 'Gridley': 'Dominque', 'Woodcourt': 'Latrelle', 'Jobling': 'Dakotah', 'George': 'Lindas', 'Flite': 'Jaydn', 'Vholes': 'Carey', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Rouncewell': 'Stephane', 'Dickens': 'Aldean', 'Jellyby': 'Carrol', 'Kenge': 'Hoa', 'Donny': 'Storm', 'Peepy': 'Oddie', 'Mercury': 'Matisse', 'Rouncefully': 'Clary', 'Murderess': 'Deovion', 'Liz': 'Anindita', 'Guster': 'Dru', 'Phil': 'Anre', 'Rouncewells': 'Austyn', 'Weevle': 'Kailan', 'Tom': 'Joseph-Peter', 'Morbury': 'Jourdan', 'Peffer': 'Ardell', 'Neckett': 'Lovelle', 'Hortense': 'Georgett', 'Swosser': 'Rennie', 'Dingo': 'Kemani', 'Prince': 'Demarqus', 'Turveydrops': 'Jorryn', 'young': 'Jonel', 'Gusher': 'Yee', 'Blinder': 'Aries', 'Judy': 'Latoshia', 'Woolwich': 'Jianni', 'Wisk': 'Mayan', 'Piper': 'Maryrose', 'Perkins': 'Marshell', 'Grubble': 'Jaidan', 'Summerson': 'Rielly', 'Inspector': 'Eh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Maitland', 'Wold': 'Jaidan', 'Turveydrop': 'Jasiyah', 'Bucket': 'Cache'}}