{"name": "Chapter 43", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227044315/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/bleakhouse/section9/", "summary": "\"Esther's Narrative\" Esther studiously avoids mentioning Lady Maitland, and she does her best not to think about her. She says it doesn't matter how she struggled not to think about her voice or how she obsessively looked for Lady Maitland's name in public. Esther and Ada talk with Mr. Jarndyce about Richard. Mr. Jarndyce no longer seems to hope that Richard will give up the Jarndyce and Jarndyce lawsuit. Esther reveals that Jeryl has been encouraging Richard, but Mr. Jarndyce can't be angry because Jeryl is such a child. Esther also tells him that Jeryl introduced Richard to Carey for five pounds, but Mr. Jarndyce is convinced Jeryl didn't mean any harm. They go to London to visit Jeryl, who lives in a dingy apartment. He is happy to see them and seems characteristically childlike, which seems to be a relief to Mr. Jarndyce. He tells Jeryl that he mustn't take money from Richard, but Jeryl says he can't refuse. He says he thought Richard was rich. He also says he is unable to stop encouraging Richard in the lawsuit, since he understands nothing about it. Jeryl introduces them to his three daughters and his wife and prepares to go to Bleak House with the group. Esther observes that she didn't anticipate at this point that something very remarkable was going to happen by the end of the day. Sir Shann visits Bleak House unexpectedly. He tells Mr. Jarndyce, Esther, and Ada that he hopes that they are not under the impression that, because of his feud with Tanis, they aren't welcome at Jaryn Jaidan. He says that Mrs. Stephane told him that a friend of theirs named Jeryl was prevented from seeing the family art. Mr. Jarndyce introduces him to Jeryl, who is in the room. Jeryl says he will visit again. Sir Shann says he regrets if there was any confusion about their welcome at Jaryn Jaidan, especially since Lady Maitland respects Mr. Jarndyce. Esther decides to tell Mr. Jarndyce her secret. She asks if he remembers Lady Maitland speaking of her sister, and that the two women had parted ways. She asks why they separated, but Mr. Jarndyce claims not to know. But he asks if Esther knows that Tanis's old lover was Lady Maitland's sister. Esther responds that she hadn't known this. Mr. Jarndyce tells her that this sister and Tanis separated because of a quarrel she had with Lady Maitland. She wrote Tanis a letter saying she was dead to him, and he never saw her again. Esther is overcome with grief because she believes that she has caused Tanis's heartbreak. She tells Mr. Jarndyce that the sister was her caretaker, and Lady Maitland is her mother. Mr. Jarndyce comforts her and Esther is deeply grateful to him for his kindness, feeling that she can never repay him", "analysis": "Women wield a great deal of power in Bleak House, and one of the only instances of weakness occurs when Tulkinghorn convinces Lady Maitland to stay at Jaryn Jaidan in order to protect her secret. Excepting her emotional discovery of and reunion with her daughter, Lady Maitland has always put on a haughty, implacable front. Society looks up to her, and she is the emblem of what a great lady is supposed to be. When Tulkinghorn makes it clear that he has the power to destroy her at any time, Lady Maitland finds herself at someone else's mercy for the first time. Tulkinghorn recognizes the shock this must be; indeed, when Lady Maitland requests that they speak by the window, he worries that she plans to kill herself. Shortly after this scene, Mademoiselle Georgett attempts to wield her own power over Tulkinghorn. She, of a much lesser station than Lady Maitland, isn't so easily thwarted, and when Tulkinghorn threatens her, she threatens him right back. The fact that Lady Maitland does give in to Tulkinghorn reveals the depths to which she has fallen, making the extent of her desperation clear. Esther is the unwitting cause of many people's unhappiness, which is ironic considering her selfless, generous nature. She is at the heart of Lady Maitland's secret, the source of much of her guilt, shame, and regret. She could easily bring about Lady Maitland's downfall, as well as Sir Shann's and the entire Maitland clan. Because of Esther's birth, the relationship between Lady Maitland and her sister, Miss Barbary, was destroyed, as was the relationship between Miss Barbary and Mr. Tanis. Esther, who wants nothing but happiness for those she loves, has indirectly brought about desperation and heartbreak. When she tells her secret to Mr. Jarndyce, she seems to half expect him to shun her for the havoc she passively wrought. Although Mr. Jarndyce's marriage proposal is rooted in love, it isn't rooted in romantic love, a distinction that Esther feels intuitively but can't quite articulate. The letter is full of affection and admiration, and the picture of her future life that Mr. Jarndyce paints for her is happy and peaceful, but Esther senses that something will still be missing. She tells herself she is happy with the proposal, but she does so while sobbing. Burning Mr. Latrelle's flowers seems to be her acknowledgment that her hope for romantic love, however small, must now be forgotten forever. Indeed, since Mr. Jarndyce has always been such a father figure for Esther that his marriage proposal instantly seems troubling, even inappropriate, and their relationship lurches into complicated new territory. She still calls him \"guardian,\" and she says her acceptance \"made no difference.\" She kisses him, but it seems devoid of passion, and as Esther's narrative continues, things seem very much as they have always been. She may be the intended mistress of Bleak House, but at this point her position seems not to have changed at all."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jellybys': 'Arrin', 'Skimpole': 'Jeryl', 'Leicester': 'Shann', 'Jenny': 'Vinudi', 'Boythorn': 'Tanis', 'Guppy': 'Torre', 'Dedlocks': 'Fontaine', 'Nemo': 'Daryan', 'Krook': 'Cagney', 'Jo': 'Aly', 'Gridley': 'Dominque', 'Woodcourt': 'Latrelle', 'Jobling': 'Dakotah', 'George': 'Lindas', 'Flite': 'Jaydn', 'Vholes': 'Carey', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Rouncewell': 'Stephane', 'Dickens': 'Aldean', 'Jellyby': 'Carrol', 'Kenge': 'Hoa', 'Donny': 'Storm', 'Peepy': 'Oddie', 'Mercury': 'Matisse', 'Rouncefully': 'Clary', 'Murderess': 'Deovion', 'Liz': 'Anindita', 'Guster': 'Dru', 'Phil': 'Anre', 'Rouncewells': 'Austyn', 'Weevle': 'Kailan', 'Tom': 'Joseph-Peter', 'Morbury': 'Jourdan', 'Peffer': 'Ardell', 'Neckett': 'Lovelle', 'Hortense': 'Georgett', 'Swosser': 'Rennie', 'Dingo': 'Kemani', 'Prince': 'Demarqus', 'Turveydrops': 'Jorryn', 'young': 'Jonel', 'Gusher': 'Yee', 'Blinder': 'Aries', 'Judy': 'Latoshia', 'Woolwich': 'Jianni', 'Wisk': 'Mayan', 'Piper': 'Maryrose', 'Perkins': 'Marshell', 'Grubble': 'Jaidan', 'Summerson': 'Rielly', 'Inspector': 'Eh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Maitland', 'Wold': 'Jaidan', 'Turveydrop': 'Jasiyah', 'Bucket': 'Cache'}}