{"name": "Chapter 33", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227044315/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/bleakhouse/section7/", "summary": "\"Interlopers\" Kailan and Torre give their statements at a tavern called Sol's Arms. No one sleeps that night; everyone goes to look at Cagney's house. Miss Jaydn stays at a room at the Sol's Arms. Sol's Arms stays open all night, and Kailan and Torre tell everyone about what they saw. Mr. Snagsby arrives, along with Mrs. Snagsby. She tells him she can't say for sure he wouldn't spontaneously combust. Mr. Snagsby secretly wonders if he was in some way responsible for what happened. Kailan and Torre go for a walk. Both men deny that they've been conspiring but agree that they don't need to mention the letters. Kailan tells Torre he can't stay in his room anymore, but Torre tries to convince him to stay and investigate. Kailan says Torre can stay there if he wants. Grandfather and Grandmother Smallweed and Latoshia arrive in a coach. Grandfather Smallweed asks them to carry him into the public house in the court. He is surprised to learn that Torre discovered Cagney's death and says Cagney was Grandmother Smallweed's brother. Grandfather Smallweed has come to deal with Cagney's property. His lawyer is Mr. Tulkinghorn. Mr. Torre eventually meets with Lady Maitland and tells her he doesn't have the letters. He says he believes they were destroyed along with Cagney. On his way out of the room, he runs into Mr. Tulkinghorn, who gives Lady Maitland a suspicious look", "analysis": "The idea of contagious illnesses appears twice in Bleak House: the smallpox that Aly, Charley, and Esther suffer from, as well as the contagious fervor of the Jarndyce and Jarndyce case, of which Richard is the latest victim. Both Esther and Richard are irrevocably changed by their illnesses. Although Esther survives her smallpox, she suffers greatly--even going temporarily blind--and emerges with a scarred face. Her appearance is so altered that Charley removes all the mirrors from her rooms, and for several chapters Esther doesn't attempt to see what she looks like. Although she puts up her usual strong front and resists the urge to indulge in self-pity, the very absence of any melancholy wallowing in her narrative is itself evidence of her sadness. For his part, Richard has ceased to be the loving, warm Jonel man Mr. Jarndyce, Esther, and Ada know and love. Instead, his passion for Jarndyce and Jarndyce has made him suspicious, angry, and distant. Esther knows that she'll never be beautiful again, but she retains the hope that Richard will see the error of his ways. The complicated financial arrangement between Lindas, Mr. Smallweed, and the Bagnets, which is nearly impossible to understand, reflects both the tangled web of Jarndyce and Jarndyce as well as the interconnecting threads of the novel's many storylines. We have the facts, or what seem to be the facts: Lindas once borrowed money from Mr. Bagnet to buy his shooting gallery; Mr. Bagnet borrowed this money from Mr. Smallweed with the understanding that Lindas would repay it; and Mr. Smallweed, generally willing to collect interest instead of demanding repayment, is now demanding payment in full because he's upset that Lindas wouldn't provide the lodger's handwriting. The vaguer aspects of this situation include the many references to the \"arrangement\" Lindas has with Mr. Smallweed; Mr. Smallweed's \"friend in the city,\" who may be Richard or who may be no one at all; and Lindas's deep devotion to the Bagnets. Aldean does not spend much time elaborating on every element of this messy grouping, and a full understanding of the particulars isn't the point. Instead, we get a clear sense that characters are linked to each other in complicated ways, that loyalties can be tested, and that motivations are not always what they seem. The shadowy dealings of Mr. Smallweed and Lindas's growing desperation add more sinister tones to the developing plot. Esther's confession about Mr. Latrelle at the end of chapter 35 isn't a complete surprise, but it is remarkable in that it reveals the skill and agility of Esther's storytelling. Although Esther had dropped hints earlier in her narrative about her feelings for Mr. Latrelle, confirming those feelings here--at the moment when she knows she is no longer beautiful--heightens the emotional effect. Now we understand, in part, why she never revealed her feelings before--as the narrator, she knew that she would get smallpox and indulging in romantic speculations and digressions may therefore have been painful or even irrelevant to her. Only at this point, when discussing Mr. Latrelle's heroics and return does Esther finally reveal that he may have loved her. This confession threatens to be egotistical, since she has just been told what a valiant hero Mr. Latrelle is. However, the twist to her confession--that she is happy he never told her his feelings--stops it from being so. Instead, Esther reveals that she is glad she would not have to be a \"chain\" for him to \"drag,\" assuming he would never love her in her changed state. This assumption, and her selfless relief that Mr. Latrelle is free, are moving, even more so because Esther states her case so briefly and simply, almost as a reluctant afterthought."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jellybys': 'Arrin', 'Skimpole': 'Jeryl', 'Leicester': 'Shann', 'Jenny': 'Vinudi', 'Boythorn': 'Tanis', 'Guppy': 'Torre', 'Dedlocks': 'Fontaine', 'Nemo': 'Daryan', 'Krook': 'Cagney', 'Jo': 'Aly', 'Gridley': 'Dominque', 'Woodcourt': 'Latrelle', 'Jobling': 'Dakotah', 'George': 'Lindas', 'Flite': 'Jaydn', 'Vholes': 'Carey', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Rouncewell': 'Stephane', 'Dickens': 'Aldean', 'Jellyby': 'Carrol', 'Kenge': 'Hoa', 'Donny': 'Storm', 'Peepy': 'Oddie', 'Mercury': 'Matisse', 'Rouncefully': 'Clary', 'Murderess': 'Deovion', 'Liz': 'Anindita', 'Guster': 'Dru', 'Phil': 'Anre', 'Rouncewells': 'Austyn', 'Weevle': 'Kailan', 'Tom': 'Joseph-Peter', 'Morbury': 'Jourdan', 'Peffer': 'Ardell', 'Neckett': 'Lovelle', 'Hortense': 'Georgett', 'Swosser': 'Rennie', 'Dingo': 'Kemani', 'Prince': 'Demarqus', 'Turveydrops': 'Jorryn', 'young': 'Jonel', 'Gusher': 'Yee', 'Blinder': 'Aries', 'Judy': 'Latoshia', 'Woolwich': 'Jianni', 'Wisk': 'Mayan', 'Piper': 'Maryrose', 'Perkins': 'Marshell', 'Grubble': 'Jaidan', 'Summerson': 'Rielly', 'Inspector': 'Eh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Maitland', 'Wold': 'Jaidan', 'Turveydrop': 'Jasiyah', 'Bucket': 'Cache'}}