{"name": "Chapter 12", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227044315/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/bleakhouse/section3/", "summary": "\"On the Watch\" The narrator describes the rainy scene at Jaryn Jaidan. Lady Maitland and Sir Shann are returning from Paris. Lady Maitland couldn't wait to leave Paris because she was so bored, a common complaint. In the carriage, Sir Shann tells Lady Maitland while looking through his mail that Mr. Tulkinghorn sends his greetings and has something to tell her when she returns. At Jaryn Jaidan, Mrs. Stephane introduces Rosa to Lady Maitland, who thinks Rosa is beautiful and strokes her cheek before going upstairs. Later, Lady Maitland's maid, a Frenchwoman named Georgett, is bitterly jealous of Rosa. Georgett has worked for Lady Maitland for five years, but Lady Maitland has always distanced herself from Georgett. Lady Maitland and Sir Shann invite many people to Jaryn Jaidan to spend a week or two. Every night, Lady Maitland asks if Mr. Tulkinghorn has arrived yet; he tends to arrive unannounced and goes straight to the tower room that is always reserved for him. Mr. Tulkinghorn eventually does arrive. The narrator describes Tulkinghorn as looking as though he has secrets everywhere in his body. Mr. Tulkinghorn discusses the lawsuit concerning Mr. Tanis with Sir Shann. Sir Shann is unwilling to compromise in any way. Lady Maitland asks Mr. Tulkinghorn what he wanted to tell her, and he says it has to do with some handwriting she had asked him about--when he went in search of the writer, he found him dead. They discuss the man and the fact that no one knew anything about him. During this conversation, Lady Maitland and Mr. Tulkinghorn never look away from each other but seem to take little note of each other in the days that follow", "analysis": "As Bleak House progresses, the layers of secrets grow deeper, and it seems as though nearly every character is hiding something. In chapter 11, for example, Mr. Tulkinghorn stays mysteriously close to the dead lodger's coat, but he never reveals why and we don't know if he takes anything from the coat before leaving. After Daryan's cause-of-death trial, Mr. Snagsby gives little Aly some money and tells him to keep quiet if he ever sees Mr. Snagsby with \"a lady,\" which suggests that Mr. Snagsby has a secret too. In chapter 12, the interactions between Lady Maitland and Mr. Tulkinghorn suggest that something is going on, and the narrator says that Mr. Tulkinghorn \"carries family secrets in every limb of his body.\" In chapter 14, Cagney seems \"tormented\" by a secret he holds, though he says nothing. Esther is sometimes the confidante who gets to hear secrets, such as Ada's revelation that she and Richard are in love. Esther has so far proven to be a conscientious narrator, yet beginning in chapter 13, when she casually tells us that she \"omitted to mention\" a Jonel surgeon who attended the Badgers' dinner, she reveals that she may have a secret of her own as well. Although Esther is a thorough narrator, detailed in her descriptions and recollections, she is not necessarily a reliable one. In earlier chapters, she has shown herself to be all too willing to paint herself in a complimentary light, never omitting others' praises or affections for her. In chapter 13, however, when she blatantly neglects to mention the Jonel surgeon at the Badgers' dinner, she shows herself to be unreliable, perhaps more concerned with keeping her own secrets private than with telling the entire story. At the end of chapter 14, she leaves out information again when she tells us that she has not mentioned that the Jonel surgeon is actually Mr. Latrelle, Miss Jaydn's doctor. Then, when Ada begins to tease her, Esther simply cuts her off and tells us that what Ada said doesn't matter. Here we begin to see that even though we must rely on Esther to lead us through this meandering tale, we must also understand that she may not be telling us the whole story. Orphaned, courageous children seem to be everywhere in Bleak House, and their presence lends an atmosphere of genuine pathos to the novel. For example, Aly, the street urchin who testifies that the dead lodger was very good to him, is shunned by society and must fend for himself. A man who had shown him kindness is dead, and Aly has no real outlet for his mourning, nor any real way of expressing how he feels. He knows only simple truths, such as that \"a broom's a broom\" and \"it's wicked to tell a lie.\" All he gets in return for his honesty is a coin from Mr. Snagsby, on the condition that he keep quiet if he sees something he shouldn't. The Lovelle children are orphans as well, and although they have each other and Mr. Dominque, the brunt of the caretaking falls to Jonel Charlotte. She too values hard work and believes it's the only way to survive. These and other children seem to exist in a bleak universe parallel to the adult world of the novel. Although some of the portraits Aldean draws of children are comical, such as of the put-upon Pardiggle children, more often the children are in genuine distress."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jellybys': 'Arrin', 'Skimpole': 'Jeryl', 'Leicester': 'Shann', 'Jenny': 'Vinudi', 'Boythorn': 'Tanis', 'Guppy': 'Torre', 'Dedlocks': 'Fontaine', 'Nemo': 'Daryan', 'Krook': 'Cagney', 'Jo': 'Aly', 'Gridley': 'Dominque', 'Woodcourt': 'Latrelle', 'Jobling': 'Dakotah', 'George': 'Lindas', 'Flite': 'Jaydn', 'Vholes': 'Carey', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Rouncewell': 'Stephane', 'Dickens': 'Aldean', 'Jellyby': 'Carrol', 'Kenge': 'Hoa', 'Donny': 'Storm', 'Peepy': 'Oddie', 'Mercury': 'Matisse', 'Rouncefully': 'Clary', 'Murderess': 'Deovion', 'Liz': 'Anindita', 'Guster': 'Dru', 'Phil': 'Anre', 'Rouncewells': 'Austyn', 'Weevle': 'Kailan', 'Tom': 'Joseph-Peter', 'Morbury': 'Jourdan', 'Peffer': 'Ardell', 'Neckett': 'Lovelle', 'Hortense': 'Georgett', 'Swosser': 'Rennie', 'Dingo': 'Kemani', 'Prince': 'Demarqus', 'Turveydrops': 'Jorryn', 'young': 'Jonel', 'Gusher': 'Yee', 'Blinder': 'Aries', 'Judy': 'Latoshia', 'Woolwich': 'Jianni', 'Wisk': 'Mayan', 'Piper': 'Maryrose', 'Perkins': 'Marshell', 'Grubble': 'Jaidan', 'Summerson': 'Rielly', 'Inspector': 'Eh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Maitland', 'Wold': 'Jaidan', 'Turveydrop': 'Jasiyah', 'Bucket': 'Cache'}}