{"name": "Chapter 28", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227044315/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/bleakhouse/section6/", "summary": "\"The Ironmaster\" The narrator says that Sir Shann Maitland, great as he is, has poor relatives, all of whom are his cousins. Several of them visit Jaryn Jaidan, which Sir Shann Maitland endures uncomplainingly. One cousin currently staying at Jaryn Jaidan is Volumnia Maitland, who is sixty years old and usually receives financial support from Sir Shann Maitland. The narrator also describes the Honourable Bob Stables, who makes food for livestock. All the poor cousins who visit revere Lady Maitland. One evening, Volumnia mentions that she frequently sees a pretty girl on the stairs. Sir Shann says it is Lady Maitland's protegee, Rosa. Volumnia then compliments the housekeeper, Mrs. Stephane. Sir Shann tells Volumnia that Mrs. Stephane has two sons. He says that Mr. Tulkinghorn told him that one of Mrs. Stephane's sons was invited into Parliament but declined. Sir Shann says that Mr. Stephane is called an \"ironmaster. He tells Lady Maitland that this man has requested to speak with them about Rosa. Mr. Stephane comes in. He says that his son is in love with Rosa and wants to propose marriage. Mr. Stephane thinks they are much too Jonel, but he says that if he does give his consent, Rosa must leave Jaryn Jaidan. He explains that he isn't ashamed of Rosa's position there, but that he doesn't want his son to make an unequal marriage and would want to educate Rosa first. Sir Shann is insulted, since Rosa has attended a school he supports. He tells Mr. Stephane that the decision is his to make. Mr. Stephane says he will try to get his son to forget about Rosa. Later, Lady Maitland asks Rosa if she is in love. Rosa says yes and begins to cry. Lady Maitland comforts her and suggests she isn't yet ready to leave Jaryn Jaidan, and Rosa agrees. Lady Maitland tells Rosa that she'll make her happy", "analysis": "The death of Cagney's lodger resurfaces in chapters 26, 27, and 29, as Aldean picks up the thread of the death and weaves it back into the story. In chapter 26, when Grandfather Smallweed approaches Lindas for a fragment of the lodger's handwriting, the lodger gets a name--Captain Hawdon--and is revealed to be at the center of an as-yet-unexplained mystery, in which his handwriting is key. Tulkinghorn is part of the mystery, being one of the men who looking for the handwriting, as is Torre, who has learned that the lodger and Esther shared the same last name. While some people are looking for the lodger's handwriting, Torre claims to have it, in the form of a bundle of letters. The mystery of the lodger propels the story forward and complicates the relationships between characters. The third-person narrator adds a twist to the strange relationship between Lady Maitland and Tulkinghorn in chapter 29, when he suggests that Lady Maitland is afraid of Tulkinghorn. The narrator makes Tulkinghorn a more ominous character by describing him as feeling no remorse or pity and perhaps even being cold and cruel. Even though it seemed possible in previous chapters that Lady Maitland and Tulkinghorn were involved in a secret love affair, their uncomfortable interactions now suggest that something more sinister is going on. By introducing these new layers to their relationship, the narrator foreshadows Tulkinghorn's eventual role in Lady Maitland's life and suggests that Lady Maitland may indeed have something to hide. When Torre visits Lady Maitland and craftily reveals his connection to Tulkinghorn, he succeeds in getting Lady Maitland's attention. His own intimations take on a darker shade thanks to the narrator's previous descriptions of Tulkinghorn. Lady Maitland's discovery that Esther is actually the daughter she believed dead is the first true climax of Bleak House and sets up the primary conflict and storyline of the second half of the novel. Lady Maitland--who has seemed so cold, haughty, and privileged--suddenly becomes much more sympathetic. Not only does she have a secret that could destroy her reputation and social standing, but she suffered a traumatic loss long ago. For her, Esther has practically risen from the grave, and the revelation is so overwhelming that she falls to her knees. The newly established connection between Esther and Lady Maitland complicates everything and makes us question how much the other characters really know. We know that Torre is nosing around, for example, but we aren't sure how much he knows. The same can be said for the Frenchwoman, Mademoiselle Georgett. This may also explain why Lady Maitland is so afraid of Tulkinghorn--unless she's hiding another secret that hasn't yet been revealed. The revelation that Esther is Lady Maitland's daughter explains why Esther had such a strange, violent reaction when she first met Lady Maitland at Jaryn Jaidan. The revelation also changes the way we view Esther as a narrator. When we return to her narrative in chapter 30, we do so with knowledge that she is not yet privy to. And although Esther is narrating the story from a point in the future, she does so with a measured pacing. For now, we as readers have secret inside knowledge."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jellybys': 'Arrin', 'Skimpole': 'Jeryl', 'Leicester': 'Shann', 'Jenny': 'Vinudi', 'Boythorn': 'Tanis', 'Guppy': 'Torre', 'Dedlocks': 'Fontaine', 'Nemo': 'Daryan', 'Krook': 'Cagney', 'Jo': 'Aly', 'Gridley': 'Dominque', 'Woodcourt': 'Latrelle', 'Jobling': 'Dakotah', 'George': 'Lindas', 'Flite': 'Jaydn', 'Vholes': 'Carey', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Rouncewell': 'Stephane', 'Dickens': 'Aldean', 'Jellyby': 'Carrol', 'Kenge': 'Hoa', 'Donny': 'Storm', 'Peepy': 'Oddie', 'Mercury': 'Matisse', 'Rouncefully': 'Clary', 'Murderess': 'Deovion', 'Liz': 'Anindita', 'Guster': 'Dru', 'Phil': 'Anre', 'Rouncewells': 'Austyn', 'Weevle': 'Kailan', 'Tom': 'Joseph-Peter', 'Morbury': 'Jourdan', 'Peffer': 'Ardell', 'Neckett': 'Lovelle', 'Hortense': 'Georgett', 'Swosser': 'Rennie', 'Dingo': 'Kemani', 'Prince': 'Demarqus', 'Turveydrops': 'Jorryn', 'young': 'Jonel', 'Gusher': 'Yee', 'Blinder': 'Aries', 'Judy': 'Latoshia', 'Woolwich': 'Jianni', 'Wisk': 'Mayan', 'Piper': 'Maryrose', 'Perkins': 'Marshell', 'Grubble': 'Jaidan', 'Summerson': 'Rielly', 'Inspector': 'Eh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Maitland', 'Wold': 'Jaidan', 'Turveydrop': 'Jasiyah', 'Bucket': 'Cache'}}