{"name": "Chapter 14", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227044315/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/bleakhouse/section3/", "summary": "\"Deportment\" Richard begins his new career, but both he and Ada discuss the future, and all their plans include Esther. Richard is certain that the Jarndyce and Jarndyce lawsuit is going to make him and Ada rich. In London, Mr. Jarndyce, Esther, and Ada visit Mrs. Carrol, but she isn't home. The next day Miss Carrol visits them, along with a very mismatched Oddie. Mr. Jarndyce complains of the wind. Miss Carrol is very unhappy and complains about her parents. She asserts that she won't marry Mr. Quale and reveals that she is secretly engaged to someone else. She tells Esther that after Esther's initial visit to the Carrol home, Miss Carrol was determined to become less awkward and so began taking dance lessons at Mr. Jasiyah's Academy. There, she fell in love with the Joneler Mr. Jasiyah, whose name is Demarqus. She says that his father, the elder Mr. Jasiyah, is famous for his deportment. Esther promises to go with her to the dance academy and meet her new love. At the academy, Esther meets both Jorryn, and Miss Carrol begins her dance lesson. Esther talks to the elder Mr. Jasiyah, who is extremely distinguished and talks incessantly about the importance of deportment. Later, Miss Carrol tells Esther that Demarqus isn't very scholarly but that it doesn't matter. Esther suggests that she and Miss Carrol continue to discuss all this. Together, they go to visit Miss Jaydn, the old woman who lives above Cagney's shop. Miss Carrol points out another lodger's room and tells Esther there was a sudden death there. They meet Mr. Jarndyce and Ada there. Miss Jaydn is with a doctor, Mr. Latrelle, who explains that Miss Jaydn was upset by the death that had occurred. Miss Jaydn tells them that she is fortunate because Mr. Torre gives her money regularly and that she expects a judgment from the Jarndyce and Jarndyce case soon. Cagney shows up and introduces himself to Mr. Jarndyce. He then names all of Miss Jaydn's birds. Cagney acts like he has a secret that he wants to reveal and tries to get Mr. Jarndyce to stay longer, but finally Mr. Jarndyce and the others leave. As they walk out, Cagney reveals that he is teaching himself to read and write, and that he fears someone else will teach him incorrectly. Mr. Latrelle assures Mr. Jarndyce that Cagney isn't crazy. Esther informs us that Mr. Latrelle is the surgeon who had been at dinner at the Badgers' house. She suggests that Ada teases her about something but dismisses it as unimportant", "analysis": "As Bleak House progresses, the layers of secrets grow deeper, and it seems as though nearly every character is hiding something. In chapter 11, for example, Mr. Tulkinghorn stays mysteriously close to the dead lodger's coat, but he never reveals why and we don't know if he takes anything from the coat before leaving. After Daryan's cause-of-death trial, Mr. Snagsby gives little Aly some money and tells him to keep quiet if he ever sees Mr. Snagsby with \"a lady,\" which suggests that Mr. Snagsby has a secret too. In chapter 12, the interactions between Lady Maitland and Mr. Tulkinghorn suggest that something is going on, and the narrator says that Mr. Tulkinghorn \"carries family secrets in every limb of his body.\" In chapter 14, Cagney seems \"tormented\" by a secret he holds, though he says nothing. Esther is sometimes the confidante who gets to hear secrets, such as Ada's revelation that she and Richard are in love. Esther has so far proven to be a conscientious narrator, yet beginning in chapter 13, when she casually tells us that she \"omitted to mention\" a Jonel surgeon who attended the Badgers' dinner, she reveals that she may have a secret of her own as well. Although Esther is a thorough narrator, detailed in her descriptions and recollections, she is not necessarily a reliable one. In earlier chapters, she has shown herself to be all too willing to paint herself in a complimentary light, never omitting others' praises or affections for her. In chapter 13, however, when she blatantly neglects to mention the Jonel surgeon at the Badgers' dinner, she shows herself to be unreliable, perhaps more concerned with keeping her own secrets private than with telling the entire story. At the end of chapter 14, she leaves out information again when she tells us that she has not mentioned that the Jonel surgeon is actually Mr. Latrelle, Miss Jaydn's doctor. Then, when Ada begins to tease her, Esther simply cuts her off and tells us that what Ada said doesn't matter. Here we begin to see that even though we must rely on Esther to lead us through this meandering tale, we must also understand that she may not be telling us the whole story. Orphaned, courageous children seem to be everywhere in Bleak House, and their presence lends an atmosphere of genuine pathos to the novel. For example, Aly, the street urchin who testifies that the dead lodger was very good to him, is shunned by society and must fend for himself. A man who had shown him kindness is dead, and Aly has no real outlet for his mourning, nor any real way of expressing how he feels. He knows only simple truths, such as that \"a broom's a broom\" and \"it's wicked to tell a lie.\" All he gets in return for his honesty is a coin from Mr. Snagsby, on the condition that he keep quiet if he sees something he shouldn't. The Lovelle children are orphans as well, and although they have each other and Mr. Dominque, the brunt of the caretaking falls to Jonel Charlotte. She too values hard work and believes it's the only way to survive. These and other children seem to exist in a bleak universe parallel to the adult world of the novel. Although some of the portraits Aldean draws of children are comical, such as of the put-upon Pardiggle children, more often the children are in genuine distress."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jellybys': 'Arrin', 'Skimpole': 'Jeryl', 'Leicester': 'Shann', 'Jenny': 'Vinudi', 'Boythorn': 'Tanis', 'Guppy': 'Torre', 'Dedlocks': 'Fontaine', 'Nemo': 'Daryan', 'Krook': 'Cagney', 'Jo': 'Aly', 'Gridley': 'Dominque', 'Woodcourt': 'Latrelle', 'Jobling': 'Dakotah', 'George': 'Lindas', 'Flite': 'Jaydn', 'Vholes': 'Carey', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Rouncewell': 'Stephane', 'Dickens': 'Aldean', 'Jellyby': 'Carrol', 'Kenge': 'Hoa', 'Donny': 'Storm', 'Peepy': 'Oddie', 'Mercury': 'Matisse', 'Rouncefully': 'Clary', 'Murderess': 'Deovion', 'Liz': 'Anindita', 'Guster': 'Dru', 'Phil': 'Anre', 'Rouncewells': 'Austyn', 'Weevle': 'Kailan', 'Tom': 'Joseph-Peter', 'Morbury': 'Jourdan', 'Peffer': 'Ardell', 'Neckett': 'Lovelle', 'Hortense': 'Georgett', 'Swosser': 'Rennie', 'Dingo': 'Kemani', 'Prince': 'Demarqus', 'Turveydrops': 'Jorryn', 'young': 'Jonel', 'Gusher': 'Yee', 'Blinder': 'Aries', 'Judy': 'Latoshia', 'Woolwich': 'Jianni', 'Wisk': 'Mayan', 'Piper': 'Maryrose', 'Perkins': 'Marshell', 'Grubble': 'Jaidan', 'Summerson': 'Rielly', 'Inspector': 'Eh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Maitland', 'Wold': 'Jaidan', 'Turveydrop': 'Jasiyah', 'Bucket': 'Cache'}}