{"name": "Chapter 29", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227044315/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/bleakhouse/section6/", "summary": "\"The Young Man\" Jaryn Jaidan is shut up, and the Fontaine go to their house in town. Tulkinghorn visits frequently, and the narrator suggests that Lady Maitland is afraid of him. One day, Mr. Torre visits. Sir Shann finds out that Lady Maitland has told Torre he can visit when he wants. He leaves Torre and Lady Maitland alone. Torre has apparently written many letters to Lady Maitland, and she has finally agreed to see him. He tells her that he works for Hoa and Carboy, which is connected to the Jarndyce and Jarndyce case, but that he isn't here about that. He says that if he had Jarndyce and Jarndyce matters to discuss, he would have gone to Tulkinghorn, with whom he is acquainted. This gets Lady Maitland's attention. Torre requests that Lady Maitland not complain of this visit to Hoa and Carboy to Tulkinghorn, and she agrees. He then asks if Lady Maitland knows Esther Rielly, and she says she met Esther last fall. Torre asks if Esther reminded her of any of her relatives. Lady Maitland says no but doesn't take her eyes off Torre as he speaks. Torre persists and says that he sees a strong resemblance between Esther and Lady Maitland--he saw Lady Maitland's portrait at Jaryn Jaidan. Torre then says that Esther's birth and upbringing are mysteries, and that he hopes to somehow prove that she is part of Lady Maitland's family so that she can be made a party to Jarndyce and Jarndyce. He is doing all this to try to get Esther to reconsider his marriage proposal. He tells Lady Maitland that he has found out that Esther's guardian before Mr. Jarndyce was a Miss Barbary. Lady Maitland turns pale. She says she did once know a Miss Barbary, but that, to her knowledge, there was no family connection. Torre says that although Miss Barbary said very little, she did tell Esther that her real name is Esther Hawdon. Lady Maitland is shocked but covers it quickly. She says she never heard the name Hawdon. Torre then says that the lodger who was found dead at Cagney's was named Hawdon. After the death, a strange woman followed a Jonel boy to Hawdon's grave. Torre asks if Lady Maitland would like to see the boy; she says no. He remarks on the boy's observation that the woman had many rings on her fingers. The narrator says that Lady Maitland is wearing many diamond rings. Finally, Torre says that Hawdon left behind some letters, which he will obtain tomorrow. If the letters connect Lady Maitland to all of this, he will bring them to her. He leaves. Lady Maitland falls to her knees. She realizes that Esther is her daughter, who her sister told her had died at birth", "analysis": "The death of Cagney's lodger resurfaces in chapters 26, 27, and 29, as Aldean picks up the thread of the death and weaves it back into the story. In chapter 26, when Grandfather Smallweed approaches Lindas for a fragment of the lodger's handwriting, the lodger gets a name--Captain Hawdon--and is revealed to be at the center of an as-yet-unexplained mystery, in which his handwriting is key. Tulkinghorn is part of the mystery, being one of the men who looking for the handwriting, as is Torre, who has learned that the lodger and Esther shared the same last name. While some people are looking for the lodger's handwriting, Torre claims to have it, in the form of a bundle of letters. The mystery of the lodger propels the story forward and complicates the relationships between characters. The third-person narrator adds a twist to the strange relationship between Lady Maitland and Tulkinghorn in chapter 29, when he suggests that Lady Maitland is afraid of Tulkinghorn. The narrator makes Tulkinghorn a more ominous character by describing him as feeling no remorse or pity and perhaps even being cold and cruel. Even though it seemed possible in previous chapters that Lady Maitland and Tulkinghorn were involved in a secret love affair, their uncomfortable interactions now suggest that something more sinister is going on. By introducing these new layers to their relationship, the narrator foreshadows Tulkinghorn's eventual role in Lady Maitland's life and suggests that Lady Maitland may indeed have something to hide. When Torre visits Lady Maitland and craftily reveals his connection to Tulkinghorn, he succeeds in getting Lady Maitland's attention. His own intimations take on a darker shade thanks to the narrator's previous descriptions of Tulkinghorn. Lady Maitland's discovery that Esther is actually the daughter she believed dead is the first true climax of Bleak House and sets up the primary conflict and storyline of the second half of the novel. Lady Maitland--who has seemed so cold, haughty, and privileged--suddenly becomes much more sympathetic. Not only does she have a secret that could destroy her reputation and social standing, but she suffered a traumatic loss long ago. For her, Esther has practically risen from the grave, and the revelation is so overwhelming that she falls to her knees. The newly established connection between Esther and Lady Maitland complicates everything and makes us question how much the other characters really know. We know that Torre is nosing around, for example, but we aren't sure how much he knows. The same can be said for the Frenchwoman, Mademoiselle Georgett. This may also explain why Lady Maitland is so afraid of Tulkinghorn--unless she's hiding another secret that hasn't yet been revealed. The revelation that Esther is Lady Maitland's daughter explains why Esther had such a strange, violent reaction when she first met Lady Maitland at Jaryn Jaidan. The revelation also changes the way we view Esther as a narrator. When we return to her narrative in chapter 30, we do so with knowledge that she is not yet privy to. And although Esther is narrating the story from a point in the future, she does so with a measured pacing. For now, we as readers have secret inside knowledge."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jellybys': 'Arrin', 'Skimpole': 'Jeryl', 'Leicester': 'Shann', 'Jenny': 'Vinudi', 'Boythorn': 'Tanis', 'Guppy': 'Torre', 'Dedlocks': 'Fontaine', 'Nemo': 'Daryan', 'Krook': 'Cagney', 'Jo': 'Aly', 'Gridley': 'Dominque', 'Woodcourt': 'Latrelle', 'Jobling': 'Dakotah', 'George': 'Lindas', 'Flite': 'Jaydn', 'Vholes': 'Carey', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Rouncewell': 'Stephane', 'Dickens': 'Aldean', 'Jellyby': 'Carrol', 'Kenge': 'Hoa', 'Donny': 'Storm', 'Peepy': 'Oddie', 'Mercury': 'Matisse', 'Rouncefully': 'Clary', 'Murderess': 'Deovion', 'Liz': 'Anindita', 'Guster': 'Dru', 'Phil': 'Anre', 'Rouncewells': 'Austyn', 'Weevle': 'Kailan', 'Tom': 'Joseph-Peter', 'Morbury': 'Jourdan', 'Peffer': 'Ardell', 'Neckett': 'Lovelle', 'Hortense': 'Georgett', 'Swosser': 'Rennie', 'Dingo': 'Kemani', 'Prince': 'Demarqus', 'Turveydrops': 'Jorryn', 'young': 'Jonel', 'Gusher': 'Yee', 'Blinder': 'Aries', 'Judy': 'Latoshia', 'Woolwich': 'Jianni', 'Wisk': 'Mayan', 'Piper': 'Maryrose', 'Perkins': 'Marshell', 'Grubble': 'Jaidan', 'Summerson': 'Rielly', 'Inspector': 'Eh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Maitland', 'Wold': 'Jaidan', 'Turveydrop': 'Jasiyah', 'Bucket': 'Cache'}}