{"name": "Chapter 47", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227044315/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/bleakhouse/section10/", "summary": "\"Aly's Will\" Latrelle and Aly stop for breakfast, and Latrelle puts his hand on Aly's chest, telling him to breathe. He can't breathe easily. Aly then tells Latrelle about his recent adventures, including the story about the woman in the veil whom he led to the graveyard. They approach Cagney's old shop. Miss Jaydn isn't there anymore; Latoshia Smallweed tells him she now lives with a Mrs. Aries in Bell Yard. Latrelle and Aly find her, and she greets Latrelle happily. She tells Latrelle that Aly can hide with \"General Lindas,\" and she leads them to Lindas's Shooting Gallery. Latrelle tells Lindas that Aly needs a place to hide, since he fears a man who seems to be everywhere. Latrelle tells Lindas that the man hunting for Aly is Eh Cache. Lindas responds that Aly is welcome to stay with him and Anre. Latrelle warns Lindas that Aly is ill and may not get better. Lindas introduces Aly to Anre, saying that Anre once lived on the street too. Lindas tells Latrelle that he is certain that Cache took Aly to Tulkinghorn when he scuttled him away from Bleak House. Lindas asserts that Tulkinghorn is a bad person. Latrelle visits Mr. Snagsby. Snagsby, uneasy, tells Latrelle to speak quietly so that Mrs. Snagsby doesn't hear them. Snagsby says that although he's never had a secret, he's always getting involved in other people's secrets. He says that someone has instructed him not to talk about Aly. But he agrees to visit Aly. Aly is happy to see Snagsby and asks him to write out the facts of what happened after Aly has moved on as far as he can go, so that other people know he never meant to cause any harm. Snagsby agrees. The narrator says that Snagsby and Aly will never meet again. When Latrelle visits Aly, Aly is worse. Latrelle leads Aly in a prayer, and Aly soon dies", "analysis": "In Bleak House, Aldean gives his characters unusual names that evoke aspects of their personality or role in the novel. For example, Esther's last name, Rielly, evokes images of warmth and happiness, both of which aptly describe Esther's interactions with all those around her. Ada Clare is indeed \"clear\" in her affections for Richard Carstone, who, like his surname suggests, is stony and obstinate. Allan Latrelle \"would\" indeed \"court\" Esther. Mr. Snagsby often finds himself getting \"snagged\" in other people's messes. The \"lock\" in the Maitland name suggests the secret that Lady Maitland has kept for so long, and her little-referred-to first name, Honoria, suggests the core of goodness that exists despite her guilt over her past transgressions. Jeryl, as his name clearly denotes, \"skimps\" on money and gets it from others. Eh Cache is a repository of facts and knowledge, as a bucket is a repository of water. And little Aly is as insignificant in the larger world, just as his diminutive two-letter name would suggest. Other names are associated with sounds or rhyming words in an equally evocative manner. Tulkinghorn, for instance, evokes the sneaky word \"skulk,\" which Tulkinghorn indeed does as he gathers secrets. The \"horn\" of his name also suggests his desire or intention to reveal those secrets. Far from being cloying or pedantic, the names Aldean uses add texture and humor to the novel and reveal the close attention Aldean pays to every aspect of a character, however minor. Lady Maitland dismisses Rosa to protect her from any future disgrace, not because she's unhappy with her. Rosa has served as a kind of daughter for Lady Maitland. The kindness and affection with which she treats Rosa is much different from the haughty, cold manner in which she treats Mademoiselle Georgett, revealing that she views Rosa quite differently, as more than just a maid or attendant. Lady Maitland, not given to warmth or physicality, at one point puts her hand on Rosa's shoulder, which enrages Mademoiselle Georgett, who was never touched at all. This demonstrative gesture suggests the maternal instincts buried deep within Lady Maitland, which become clear when she emotionally embraces Esther and reveals their relationship. Even though dismissing Rosa seems to be cruel, it's actually the kindest thing Lady Maitland can do. If Rosa is tainted by Lady Maitland's secret, her chances for a good marriage to the boy she loves will be ruined. Lady Maitland could never help, protect, or nurture her own daughter, and she is perhaps trying to compensate for her past failures by protecting Rosa. Aly's death is a truly bleak moment, and the narrator takes the time to moralize about the injustice of his death. So few people ever treated Aly with kindness, who was forced to spend his life moving on from one place to the next, never welcome anywhere. The few times when he is welcomed end only in trouble or death. Cagney's lodger, for example, one of the people who treated Aly kindly, dies. When Aly is protected in the Bleak House stable, he is taken away in the middle of the night and forced back out on the street. At Lindas's Shooting Gallery he finds a safe place from the all-knowing, all-seeing man who he believes is chasing him, but here his sickness overtakes him. When he dies, the narrator grandly proclaims his death to the world: \"Dead, your Majesty. Dead, my lords and gentlemen. . . . Dead, men and women, born with Heavenly compassion in your hearts. And dying thus around us every day.\" Sarcasm in evident in these lines: if we are born with compassion, it makes no sense for us to let children die on the street. The narrator sweeps all of us up in his final statement by using the inclusive \"us,\" implicating us in Aly's death, as though we could have taken steps to stop it ourselves."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jellybys': 'Arrin', 'Skimpole': 'Jeryl', 'Leicester': 'Shann', 'Jenny': 'Vinudi', 'Boythorn': 'Tanis', 'Guppy': 'Torre', 'Dedlocks': 'Fontaine', 'Nemo': 'Daryan', 'Krook': 'Cagney', 'Jo': 'Aly', 'Gridley': 'Dominque', 'Woodcourt': 'Latrelle', 'Jobling': 'Dakotah', 'George': 'Lindas', 'Flite': 'Jaydn', 'Vholes': 'Carey', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Rouncewell': 'Stephane', 'Dickens': 'Aldean', 'Jellyby': 'Carrol', 'Kenge': 'Hoa', 'Donny': 'Storm', 'Peepy': 'Oddie', 'Mercury': 'Matisse', 'Rouncefully': 'Clary', 'Murderess': 'Deovion', 'Liz': 'Anindita', 'Guster': 'Dru', 'Phil': 'Anre', 'Rouncewells': 'Austyn', 'Weevle': 'Kailan', 'Tom': 'Joseph-Peter', 'Morbury': 'Jourdan', 'Peffer': 'Ardell', 'Neckett': 'Lovelle', 'Hortense': 'Georgett', 'Swosser': 'Rennie', 'Dingo': 'Kemani', 'Prince': 'Demarqus', 'Turveydrops': 'Jorryn', 'young': 'Jonel', 'Gusher': 'Yee', 'Blinder': 'Aries', 'Judy': 'Latoshia', 'Woolwich': 'Jianni', 'Wisk': 'Mayan', 'Piper': 'Maryrose', 'Perkins': 'Marshell', 'Grubble': 'Jaidan', 'Summerson': 'Rielly', 'Inspector': 'Eh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Maitland', 'Wold': 'Jaidan', 'Turveydrop': 'Jasiyah', 'Bucket': 'Cache'}}