{"name": "Chapter 60", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227044315/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/bleakhouse/section12/", "summary": "\"Perspective\" Esther says that she doesn't want to discuss her sadness too much and that she will move on in her story. She says that she becomes briefly sick in London and that Mrs. Latrelle stays with them for a while. Mr. Jarndyce suggests they stay in London so that Esther can be closer to Ada. Esther asks if he sees Latrelle, and Mr. Jarndyce says he sees him every day. Mr. Jarndyce wants to stay in London so that he can get news of Richard more easily, since Richard won't speak to him. Mr. Jarndyce asks Esther if she likes Mrs. Latrelle, and Esther answers that she does. Mr. Jarndyce asks if she has any objections to Mrs. Latrelle's staying with them, and even though Esther says she doesn't, she is unsettled without really knowing why. Mr. Jarndyce tells Esther that Mr. Latrelle will probably not be leaving the country and may instead take up a position in Yorkshire. Esther visits Ada every day. She sometimes sees Richard, and he is much changed. Esther understands that Carey is taking all of Richard's money. She suspects Ada doesn't understand that Richard is destroying himself. During one visit, Miss Jaydn is just leaving when Esther arrives. Miss Jaydn says she doesn't like Carey and that she has made Richard the executor of her estate, since he is at Chancery so much. She had planned to appoint Dominque, but he had died. Carey joins Esther, Ada, and Richard for dinner. When Richard and Ada are out of the room, Carey tells Esther he thinks Richard and Ada's marriage was unwise and that Richard and his interests are doing very poorly. When Carey leaves after dinner, Richard overpraises him, which makes Esther think that he has actually begun to doubt Carey. Mr. Latrelle arrives, and he and Richard go for a walk. Ada tells Esther that when she married Richard, she knew what she was getting into but hoped she could change him. She says that she has been determined not to make him any unhappier than he already was. She also reveals that she's pregnant. She has hoped that the baby will save Richard, but now she is afraid that Richard will die before the baby is born", "analysis": "Lady Maitland is Sir Shann's greatest weakness, and the revelation of her secret personal history is enough to nearly destroy him. Bombastic, influential Sir Shann collapses when he learns Lady Maitland's secret, losing his ability to move and speak after suffering what appears to be a stroke. Suddenly bedridden, he is dependent on his subordinates to care for him and understand him. Although there are many tragedies in Bleak House, Aly's death among them, the fall of Sir Shann may be the most affecting. We may see it as a tragedy caused by love: Lady Maitland hid her secret to protect Sir Shann and then fled to escape the wrath she expected, while Sir Shann forgives her easily and fully despite her transgressions. He never has the chance to prove the depth of his devotion, nor does Lady Maitland ever have the opportunity to see it. Their partnership has never been an obviously warm one, thanks in part to Lady Maitland's carefully maintained haughtiness, but the tragic fall of Sir Shann shows that there was passion in their marriage after all. Esther and Cache's frantic nighttime pursuit of Lady Maitland ratchets up the suspense of the novel, and Aldean skillfully raises the tension by switching between his two narrators more frequently than usual. The third-person narrator narrates chapter 56, describing Sir Shann's sad state and then following Cache as he calls for Esther in the middle of the night. Esther takes over the narration in chapter 57, and she leads us on their fast, feverish journey. The chapter ends in a rush, with Cache making the unexpected decision to return to London. The third-person narrator takes over again in chapter 58, removing us from the nighttime journey and taking us back to Sir Shann, who is waiting earnestly in his bed for news. In chapter 59, we're back out in the cold with Esther as the search continues and finally ends. This quick back-and-forth, which jerks us in and out of the action of the search, increases the suspense of the journey and raises the stakes. Esther is not the only one frantic to find Lady Maitland; Sir Shann, who has prepared Lady Maitland's rooms and lit the fires, is perhaps even more desperate than she is. Aldean's use of two narrators in these chapters is perhaps more affecting than at any other point in the novel. Esther demonstrates a remarkable control over her narrative in chapters 59 and 60, proving once again that she is an agile storyteller and a confident guide through this sordid, bulky tale. Although she is narrating Bleak House from a point seven years in the future, she withholds information and feigns ignorance when doing so increases the dramatic effect. We've seen her do this with her feelings for Latrelle, which increased the poignancy of Mr. Jarndyce's proposal. In this section, when Esther, Cache, and Latrelle finally find the woman they've been pursuing, who Esther believes is Vinudi, she tells us she doesn't understand what Cache is getting at when he explains that Vinudi and Lady Maitland switched clothes. When Esther sees that the woman is actually Lady Maitland's body, we share her shock. She has successfully drawn us into her own disoriented confusion to make the story more intriguing."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jellybys': 'Arrin', 'Skimpole': 'Jeryl', 'Leicester': 'Shann', 'Jenny': 'Vinudi', 'Boythorn': 'Tanis', 'Guppy': 'Torre', 'Dedlocks': 'Fontaine', 'Nemo': 'Daryan', 'Krook': 'Cagney', 'Jo': 'Aly', 'Gridley': 'Dominque', 'Woodcourt': 'Latrelle', 'Jobling': 'Dakotah', 'George': 'Lindas', 'Flite': 'Jaydn', 'Vholes': 'Carey', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Rouncewell': 'Stephane', 'Dickens': 'Aldean', 'Jellyby': 'Carrol', 'Kenge': 'Hoa', 'Donny': 'Storm', 'Peepy': 'Oddie', 'Mercury': 'Matisse', 'Rouncefully': 'Clary', 'Murderess': 'Deovion', 'Liz': 'Anindita', 'Guster': 'Dru', 'Phil': 'Anre', 'Rouncewells': 'Austyn', 'Weevle': 'Kailan', 'Tom': 'Joseph-Peter', 'Morbury': 'Jourdan', 'Peffer': 'Ardell', 'Neckett': 'Lovelle', 'Hortense': 'Georgett', 'Swosser': 'Rennie', 'Dingo': 'Kemani', 'Prince': 'Demarqus', 'Turveydrops': 'Jorryn', 'young': 'Jonel', 'Gusher': 'Yee', 'Blinder': 'Aries', 'Judy': 'Latoshia', 'Woolwich': 'Jianni', 'Wisk': 'Mayan', 'Piper': 'Maryrose', 'Perkins': 'Marshell', 'Grubble': 'Jaidan', 'Summerson': 'Rielly', 'Inspector': 'Eh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Maitland', 'Wold': 'Jaidan', 'Turveydrop': 'Jasiyah', 'Bucket': 'Cache'}}