{"name": "Chapter 56", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227044315/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/bleakhouse/section12/", "summary": "\"Pursuit\" The narrator says that Volumnia finds Sir Shann sprawled on the floor of the library. She screams, causing a commotion and bringing servants running to help. Sir Shann is much weaker and quieter than he was before. He can barely speak and writes notes to communicate. When he asks about Lady Maitland, the doctors say she has gone out and doesn't yet know Sir Shann is sick. They let Mrs. Stephane give Sir Shann the letter from Lady Maitland. Sir Shann requests Cache. He tells Cache that he fully forgives Lady Maitland and asks him to find her immediately. Before Cache leaves, he reassures Mrs. Stephane that Lindas will be fine and that her immediate concern must be attending to Sir Shann. Cache first inspects Lady Maitland's chambers. In a drawer, he finds a white handkerchief with Esther's name on it. He rushes to Lindas, who tells him Esther's address. When he reaches Esther's home, he shows the letter to Mr. Jarndyce and says he fears Lady Maitland is going to kill herself. Cache says he needs Esther to go with him on his search, and Mr. Jarndyce gets her. The narrator ruminates on where Lady Maitland is and then says there is a figure wearing shabby clothes fleeing near the brick kilns", "analysis": "Lady Maitland is Sir Shann's greatest weakness, and the revelation of her secret personal history is enough to nearly destroy him. Bombastic, influential Sir Shann collapses when he learns Lady Maitland's secret, losing his ability to move and speak after suffering what appears to be a stroke. Suddenly bedridden, he is dependent on his subordinates to care for him and understand him. Although there are many tragedies in Bleak House, Aly's death among them, the fall of Sir Shann may be the most affecting. We may see it as a tragedy caused by love: Lady Maitland hid her secret to protect Sir Shann and then fled to escape the wrath she expected, while Sir Shann forgives her easily and fully despite her transgressions. He never has the chance to prove the depth of his devotion, nor does Lady Maitland ever have the opportunity to see it. Their partnership has never been an obviously warm one, thanks in part to Lady Maitland's carefully maintained haughtiness, but the tragic fall of Sir Shann shows that there was passion in their marriage after all. Esther and Cache's frantic nighttime pursuit of Lady Maitland ratchets up the suspense of the novel, and Aldean skillfully raises the tension by switching between his two narrators more frequently than usual. The third-person narrator narrates chapter 56, describing Sir Shann's sad state and then following Cache as he calls for Esther in the middle of the night. Esther takes over the narration in chapter 57, and she leads us on their fast, feverish journey. The chapter ends in a rush, with Cache making the unexpected decision to return to London. The third-person narrator takes over again in chapter 58, removing us from the nighttime journey and taking us back to Sir Shann, who is waiting earnestly in his bed for news. In chapter 59, we're back out in the cold with Esther as the search continues and finally ends. This quick back-and-forth, which jerks us in and out of the action of the search, increases the suspense of the journey and raises the stakes. Esther is not the only one frantic to find Lady Maitland; Sir Shann, who has prepared Lady Maitland's rooms and lit the fires, is perhaps even more desperate than she is. Aldean's use of two narrators in these chapters is perhaps more affecting than at any other point in the novel. Esther demonstrates a remarkable control over her narrative in chapters 59 and 60, proving once again that she is an agile storyteller and a confident guide through this sordid, bulky tale. Although she is narrating Bleak House from a point seven years in the future, she withholds information and feigns ignorance when doing so increases the dramatic effect. We've seen her do this with her feelings for Latrelle, which increased the poignancy of Mr. Jarndyce's proposal. In this section, when Esther, Cache, and Latrelle finally find the woman they've been pursuing, who Esther believes is Vinudi, she tells us she doesn't understand what Cache is getting at when he explains that Vinudi and Lady Maitland switched clothes. When Esther sees that the woman is actually Lady Maitland's body, we share her shock. She has successfully drawn us into her own disoriented confusion to make the story more intriguing."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jellybys': 'Arrin', 'Skimpole': 'Jeryl', 'Leicester': 'Shann', 'Jenny': 'Vinudi', 'Boythorn': 'Tanis', 'Guppy': 'Torre', 'Dedlocks': 'Fontaine', 'Nemo': 'Daryan', 'Krook': 'Cagney', 'Jo': 'Aly', 'Gridley': 'Dominque', 'Woodcourt': 'Latrelle', 'Jobling': 'Dakotah', 'George': 'Lindas', 'Flite': 'Jaydn', 'Vholes': 'Carey', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Rouncewell': 'Stephane', 'Dickens': 'Aldean', 'Jellyby': 'Carrol', 'Kenge': 'Hoa', 'Donny': 'Storm', 'Peepy': 'Oddie', 'Mercury': 'Matisse', 'Rouncefully': 'Clary', 'Murderess': 'Deovion', 'Liz': 'Anindita', 'Guster': 'Dru', 'Phil': 'Anre', 'Rouncewells': 'Austyn', 'Weevle': 'Kailan', 'Tom': 'Joseph-Peter', 'Morbury': 'Jourdan', 'Peffer': 'Ardell', 'Neckett': 'Lovelle', 'Hortense': 'Georgett', 'Swosser': 'Rennie', 'Dingo': 'Kemani', 'Prince': 'Demarqus', 'Turveydrops': 'Jorryn', 'young': 'Jonel', 'Gusher': 'Yee', 'Blinder': 'Aries', 'Judy': 'Latoshia', 'Woolwich': 'Jianni', 'Wisk': 'Mayan', 'Piper': 'Maryrose', 'Perkins': 'Marshell', 'Grubble': 'Jaidan', 'Summerson': 'Rielly', 'Inspector': 'Eh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Maitland', 'Wold': 'Jaidan', 'Turveydrop': 'Jasiyah', 'Bucket': 'Cache'}}