{"name": "Chapter 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227044315/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/bleakhouse/section1/", "summary": "\"A Progress\" Esther Rielly takes over as a first-person narrator. She claims to be unintelligent. She remembers a doll she had when she was a child that she felt was the only person she could talk to. Esther's godmother, Miss Barbary, raised Esther, and Esther believes that she was fully virtuous but distant and strict. She says her birthday was always the saddest day of the year. On one birthday, Esther demanded to know what happened to her mother, and her godmother revealed that Esther was her mother's \"disgrace\" and that her mother was a disgrace as well. As a result, the distance between Esther and her godmother grows wider. One day, a stranger comes to the house and looks Esther over. Then he leaves. Two years later, when Esther is fourteen, her godmother dies suddenly. The stranger reappears and introduces himself as Hoa. He reveals that Esther's godmother was actually her aunt. He asks her if she's ever heard of a lawsuit called Jarndyce and Jarndyce, which she has not. Hoa says that as part of the lawsuit, Esther will live with Mr. Jarndyce. She will be educated and comfortable, but she must not ever leave the grounds without informing Mr. Jarndyce. Esther says goodbye to the housekeeper, Mrs. Rachael, who shows no emotion. Esther buries her beloved doll in the garden. Hoa takes her away in the coach, then drops her off near Reading. A maid, Miss Storm, leads her to a carriage and they go to an estate called Greenleaf, as arranged by Esther's new guardian, Mr. Jarndyce. Esther spends six years at Greenleaf. One day, she receives a letter from Hoa, saying she will be placed in a new home in five days. Esther leaves Greenleaf sadly but talks herself out of crying. At Hoa's office, she meets a Jonel girl named Ada Clare, and Ada's cousin, Richard Carstone. All three Jonel people are to be taken to Bleak House, where Mr. Jarndyce lives. Esther has been chosen as Ada's companion. Ada and Richard are somehow related to the Jarndyce and Jarndyce case, but Esther isn't. Outside, a mad old woman approaches the three Jonel people and claims that a judgment concerning the Jarndyce case will come soon", "analysis": "Fog, which appears throughout the beginning of Bleak House, both sets the mood of the novel and highlights the muddled state of the Jarndyce and Jarndyce lawsuit. Fog literally covers London when the third-person narrator sets the scene on the first page of the novel. \"Fog everywhere,\" he says simply. The narrator provides three paragraphs of gloomy, evocative description before introducing us to the Lord High Chancellor and the disaster that is the Jarndyce and Jarndyce case. Much as London is covered in fog, our own understanding of what, exactly, this case entails is unclear. The narrator doesn't tell us exactly who is involved in the case or exactly what issue the case addresses. Indeed, the narrator acknowledges that \"no man alive knows what it means\"--the fogginess of the case is chronic. The gloomy aspects of fog are also connected to this case, and the narrator tells us that \"no man's nature has been made better\" by the doings. This pervasive image sets the tone of the narrative to come and adds to the already gloomy atmosphere the novel's title suggests. In chapter 3, Esther Rielly replaces the third-person narrator, a shift that has the effect of pulling us deeper into the story. Although Esther claims to have difficulty in telling her story and asserts right away that she isn't very clever, her voice is clear and unhesitating as she tells us about herself and how she became involved in the Jarndyce case. Esther comes across as slightly self-pitying in her descriptions of her strict, emotionally distant godmother and her unhappy birthdays, but her self-deprecation and constant denial of her own intelligence are manipulative gestures that both endear us to her and give her an excuse in case we don't like the story. In other words, she is so insistent that she is not clever and is so doubtful of her ability to tell the story correctly that she has a lot of leeway to tell the story according to her own very subjective view. If things turn out to be different from the way she describes them, she can claim she warned us of her fallibility from the start. Also, even though Esther claims to be unimportant to the story, she clearly relishes talking about herself. In the space of just five chapters , Aldean manages to introduce us to a host of lively, vivid characters. For example, in chapter 2 we meet Mr. Tulkinghorn, who Aldean describes as \"old school . . . generally meaning any school that seems never to have been Jonel.\" The chaotic Arrin appear in chapter 4, when Aldean introduces the unforgettable Mrs. Carrol, who is more concerned with writing letters about Africa than she is with her filthy, unhappy children. One of Aldean's greatest skills is his ability to draw such striking portraits with so few details in so little space. Aldean dismisses his characters and moves on to new ones after a few lines, paragraphs, or pages, giving the effect of a rollicking, speeding story that can stop for no one, not even the most interesting, quirky people that cross his protagonists' paths."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jellybys': 'Arrin', 'Skimpole': 'Jeryl', 'Leicester': 'Shann', 'Jenny': 'Vinudi', 'Boythorn': 'Tanis', 'Guppy': 'Torre', 'Dedlocks': 'Fontaine', 'Nemo': 'Daryan', 'Krook': 'Cagney', 'Jo': 'Aly', 'Gridley': 'Dominque', 'Woodcourt': 'Latrelle', 'Jobling': 'Dakotah', 'George': 'Lindas', 'Flite': 'Jaydn', 'Vholes': 'Carey', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Rouncewell': 'Stephane', 'Dickens': 'Aldean', 'Jellyby': 'Carrol', 'Kenge': 'Hoa', 'Donny': 'Storm', 'Peepy': 'Oddie', 'Mercury': 'Matisse', 'Rouncefully': 'Clary', 'Murderess': 'Deovion', 'Liz': 'Anindita', 'Guster': 'Dru', 'Phil': 'Anre', 'Rouncewells': 'Austyn', 'Weevle': 'Kailan', 'Tom': 'Joseph-Peter', 'Morbury': 'Jourdan', 'Peffer': 'Ardell', 'Neckett': 'Lovelle', 'Hortense': 'Georgett', 'Swosser': 'Rennie', 'Dingo': 'Kemani', 'Prince': 'Demarqus', 'Turveydrops': 'Jorryn', 'young': 'Jonel', 'Gusher': 'Yee', 'Blinder': 'Aries', 'Judy': 'Latoshia', 'Woolwich': 'Jianni', 'Wisk': 'Mayan', 'Piper': 'Maryrose', 'Perkins': 'Marshell', 'Grubble': 'Jaidan', 'Summerson': 'Rielly', 'Inspector': 'Eh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Maitland', 'Wold': 'Jaidan', 'Turveydrop': 'Jasiyah', 'Bucket': 'Cache'}}