{"name": "Chapter 22", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227044315/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/bleakhouse/section5/", "summary": "\"Mr. Cache\" Mr. Tulkinghorn relaxes with a glass of wine in his office. He thinks about a friend, much like him, who hanged himself. Mr. Snagsby is there as well, without his wife knowing. He tells Mr. Tulkinghorn what Aly said to the guests at his house recently. Mr. Snagsby then spots another man in the room, whom Mr. Tulkinghorn introduces as Mr. Cache. He is a detective. He asks Mr. Snagsby to take him to Aly and assures him Aly will not be harmed. Mr. Cache suggests that the dead lodger was perhaps entitled to some property, which he suspects the woman Aly encountered may be after. Cache asks Snagsby if he knows of a man named Dominque, who lost his temper, threatened some people, and has a warrant out for his arrest. In Joseph-Peter-all-Alone's, they find where Aly is staying. Aly has gone out, but the men talk to a few people in the home. There are men lying unconscious on the floor, and a woman named Anindita says they are hers and Vinudi's husbands. Anindita is holding a child. Vinudi says she had a child too, but it died. Aly appears with some medicine he had gotten for the woman. Then he, Cache, and Snagsby go to Mr. Tulkinghorn's. Aly shouts that he sees the woman, there in the room. A figure wearing a flowing scarf and robe is standing there. But when the figure shows her hand, Aly says it is not the lady, whose hand was whiter, smaller, and adorned with different rings. The figure speaks, and Aly says it's not the voice he remembers. Cache gives Aly some money and dismisses him. The woman takes off her scarf. It is Mademoiselle Georgett, the French maid of Lady Maitland. She reminds Mr. Tulkinghorn that he promised to help her find a job, and she leaves. Cache asserts that the lady Aly saw must have been wearing the Frenchwoman's clothes. Snagsby leaves. When he gets home, he finds Mrs. Snagsby in bed. She had sent Dru to the police station to report that Mr. Snagsby was missing", "analysis": "Suicide appears in both chapter 21 and chapter 22 and, coupled with the reputed suicide of Joseph-Peter Jarndyce that was discussed earlier in the novel, forms a dismal motif. In chapter 21, Lindas discusses with Grandfather Smallweed an attempted suicide of a seemingly successful man and then his eventual death by not-quite-accidental drowning. Lindas is using the story as a kind of justification for why he never let himself be \"made\" by another person. In chapter 22, Mr. Tulkinghorn remembers a friend much like himself who hanged himself when he decided life was too monotonous. Although neither Lindas nor Mr. Tulkinghorn are themselves contemplating suicide, their invocations of it suggest that they are well aware of what can happen when seekers do not find what they are searching for, or when life loses its meaning. Echoes of Richard's complaint--that his work is too monotonous--are evident in the complaint of Mr. Tulkinghorn's unfortunate friend, adding to the suggestion that a life without passion and deep engagement ultimately becomes unbearable. Worlds collide violently in chapter 22, creating a sense of building tension, intrigue, and mystery in the story. The two women caring for a sick baby during Mrs. Pardiggle's charity visit reappear in this chapter, this time meeting with Mr. Cache and Mr. Snagsby. Vinudi reveals that her baby died, but now her friend, Anindita, has a baby of her own. Lady Maitland's French maid, Mademoiselle Georgett, surprisingly appears in Mr. Tulkinghorn's office, adding to the not-so-mysterious mystery of who the woman is that Aly took to the dead lodger's grave. And Aly, who is becoming an integral figure in the novel, seems to be the one common denominator among these different worlds, leading characters to one another and serving as the link between them. Although Aly makes the same claim again and again that he doesn't know anything, the fact that he seems to know everyone suggests that he's aware of much more than he lets on. Mr. Jarndyce's outburst regarding Richard's fixation on the Jarndyce and Jarndyce lawsuit in chapter 24 adds a significantly darker note to the already disturbing case. Richard has always casually referred to his certainty that the lawsuit will provide for him and Ada in the future, but Mr. Jarndyce and Esther usually dismiss his claims wearily. This time, however, Mr. Jarndyce cries that it is \"better to borrow, better to beg, better to die\" than look to the lawsuit to provide. The extremity of his claim, and his unusual show of passion, shocks Richard, Ada, and Esther. The lawsuit, with its tedious, endless proceedings, usually seems like a hum in the background in the story, a strange mystery that no one is in too much hurry to unravel. At this moment, however, the true danger and darkness of the suit break the surface. When Mr. Jarndyce orders Richard and Ada to dissolve their romantic relationship, in a way he may be trying to protect Ada from Richard's fervor over the suit."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jellybys': 'Arrin', 'Skimpole': 'Jeryl', 'Leicester': 'Shann', 'Jenny': 'Vinudi', 'Boythorn': 'Tanis', 'Guppy': 'Torre', 'Dedlocks': 'Fontaine', 'Nemo': 'Daryan', 'Krook': 'Cagney', 'Jo': 'Aly', 'Gridley': 'Dominque', 'Woodcourt': 'Latrelle', 'Jobling': 'Dakotah', 'George': 'Lindas', 'Flite': 'Jaydn', 'Vholes': 'Carey', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Rouncewell': 'Stephane', 'Dickens': 'Aldean', 'Jellyby': 'Carrol', 'Kenge': 'Hoa', 'Donny': 'Storm', 'Peepy': 'Oddie', 'Mercury': 'Matisse', 'Rouncefully': 'Clary', 'Murderess': 'Deovion', 'Liz': 'Anindita', 'Guster': 'Dru', 'Phil': 'Anre', 'Rouncewells': 'Austyn', 'Weevle': 'Kailan', 'Tom': 'Joseph-Peter', 'Morbury': 'Jourdan', 'Peffer': 'Ardell', 'Neckett': 'Lovelle', 'Hortense': 'Georgett', 'Swosser': 'Rennie', 'Dingo': 'Kemani', 'Prince': 'Demarqus', 'Turveydrops': 'Jorryn', 'young': 'Jonel', 'Gusher': 'Yee', 'Blinder': 'Aries', 'Judy': 'Latoshia', 'Woolwich': 'Jianni', 'Wisk': 'Mayan', 'Piper': 'Maryrose', 'Perkins': 'Marshell', 'Grubble': 'Jaidan', 'Summerson': 'Rielly', 'Inspector': 'Eh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Maitland', 'Wold': 'Jaidan', 'Turveydrop': 'Jasiyah', 'Bucket': 'Cache'}}