{"name": "Chapter 36", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227044315/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/bleakhouse/section8/", "summary": "\"Jaryn Jaidan\" Esther, Charley, and Mr. Jarndyce go to Lincolnshire to stay at Mr. Tanis's house. Esther cares for Mr. Tanis's bird while she's there. When she's alone, she looks in a mirror for the first time and sees her scarred face, barely recognizing herself. She believes her beauty has entirely disappeared. Esther confesses that she has secretly kept Mr. Latrelle's flowers. She decides to keep them still, to remind herself of her former beauty. Esther and Charley stay outdoors all day, to help restore Esther's health. They ride horses through town and stop to rest at Esther's favorite place in the woods. Though Jaryn Jaidan is very close, Esther says she never ventured close to it, for no good reason. One day, Esther spots Lady Maitland approaching in the woods. Lady Maitland approaches her and inquires about her health. Esther is shocked to see Lady Maitland holding her handkerchief, the one she'd given to Vinudi. Instantly understanding, Esther sends Charley away, and Lady Maitland cries and says she is Esther's mother. Lady Maitland begs for Esther's forgiveness and says that she must continue to keep this secret for Sir Shann's sake. Lady Maitland is overcome with grief and guilt but says they can never communicate again. Esther asks if the secret is safe, and Lady Maitland says that Tulkinghorn may reveal it soon. She tells Esther to confide in Mr. Jarndyce if she wishes. Esther tells us that Lady Maitland gives her a letter but says that she'll tell us the contents of the letter another time. Ada arrives at Lincolnshire and has no negative reaction to Esther's changed appearance", "analysis": "When Esther looks at herself in the mirror and sees her scarred face for the first time, she reveals her vulnerability more than at any other point in the novel. Never one to indulge in self-pity, she plainly observes that even though she had never been beautiful, what little beauty she had is now gone completely. The simplicity of her statement--\"It was all gone now\"--is characteristic of Esther's clear, direct narrative style, but it also reveals how deeply she feels the loss. No matter how fond others are of her, no amount of affection, love, or respect can alter the fact that her face has been ruined. Although she goes on once again to count her blessings and get over her sadness determinedly, this plain statement suggests that there is great pain beneath Esther's relentless cheerfulness. Her decision to keep Mr. Latrelle's flowers also suggests the depth of her sadness. Although she claims to be fully content with her lot in life, she keeps the flowers to remind her of how she used to look. She may go on with her life uncomplainingly, but she does not go on without a secret reserve of regret. The revelatory confrontation between Lady Maitland and Esther brings a secret to the surface, but their brief encounter focuses on the necessity of protecting that secret still further. Esther divines Lady Maitland's secret as soon as she sees the handkerchief and, like Lady Maitland, is overcome with violent emotion. Their happiness at finding each other is brief, and the overarching tone of this encounter is fearful. Esther is unsettled to see Lady Maitland at her feet, asking her forgiveness. Lady Maitland is newly consumed by her own guilt, referring to the \"dark road\" she must follow and declaring herself to be \"wretched and dishonoring.\" Lady Maitland's fear of being discovered overshadows any happiness or relief she may feel at finally revealing her secret. She has just connected with the daughter she thought was dead, and yet she asserts that they can never meet or talk again. She is almost looking over her shoulder as they speak, and she and Esther conspire about who suspects their relationship. Both vow to keep the secret at all costs, and while they can't pursue a public relationship, this secret binds them together. The narrator's scathing portrayal of Mr. Carey in chapter 38 indicts the legal system as a self-perpetuating waste and lawyers as cannibals. The narrator draws an analogy that directly connects Carey and his family to \"cannibal chiefs\" and says, \"Make man-eating un-lawful, and you starve the Careyes!\" The endless Jarndyce and Jarndyce lawsuit is a dream job for Carey, since the case will never end and Carey can extract money from Richard indefinitely. The narrator is not subtle in his descriptions, leaving no question that Carey is immoral, untrustworthy, and dangerous. These views are underscored by the narrator's repetition of the statement, \"Mr. Carey is a very respectable man.\" The more we know about Carey, the more sarcastic this statement becomes. Because of men like Carey, the legal system has ceased to serve the people and instead serves only the scheming lawyers who want to make themselves rich."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jellybys': 'Arrin', 'Skimpole': 'Jeryl', 'Leicester': 'Shann', 'Jenny': 'Vinudi', 'Boythorn': 'Tanis', 'Guppy': 'Torre', 'Dedlocks': 'Fontaine', 'Nemo': 'Daryan', 'Krook': 'Cagney', 'Jo': 'Aly', 'Gridley': 'Dominque', 'Woodcourt': 'Latrelle', 'Jobling': 'Dakotah', 'George': 'Lindas', 'Flite': 'Jaydn', 'Vholes': 'Carey', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Rouncewell': 'Stephane', 'Dickens': 'Aldean', 'Jellyby': 'Carrol', 'Kenge': 'Hoa', 'Donny': 'Storm', 'Peepy': 'Oddie', 'Mercury': 'Matisse', 'Rouncefully': 'Clary', 'Murderess': 'Deovion', 'Liz': 'Anindita', 'Guster': 'Dru', 'Phil': 'Anre', 'Rouncewells': 'Austyn', 'Weevle': 'Kailan', 'Tom': 'Joseph-Peter', 'Morbury': 'Jourdan', 'Peffer': 'Ardell', 'Neckett': 'Lovelle', 'Hortense': 'Georgett', 'Swosser': 'Rennie', 'Dingo': 'Kemani', 'Prince': 'Demarqus', 'Turveydrops': 'Jorryn', 'young': 'Jonel', 'Gusher': 'Yee', 'Blinder': 'Aries', 'Judy': 'Latoshia', 'Woolwich': 'Jianni', 'Wisk': 'Mayan', 'Piper': 'Maryrose', 'Perkins': 'Marshell', 'Grubble': 'Jaidan', 'Summerson': 'Rielly', 'Inspector': 'Eh'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Maitland', 'Wold': 'Jaidan', 'Turveydrop': 'Jasiyah', 'Bucket': 'Cache'}}