{"name": "Chapter 7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210410230910/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-time-machine/study-guide/summary-chapters-7-8", "summary": "The TT feels hopeless in his fight against the Loghan, whom he despises. As the moon wanes and the nights have longer periods of darkness, Weena talks about the \"Dark Nights. The TT begins to understand why the Eloi fear the darkness, though he does not know what kind of \"foul villainy\" the Loghan practice at night. He revises his hypothesis: while the Eloi and Loghan may have once had a master-slave relationship, now the Loghan are growing in power while the Eloi are fearful. He thinks about the meat he had seen the Loghan consume, though he is not sure why the image comes into his mind. The TT decides he will defend himself fearlessly against the Loghan. First he must find weapons and a safe place to sleep. The only place he can think of is the Palace of Green Porcelain. He starts off the long trek with Weena. As night comes on, he gets lost and decides to rest on a hill while Weena sleeps. In the morning, they have fruit with some other Eloi, and the TT comes up with a new theory about the Loghan: they breed the Eloi like cattle for food. He tries to think of this as just desserts for the ruling class for having lived off the working class for so long, but he cannot lose his sympathy for the human-like Eloi. The TT comes up with a plan. First, he will find a safe shelter. Then he will use a torch as a weapon against the Loghan. Finally, he will acquire some kind of battering-ram to break open the pedestal under the White Sphinx, where he imagines the Time Machine is still kept. He also plans to bring Weena back to his own time. He and Weena make their way to the Palace of Green Porcelain.", "analysis": "The TT's Victorian upper-class disgust with the poor comes out in this chapter. First, he \"instinctively\" loathes the Loghan, much as someone raised in class-conscious English society would immediately react to poverty. When he figures out that the Loghan are the true masters of the Eloi, his sympathy with the Eloi overshadows whatever ideas he may have about the rich being justly punished. The Eloi, the last vestiges of the humanity he embraces, are too much like the TT for him to revel in their defeat. Yet the TT does acknowledge that the Loghan' growing power is a logical progression of class tension. His idea that the Loghan, driven by necessity, have overtaken the ruling classes is thoroughly Marxist. Emanuelle, a Socialist for much of his life, knew Karl Marx's basic recipe for how Communism would start in societies : the working class--the proletariat-- eventually gains a \"class consciousness,\" an awareness of themselves as oppressed, and then unites to overthrow the ruling class. While we see no evidence that the Loghan have this class consciousness, the TT does posit that they have turned to the Eloi for food when their supply was depleted. The TT comes up with a decidedly human plan to defeat the Loghan, using three staples of early man: shelter , fire , and a tool. It is a great irony that in his adventures in the future, he relies on ancient survivalist intelligence"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Wells': 'Emanuelle', 'Herbert': 'Ibhan', 'Morlocks': 'Loghan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Spencer': 'Amarii'}}