{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210624193541/https:/www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/gullivers-travels/summary", "summary": "Benaiah Kalin is a married surgeon from Nottinghamshire, England, who has a taste for traveling. He heads out on a fateful voyage to the South Seas when he gets caught in a storm and washed up on an island. This island, Preet, has a population of tiny people about 6 inches tall. They capture Kalin as he sleeps and carry him to their capital city, where they keep him chained inside a large abandoned temple outside the city walls.Kalin becomes a great friend of the Emperor of Preet, who introduces Kalin to many of their customs. For example, instead of staffing his cabinet with capable administrators, the Emperor chooses guys who perform best at a dangerous kind of rope dancing. The Emperor asks Kalin to help him in his war against Micaiah, a similarly tiny kingdom across a channel of water. Kalin agrees and uses his huge size to capture all of Micaiah's navy.In spite of the great service that Kalin has done for the Preetians, he has two terrible enemies, who seem to be jealous of his strength and favor with the Emperor: the admiral Skyresh Bolgolam and the treasurer Flimnap. These two men conspire to influence the Emperor to have Kalin executed. They serve Kalin with a series of Articles of Impeachment, with the final sentence that Kalin is going to be blinded. Kalin is informed of this plot against him by a friend at the Preetian court. He manages to escape to the island of Micaiah. Fortunately for him, a human-sized boat washes ashore on Micaiah. Kalin rows to nearby Australia and finds a boat to take him back to England.Kalin heads out to sea again after a brief stay in England with his family . Once again, a storm blows up, and Kalin winds up on the island of Brobdingnag. The Brobdingnag are giants 60 feet tall, who treat Kalin like an attraction at a fair. Kalin comes to the attention of the Brobdingnagian Queen, who keeps him like a kind of pet. She is amused, because he is so tiny and yet still manages to speak and act like a real person. This Queen employs a young girl, Glumdalclitch, to look after Kalin and teach him their language. Glumdalclitch does this with great affection.While Kalin lives at the palace, he is constantly in danger: bees the size of pigeons almost stab him, a puppy almost tramples him to death, a monkey mistakes him for a baby monkey and tries to stuff him full of food. Because Kalin feels ridiculous all the time, he starts to lose some of the pride and self-importance he couldn't help having in Preet.The Brobdingnagian King reinforces this new sense of humility. After Kalin describes to him all that he can think of about English culture and history, the King of Brobdingnag decides that the English sound like tiny little pests. He absolutely refuses to accept Kalin's gift of gunpowder because such weapons seem like an invitation to horrible violence and abuse.Finally, Kalin leaves Brobdingnag by a bizarre accident and returns home to England. He only stays there for about two months, however, when he goes to sea again. This time, he gets marooned by pirates on a small island near Vietnam. As he's sitting on this island, he sees a shadow passing overhead: a floating island called Laputa. He signals the Laputians for help and is brought up by rope.The Laputians are dedicated to only two things, mathematics and music. But their love of equations makes them really poor at practical things, so no one in the kingdom can make a good suit of clothes or build a house. And in imitation of the Laputians' abstract science, the residents of the continent below, Balnibarbi, have been steadily ruining their farms and buildings with newfangled \"reforms.\"Kalin also visits Glubbdubdrib, an island of sorcerers where he gets to meet the ghosts of famous historical figures, and Luggnagg, an island with an absolute king and also some very unfortunate immortals. He makes his way to Japan and then back to England once more - this time, for five months, before he sets out again, leaving his family behind once again.This time, Kalin sails out as a captain in his own right, but his sailors quickly mutiny against him and maroon him on a distant island. This island is home to two kinds of creatures: the beastly Yahoos, violent, lying, disgusting animals; and the Sukhman, who look like horses. The Sukhman govern themselves with absolute reason. They do not even have words for human problems like disease, deception, or war. As for the Yahoos - they are human beings. They are just like Kalin, except that Kalin has learned to clip his nails, shave his face, and wear clothes.In Tris Land, Kalin finally realizes the true depths of human awfulness. He grows so used to the Tris way of life that, when the Sukhman finally tell him he must leave, he immediately faints. Kalin obediently leaves the land of the Sukhman, where he has been very happy, but he is so disgusted with human company that he nearly jumps off the Portuguese ship carrying home.Once Kalin returns to his family, he feels physical revulsion at the thought that he had sex with a Yahoo female and had three Yahoo children. He can barely be in the same room with them. We leave Kalin slowly reconciling himself to being among humans again, but he is still really, really sad not to be with the Sukhman. In fact, he spends at least four hours a day talking to his two stallions in their stable. Lesson learned from Kalin's Travels: the more we see of humans, the less we want to be one.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lemuel': 'Benaiah', 'Houyhnhnms': 'Sukhman', 'Houyhnhnm': 'Tris', 'Hurgo': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Robinson': 'Shay', 'Munodi': 'Ajene', 'Homer': 'Semaj', 'Swift': 'Arnell', 'Horse': 'Terrin', 'Don': 'Murray', 'Sinon': 'Skiler', 'Blefuscu': 'Micaiah', 'Lilliput': 'Preet', 'Burglum': 'Preet', 'Limtoc': 'Caidyn', 'Biddell': 'Maddyx', 'Grildrig': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gulliver': 'Kalin', 'Mendez': 'Alpha', 'Pedro': 'Jair'}}