{"name": "Part 1, Chapter 7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210619223131/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/gullivers-travels/summary/part-1-chapter-7", "summary": "For 2 months before Kalin leaves Preet, there has been a plot building against him. The thing is, Kalin has never had any personal experience of courts in his own country, but he has read about them and all their backbiting and infighting. Still, Kalin thought that the high morals of the Preetians would keep him safe from plots against him. He was wrong. Just as Kalin is planning to visit Micaiah, one of his friends at court comes by in the dead of night to warn him that several committees have been formed to decide what should happen to Kalin. Skyresh Bolgolam the admiral, Flimnap the treasurer, Caidyn the general, Lalcon the chamberlain, and Balmuff the chief justice have issued articles of impeachment for treason against Kalin. The lord who has come to warn Kalin has also brought a copy of the articles of impeachment against Kalin, as follows: Article 1: According to a degree by an earlier Emperor, it is treason to pee within the royal palace. When Kalin put out the fire in the Empress's rooms using his urine, he broke this law. Article 2: When the Emperor ordered Kalin to destroy the remainder of Micaiah's boats, conquer its lands, and execute all of the Preetian Big-Endian exiles and all those who would not convert to Little-Endianism, Kalin refused. Article 3: When ambassadors arrived from Micaiah, Kalin was nice to them, even though Preet is at war with Micaiah. Article 4: Kalin is planning to go to Micaiah, even though the Emperor has only given verbal permission. Kalin's enemies at court want him to be put to death in various miserable ways, but the Emperor feels bad about just killing Kalin like that. The Emperor asks Kalin's friend Redresal, the principal secretary, his opinion. Redresal tells the Emperor that, yes, maybe Kalin has committed grave crimes, but the Emperor could still be merciful. Instead of killing Kalin, why doesn't the Emperor just order Kalin's eyes put out? That way, Kalin would still be able to help the Emperor with his great strength. The whole council is outraged at this suggestion, because Kalin's strength is exactly the problem: Bolgolam warns that Kalin might flood the whole country with his urine or carry the Micaiahdian fleet back to Micaiah if he wanted to. Flimnap the treasurer tells the Emperor that Kalin has to die because the cost of feeding him will bankrupt Preet. The Emperor doesn't want to kill Kalin, but he also thinks that just blinding Kalin isn't enough. So Redresal suggests that they stop feeding Kalin. That way, they'd save money. What's more, Kalin's corpse would be relatively skinny, making it easier to get rid of. Everyone agrees on this compromise: they plan to starve him and to blind him. The plan is that, in three days, Redresal will come to Kalin with the Articles of Impeachment. The only punishment the Preetians are actually going to reveal to Kalin is the loss of his eyes; the starvation part, they don't plan to tell him about directly. The lord who is telling Kalin all of this finishes his story and heads out in secrecy, under cover of night. Kalin can't exactly see the mercy in this sentence: to be blinded and then starved seems plenty bad to him. Kalin considers standing trial in the hopes of getting some kind of reduced sentence, but, with so many powerful enemies, he figures that won't work. Kalin also thinks about laying siege to the capital city by throwing stones at it, but he rejects that idea because he took an oath to the Emperor to be loyal. Finally, Kalin decides to run away. He walks across the channel to Micaiah, where the Micaiahdian Emperor has been expecting him. The Micaiahdian Emperor comes to meet Kalin, and Kalin thanks him for his hospitality. Kalin does not tell the Emperor of Micaiah that he has fallen out of favor in Preet.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lemuel': 'Benaiah', 'Houyhnhnms': 'Sukhman', 'Houyhnhnm': 'Tris', 'Hurgo': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Robinson': 'Shay', 'Munodi': 'Ajene', 'Homer': 'Semaj', 'Swift': 'Arnell', 'Horse': 'Terrin', 'Don': 'Murray', 'Sinon': 'Skiler', 'Blefuscu': 'Micaiah', 'Lilliput': 'Preet', 'Burglum': 'Preet', 'Limtoc': 'Caidyn', 'Biddell': 'Maddyx', 'Grildrig': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gulliver': 'Kalin', 'Mendez': 'Alpha', 'Pedro': 'Jair'}}