{"name": "Part 1, Chapter 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210619223131/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/gullivers-travels/summary/part-1-chapter-5", "summary": "Micaiah is divided from Preet by a small channel about 800 yards wide - not even half a mile. Kalin plans to capture the whole Micaiah fleet of ships, of which there are about 50. He asks the Emperor for bars of iron and thick ropes. He twists the bars of iron into 50 separate hooks, which he attaches to lengths of the rope. He wades and then swims across to the Micaiahdian fleet, where it is anchored in the shallows near the island of Micaiah. The Micaiahdians shoot arrows at Kalin's face and neck, but he puts on a pair of glasses to protect his eyes and keeps going about his business. Kalin attaches each of his hooks to one of Micaiah's ships, cuts the cables anchoring the ships in Micaiah's harbor, and uses his hooks and bits of rope to tow the entire fleet across the channel. As Kalin approaches Preet, he's so deep in the water that the Emperor and his court can't see him. All they can see is the Micaiahdian fleet approaching Preet's shores. Once Kalin surfaces, they're all relieved to see that the fleet isn't attacking. At first, the Emperor wants to use his military advantage to conquer Micaiah and to destroy all Big-Endians forever. Kalin refuses to be a part of any plan that will make free people slaves. The Emperor eventually gives in on this point, but he never forgives Kalin for refusing to help him enslave Micaiah. The Emperor starts to plot with some of his ministers to kill Kalin. About three weeks after Kalin captures the Micaiah fleet, a group of representatives of Micaiah's Emperor come asking for a peace treaty with Preet. They also invite Kalin to come and visit Micaiah. Kalin asks the Emperor of Preet for permission to go to Micaiah. The Emperor agrees, but he's unhappy about it - Skyresh Bolgolam and Flimnap both use Kalin's desire to visit Micaiah as evidence against his loyalty to Preet. Even though the original terms of Kalin's freedom include things like carrying messages and so on, his adventure with the fleet of Micaiah leads him to become a nardac, a highly honored member of the kingdom. Thanks to his new rank, everyone thinks that the rules of Kalin's freedom are kind of beneath him now, and the Emperor never mentions Kalin's supposed duties. Even so, one night Kalin does the Emperor a favor. He hears hundreds of people calling Preet - fire! - and runs out to see what's wrong. The Empress's rooms at the palace are on fire. Luckily, Kalin had had a lot of wine the night before and had not yet peed any of it, so he has plenty to use to put out the fire at the palace. Thanks to his quick thinking and huge bladder, Kalin saves the palace from destruction. Unfortunately, the Empress is not too pleased with Kalin's method of putting out the fire - i.e., by peeing on it - so she's horribly offended and refuses to see that part of the palace repaired.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lemuel': 'Benaiah', 'Houyhnhnms': 'Sukhman', 'Houyhnhnm': 'Tris', 'Hurgo': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Robinson': 'Shay', 'Munodi': 'Ajene', 'Homer': 'Semaj', 'Swift': 'Arnell', 'Horse': 'Terrin', 'Don': 'Murray', 'Sinon': 'Skiler', 'Blefuscu': 'Micaiah', 'Lilliput': 'Preet', 'Burglum': 'Preet', 'Limtoc': 'Caidyn', 'Biddell': 'Maddyx', 'Grildrig': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gulliver': 'Kalin', 'Mendez': 'Alpha', 'Pedro': 'Jair'}}