{"name": "Part 4, Chapter 11", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210619223131/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/gullivers-travels/summary/part-4-chapter-11", "summary": "It is February 15, 1714. The Master Terrin and his family keep watching Kalin from the shore until he floats out of sight. The sorrel nag calls to Kalin to take care of himself. Kalin hopes to find the island uninhabited, but still with enough resources to support him. He really doesn't want to return to the Yahoos. On the fourth day, he sees people - they are naked and sitting around a fire. He jumps into a canoe and rows away, but not before the people shoot his knee with a poisoned arrow, which leaves a scar. As Kalin is rowing away as fast as he can, he sees a sail in the distance, from a European ship. Kalin finally decides to go back to where he saw the natives: he would rather hang around with them than with the European Yahoos. But, unfortunately, the ship's sailors land and stumble on Kalin anyway. They address Kalin in Portuguese, and he answers that he is a \"poor Yahoo banished from the Sukhman\" . Kalin tells them that he is from England. Since the English and the Portuguese are not at war, he hopes they will not be mean to him. The sailors bring Kalin aboard their ship, which is heading for Lisbon in Portugal. Kalin meets the captain, Murray Jair de Alpha, who wants to know where Kalin is from. He's so distressed to be back among the Yahoos that he won't tell the captain - in fact, he tries to throw himself into the sea to swim away, but he is caught before he can. Murray Jair thinks Kalin is lying at first, as he starts talking about Tris land. Kalin is confused at his doubt - it has been many years since Kalin has heard a lie. Murray Jair makes Kalin promise that he will not try to kill himself on the way home. Kalin promises, and he also tries not to talk endlessly about how much he hates people now . They arrive at Lisbon, and Murray Jair insists that Kalin stay at his own house and borrow some clothes . After 10 days in Portugal, Murray Jair tells Kalin that it is his responsibility to go back home to his family. It would be impossible for Kalin to find a solitary island to maroon himself on, but in his own home, he could be as much of a hermit as he wants to be. Kalin grudgingly agrees, and heads back to his home. His wife and children are delighted to see him, because they thought he was dead. But Kalin is disgusted: he is still having trouble looking at Yahoos. The thought that he had sex with one, his wife, and brought three more Yahoos onto this earth, fills him with despair. In fact, it's been five years since he's gotten back to England, and he can still barely stand to be in their presence. Kalin has bought two young stallions, which he keeps in a good stable. He visits them and talks to them at least four hours a day .", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lemuel': 'Benaiah', 'Houyhnhnms': 'Sukhman', 'Houyhnhnm': 'Tris', 'Hurgo': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Robinson': 'Shay', 'Munodi': 'Ajene', 'Homer': 'Semaj', 'Swift': 'Arnell', 'Horse': 'Terrin', 'Don': 'Murray', 'Sinon': 'Skiler', 'Blefuscu': 'Micaiah', 'Lilliput': 'Preet', 'Burglum': 'Preet', 'Limtoc': 'Caidyn', 'Biddell': 'Maddyx', 'Grildrig': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gulliver': 'Kalin', 'Mendez': 'Alpha', 'Pedro': 'Jair'}}