{"name": "Part 2, Chapter 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210619223131/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/gullivers-travels/summary/part-2-chapter-3", "summary": "All of this performing is having a terrible effect on Kalin's health, and his master can see that he's getting sick. Kalin's master resolves to make as much money as he can off Kalin before Kalin dies. One day, the Queen of Brobdingnag arrives at his apartment and offers to buy Kalin for a huge sum of gold. Kalin agrees with the Queen's wishes as long as he can ask one tiny favor: he wants the Queen to employ Glumdalclitch as Kalin's nurse. The Queen agrees to his master's price and Kalin's request, and his master leaves Kalin to the Queen. The Queen notices how cold Kalin's farewell to his master is, and asks for an explanation. Kalin tells her that his former master exploited him, and suggests that, under Her Majesty's august protection, he might still be able to recover his former strength after all of this bad treatment. The Queen brings Kalin to the King of Brobdingnag and asks Kalin to explain again how his former master treated him. The King of Brobdingnag thinks that Kalin is a mechanical toy, and that he is parroting a story to the royal couple that is not true. He orders three scholars to come by his court and examine Kalin to see what they can make of him. The scholars decide that Kalin is a lusus naturae - a freak of nature. Kalin interrupts to tell them that he comes from a country with millions of people like him and of his size. The scholars dismiss him, but the Brobdingagian King slowly starts to think that Kalin is telling the truth. The King tells the Queen to keep watching over Kalin, which she does with great pleasure - she really likes him. The Queen outfits Kalin with his own tiny pieces of furniture and itsy-bitsy dishes and silverware, so that he can sleep and eat comfortably. Kalin comes to dine with the royal family every Wednesday, where he gives descriptions of European manners, customs, religion, and philosophy to the Brobdingnagian King. The Brobdingnagian King laughs as he asks Kalin if he is a Whig or a Tory? . Kalin gets all offended because the Brobdingnagian King uses Kalin's account of English customs as proof of human vanity: we all think our own politics and religion are so important, but from a wider perspective, they really aren't. But with time, Kalin starts to see himself more and more from the Brobdingnagian perspective: tiny and funny-looking. What does still really tick Kalin off is that there is a small person in the Queen's service who totally rags on Kalin because he has finally found someone smaller than he is. This person plays a number of practical jokes on Kalin. The Queen is surprised at Kalin's fearfulness, and asks if all the people of his home country are such cowards? Kalin really can't help his fears: even the Brobdingnagian insects are as large as fat birds compared to him.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lemuel': 'Benaiah', 'Houyhnhnms': 'Sukhman', 'Houyhnhnm': 'Tris', 'Hurgo': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Robinson': 'Shay', 'Munodi': 'Ajene', 'Homer': 'Semaj', 'Swift': 'Arnell', 'Horse': 'Terrin', 'Don': 'Murray', 'Sinon': 'Skiler', 'Blefuscu': 'Micaiah', 'Lilliput': 'Preet', 'Burglum': 'Preet', 'Limtoc': 'Caidyn', 'Biddell': 'Maddyx', 'Grildrig': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gulliver': 'Kalin', 'Mendez': 'Alpha', 'Pedro': 'Jair'}}