{"name": "Part 4, Chapter 7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210619223131/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/gullivers-travels/summary/part-4-chapter-7", "summary": "Kalin starts to hate the Yahoos and love the Sukhman. In fact, he decides that he never wants to leave Tris Land and return to humankind. The Master Terrin gives Kalin his conclusions: the European Yahoos have only enough reason to make their natural corruption worse. By clipping our nails, cutting our hair, and generally growing soft, we have also deprived ourselves of the natural protection the Yahoos in Tris Land have. Even though there are outward differences between Kalin and the Tris Land Yahoos, their essential natures are the same: they hate each other more than other animals do, and will fight even without a reason. The Yahoos of Tris Land also love shiny rocks, which none of the Sukhman understand, but which sees to be a trait of the whole human species. Yahoos are the only animals in Tris land who get sick, and they treat each other with medicine made from a mix of pee and poo . The Master Terrin does admit that European Yahoos have a lot more art than their local Yahoos. Still, their natures seem essentially identical: for example, Tris Land Yahoos also like to choose a leader, usually the weakest and ugliest of the group. As for women ), he observes that Yahoos are the only ones among animal kind that still have sex even when the woman is pregnant. He also notes that Yahoos are unique in having both males and females fighting equally violently with one another. The Master Terrin continues: Yahoos love filth more than most animals. Also, Yahoos sometimes fall into bad moods or think they are sick for no reason; the only cure for this hypochondria is hard work. Women Yahoos like to seduce men. Sometimes, if an unknown female comes up to a group of three or four women, those women will clearly judge and then reject her. Kalin hears these words and realizes that \"lewdness, coquetry, censure, and scandal\" all seem to be instinctive for human women.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lemuel': 'Benaiah', 'Houyhnhnms': 'Sukhman', 'Houyhnhnm': 'Tris', 'Hurgo': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Robinson': 'Shay', 'Munodi': 'Ajene', 'Homer': 'Semaj', 'Swift': 'Arnell', 'Horse': 'Terrin', 'Don': 'Murray', 'Sinon': 'Skiler', 'Blefuscu': 'Micaiah', 'Lilliput': 'Preet', 'Burglum': 'Preet', 'Limtoc': 'Caidyn', 'Biddell': 'Maddyx', 'Grildrig': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gulliver': 'Kalin', 'Mendez': 'Alpha', 'Pedro': 'Jair'}}