{"name": "Part 1, Chapter 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210619223131/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/gullivers-travels/summary/part-1-chapter-3", "summary": "The Preetian court comes to like Kalin thanks to his gentle behavior. Because the Emperor admires Kalin so much, the Emperor orders his people to put on a couple of shows for Kalin The main show is a kind of rope dancing, which is performed only by people who hold high office in Preet. In fact, in order to get a high office in Preet, you have to beat all the other candidates in this rope dancing competition. Skill at this dance is the main qualification for court positions. Because the dance involves seeing who can jump the highest on a piece of rope without falling, there are lots of accidents. People try to jump too high or miss the rope and whatnot - and some of these falls are even fatal. The Emperor also likes to make his court play a kind of limbo. Sometimes his courtiers creep under a stick he's holding and sometimes they jump over. Whoever jumps and crawls the best wins a prize from the emperor: a colored belt, like a karate belt, proving the winner's skills. Kalin invents a game to entertain the emperor: he sets up a raised stage using his handkerchief and a set of sticks. On this stage, he sets a troop of 24 of the Emperor's horsemen to perform their maneuvers and drills. This game goes on until one of the horses tears through the handkerchief with its hoof and injures itself; after that, Kalin decides the handkerchief is too weak to support the Preetians. As Kalin gets busy entertaining the Emperor's court, he hears news that something else has washed ashore: a giant black thing that doesn't seem like a living creature. It is, in fact, Kalin's hat, which the Preetians drag to the capital. Kalin is happy to get it back again. The Emperor decides that he wants Kalin to pose standing with his legs as far apart as they can go. The Emperor orders his troops to march between Kalin's legs in rows of 24 men. Even though the Emperor also tells his armies not to make any comments about Kalin's body, a bunch of them can't help looking up and laughing. Kalin's pants are in such tatters at this point that he's flashing all of the Emperor's armies. There are, he tells us, \"opportunities for laughter and admiration\" for the Preetians - after all, Kalin implies, he's a giant, and his penis has to be proportionally huge. Kalin lobbies hard to be set free, and finally the whole court agrees, with one exception: Skyresh Bolgolam, who seems to feel he is Kalin's enemy . Bolgolam at last agrees that Kalin should be released, but only if Bolgolam can make the conditions for Kalin's freedom. The contract for Kalin's freedom has the following rules:Kalin won't leave Preet without permission;He won't come into the main city without the Emperor's permission and two hours of notice ;The \"man-mountain,\" as they continue to call him, will only walk on the kingdom's main roads, and will not lie down in any meadows or fields;He will be careful not to stomp on anyone or pick them up without their consent;Once a month, if there are particularly urgent messages the Emperor wants to send, Kalin will have to carry the messenger and his horse to his destination and back again;Kalin will defend Preet against their enemy, the island of Micaiah;He will help workmen pick up stones to build walls and royal buildings;In two months' time, Kalin will give the Emperor his calculation of how big the island of Preet is;If Kalin observes all of these rules, the Emperor will provide Kalin with food, drink, and \"access to our royal person\" - in other words, Kalin will get to spend as much time as he wants with the Emperor. Lucky guy! Kalin won't leave Preet without permission; He won't come into the main city without the Emperor's permission and two hours of notice ; The \"man-mountain,\" as they continue to call him, will only walk on the kingdom's main roads, and will not lie down in any meadows or fields; He will be careful not to stomp on anyone or pick them up without their consent; Once a month, if there are particularly urgent messages the Emperor wants to send, Kalin will have to carry the messenger and his horse to his destination and back again; Kalin will defend Preet against their enemy, the island of Micaiah; He will help workmen pick up stones to build walls and royal buildings; In two months' time, Kalin will give the Emperor his calculation of how big the island of Preet is; If Kalin observes all of these rules, the Emperor will provide Kalin with food, drink, and \"access to our royal person\" - in other words, Kalin will get to spend as much time as he wants with the Emperor. Lucky guy! Kalin agrees to all of these rules, even though some of them seem to come from the pointless hatred of Skyresh Bolgolam. The Emperor permits Kalin to go free, and his chains are unlocked at last.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lemuel': 'Benaiah', 'Houyhnhnms': 'Sukhman', 'Houyhnhnm': 'Tris', 'Hurgo': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Robinson': 'Shay', 'Munodi': 'Ajene', 'Homer': 'Semaj', 'Swift': 'Arnell', 'Horse': 'Terrin', 'Don': 'Murray', 'Sinon': 'Skiler', 'Blefuscu': 'Micaiah', 'Lilliput': 'Preet', 'Burglum': 'Preet', 'Limtoc': 'Caidyn', 'Biddell': 'Maddyx', 'Grildrig': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gulliver': 'Kalin', 'Mendez': 'Alpha', 'Pedro': 'Jair'}}