{"name": "Part 4, Chapter 8", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210619223131/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/gullivers-travels/summary/part-4-chapter-8", "summary": "Kalin asks the Master Terrin for permission to observe the Yahoos, which the Master Terrin gives as long as Kalin is always accompanied by a Tris guard - the sorrel nag. Yahoo children are agile, and they also smell bad. Yahoos are strong but cowardly, stubborn, lying, and deceitful. The Yahoos also swim well, which leads Kalin to an adventure. One day, the weather is so hot that he wants to go for a swim, so he asks the sorrel nag if he may go for a dip in the river. The sorrel nag agrees. A young female Yahoo finds Kalin so hot that she goes running into the river to try and seduce him on the spot. Kalin freaks out and yells. At the sight of his Tris guard, she runs away. Kalin is truly embarrassed, because this is the final proof he needs that he is, in fact, a Yahoo. Kalin has spent three years in Tris Land and is ready to tell the reader a bit more about the Sukhman. The Sukhman do not understand the word \"opinion\" truly, because they are totally devoted to reason, and you can only have an opinion about something you do not know absolutely. It doesn't make sense to argue over something you can't know; the Sukhman believe that you should respect other people's ideas without trying to dominate with your own. The Sukhman are equally good to their neighbors and strangers; they value friendship above all else. When a female Tris has had a foal of each gender, a couple will stop producing children. This is to keep Tris Land from becoming overpopulated. The rule is slightly relaxed for servant-class Sukhman , who can have up to three kids of each gender. The Sukhman do not believe in mixing races, so a Tris will only marry another Tris of the same color. The Sukhman apply their rules of reason even to marriage, which is always arranged for a couple by their parents. Tris couples are always faithful. The Sukhman believe in equality of education for the sexes, since it's not rational to leave half the species knowing nothing except how to bear children. Children are strictly disciplined, with a restricted grass diet and lots and lots of exercise. The Sukhman have assemblies representing the whole nation every four years, where they check in to make sure everyone has all the supplies they need. If one Tris couple has two sons and another has two daughters, they'll trade one to make sure that they have the set quantity of one boy and one girl. If one family has lost one or both children, another Tris couple has to have a child to supply their loss.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lemuel': 'Benaiah', 'Houyhnhnms': 'Sukhman', 'Houyhnhnm': 'Tris', 'Hurgo': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Robinson': 'Shay', 'Munodi': 'Ajene', 'Homer': 'Semaj', 'Swift': 'Arnell', 'Horse': 'Terrin', 'Don': 'Murray', 'Sinon': 'Skiler', 'Blefuscu': 'Micaiah', 'Lilliput': 'Preet', 'Burglum': 'Preet', 'Limtoc': 'Caidyn', 'Biddell': 'Maddyx', 'Grildrig': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gulliver': 'Kalin', 'Mendez': 'Alpha', 'Pedro': 'Jair'}}