{"name": "Part 4, Chapter 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210619223131/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/gullivers-travels/summary/part-4-chapter-2", "summary": "Kalin and the gray horse go about three miles, to a long, low building. Kalin sees several horses doing housework and thinks that the people who tamed these animals to such a degree must be the smartest people who ever were. Kalin starts to think he's hallucinating, because he can't figure out where the people are, and what kind of man needs to be served by horses. Finally, Kalin arrives at a building far from the main house, which has three of those gross, hairy animals from the previous chapter chained to the wall. They are eating roots and meat from animals that have died by accident - donkeys, dogs, and cows. The horse leader orders \"the sorrel nag\" to unchain one of the beasts and bring him to Kalin. When Kalin sees this beast close up, he realizes that what the horses have been calling Yahoos are actually men: their hands have uncut nails, and they are a bit hairier and more calloused than Kalin, but still, they are unmistakably human beings. What is clearly confusing the horses is that Kalin has the head of a Yahoo, but his body is pretty different: they don't understand that his clothes are not part of his skin. The horses see that Kalin truly loathes the Yahoos, and that he also can't eat the raw meat they eat. Kalin sees a cow passing and indicates that he will milk her, which is how he finally feeds himself. Around noon, an elderly horse appears in a carriage drawn by 4 Yahoos. He settles down with the gray horse to a lunch of hay, mashed oats, and milk. They all appear extremely well-mannered, modest, and decent. After lunch, the gray horse indicates that he's worried that Kalin has eaten so little. Finally, Kalin figures out a way to make a kind of bread out of oats, which he eats with milk. And even though it's not the most delicious food in the world, a steady diet of this stuff makes him really healthy. Kalin spends his first night lying in straw between the house and the Yahoo stable.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lemuel': 'Benaiah', 'Houyhnhnms': 'Sukhman', 'Houyhnhnm': 'Tris', 'Hurgo': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Robinson': 'Shay', 'Munodi': 'Ajene', 'Homer': 'Semaj', 'Swift': 'Arnell', 'Horse': 'Terrin', 'Don': 'Murray', 'Sinon': 'Skiler', 'Blefuscu': 'Micaiah', 'Lilliput': 'Preet', 'Burglum': 'Preet', 'Limtoc': 'Caidyn', 'Biddell': 'Maddyx', 'Grildrig': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gulliver': 'Kalin', 'Mendez': 'Alpha', 'Pedro': 'Jair'}}