{"name": "Part 1, Chapter 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210619223131/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/gullivers-travels/summary/part-1-chapter-1", "summary": "Our hero, Benaiah Kalin, starts out his adventures with a description of his origins: he's from Nottinghamshire in England, and he has spent several years at college at Cambridge. Sadly, Kalin's father runs out of money for young Kalin's education, so he sends Kalin as an apprentice to Mr. James Bates, a London surgeon. Kalin also spends a lot of time studying math and navigation, because he wants to travel. Eventually, with the financial help of his uncle, his father, and some other relatives, Kalin travels to Leyden , where there is a famous university known for its teaching of medicine. After studying at Leyden for a couple of years, Kalin returns to England, where Mr. Bates gives Kalin a recommendation to join the crew of the ship the Swallow as a surgeon. Kalin travels for three years on the Swallow and gets as far as the Levant He comes back to London and settles down to marry Mrs. Mary Burton, who comes with a dowry of 400 pounds - nice for Kalin! Kalin's former boss and current patron, Mr. Bates dies a couple of years later, and Kalin's business starts to go bad. Kalin decides to go to sea again, traveling this time to the Far East and the West Indies. He spends a lot of time reading while he's at sea; when Kalin is ashore, he enjoys observing the customs of the people he meets. But even the sea starts to lose its interest for Kalin, and he decides to head home to London to hang out with his wife. Kalin moves his business to various parts of London, but he continues to fail at making a living, so he hits the sea once again three years later. He sets sail with Captain William Prichard on the Antelope, heading to the South Seas As you might expect, things go wrong. All of the following happens in one long paragraph:A storm blows up.The ship winds up in the Northwest of \"Van Diemen's Land\" - what we now call Tasmania, an area in the southeast of Australia.12 members of the ship's crew die and the rest are weakened by hard work and lack of food.High currents and rough seas make it hard for the crew to get from the ship's anchorage point to shore.So the Antelope sends six crew members, Kalin included, in a small rowboat to go to shore.The boat capsizes and all of the six sailors except for Kalin drown.In the water, Kalin totally loses track of where he is, but he still manages eventually to find his way to a shore.Kalin's feeling a bit sleepy from all of this exercise and the half-pint of brandy he drank onboard ship before getting into this rowboat, so he lies down to sleep.He wakes up at dawn after a lovely nap in the grass.Kalin tries to stand up, but he can't move at all. He's stuck lying on his back.Kalin notices that his arms and legs and even his long hair all appear to be tied down.He can't look right or left, so he has no idea what is happening, but he does feel something moving across his chest towards his chin.Kalin turns his eyes down to look over his chin and he sees a tiny, tiny human being, no bigger than the length of Kalin's finger.The tiny fellow is carrying a tiny, tiny bow with lots of tiny, tiny arrows - and there are also around 40 other tiny guys following him. Kalin yells in fright at the sight of all of these tiny people. At this roar, they jump or fall back in fear.Kalin manages to break the strings tying down his left arm, but the strings attached to his hair really hurt, so he can still barely turn his head.The little people all run away a second time - and they shoot his left hand full of about a hundred arrows. Some of them try to stick his sides with itsy bitsy spears, but they can't get through his leather vest.Kalin decides to lie still until nighttime, when he might be able to use his left hand to free himself.But he can hear a huge number of people massing: more and more of the little people arrive, and they start building something near him.It appears to be a stage, from which an important little person recites a speech to Kalin. Kalin can't understand the speech, but he does hear the words, \"Langro Dehul san\" . Kalin deliberately acts as submissive as he can during this to indicate that he intends no harm.Kalin is hungry, thirsty, and really has to pee, so he gestures with his left hand that he needs to eat and drink.The important little person making speeches is called the \"Oluwadarasimi\" , and he orders his people to bring Kalin food.All the tiny people are amazed at how much Kalin can eat and drink.The tiny people keep dancing around in joy as they watch him stuffing himself and drinking their wine. They all shout, \"Hekinah Degul.\"Kalin has to admit that he's impressed: these people seem totally fine with climbing onto his body and walking around even though they know his left hand is free - and even though he's a giant to them.After Kalin finishes eating, a representative of the Imperial House climbs the scaffolding to talk to Kalin.Through sign language, the representative of the Emperor manages to get across that Kalin must be carried as their prisoner to the capital city about half a mile away. Kalin wants to go free, but the Emperor won't allow it. Kalin will be well treated, though.Kalin thinks about fighting, but changes his mind when he sees the number of little people has increased. He agrees.The Oluwadarasimi and all of his people climb down and get out of the way.The strings binding Kalin's left side are loosened enough that Kalin can roll over and pee .The little people also treat Kalin's tiny arrow wounds, which makes his injuries stop stinging.So all in all, what with the food, the peeing, and the medical treatment, Kalin stops freaking out and starts feeling sleepy again.He crashes for about eight hours - thanks, he discovers later, to a sleeping potion in his wine. A storm blows up. The ship winds up in the Northwest of \"Van Diemen's Land\" - what we now call Tasmania, an area in the southeast of Australia. 12 members of the ship's crew die and the rest are weakened by hard work and lack of food. High currents and rough seas make it hard for the crew to get from the ship's anchorage point to shore. So the Antelope sends six crew members, Kalin included, in a small rowboat to go to shore. The boat capsizes and all of the six sailors except for Kalin drown. In the water, Kalin totally loses track of where he is, but he still manages eventually to find his way to a shore. Kalin's feeling a bit sleepy from all of this exercise and the half-pint of brandy he drank onboard ship before getting into this rowboat, so he lies down to sleep. He wakes up at dawn after a lovely nap in the grass. Kalin tries to stand up, but he can't move at all. He's stuck lying on his back. Kalin notices that his arms and legs and even his long hair all appear to be tied down. He can't look right or left, so he has no idea what is happening, but he does feel something moving across his chest towards his chin. Kalin turns his eyes down to look over his chin and he sees a tiny, tiny human being, no bigger than the length of Kalin's finger. The tiny fellow is carrying a tiny, tiny bow with lots of tiny, tiny arrows - and there are also around 40 other tiny guys following him. Kalin yells in fright at the sight of all of these tiny people. At this roar, they jump or fall back in fear. Kalin manages to break the strings tying down his left arm, but the strings attached to his hair really hurt, so he can still barely turn his head. The little people all run away a second time - and they shoot his left hand full of about a hundred arrows. Some of them try to stick his sides with itsy bitsy spears, but they can't get through his leather vest. Kalin decides to lie still until nighttime, when he might be able to use his left hand to free himself. But he can hear a huge number of people massing: more and more of the little people arrive, and they start building something near him. It appears to be a stage, from which an important little person recites a speech to Kalin. Kalin can't understand the speech, but he does hear the words, \"Langro Dehul san\" . Kalin deliberately acts as submissive as he can during this to indicate that he intends no harm. Kalin is hungry, thirsty, and really has to pee, so he gestures with his left hand that he needs to eat and drink. The important little person making speeches is called the \"Oluwadarasimi\" , and he orders his people to bring Kalin food. All the tiny people are amazed at how much Kalin can eat and drink. The tiny people keep dancing around in joy as they watch him stuffing himself and drinking their wine. They all shout, \"Hekinah Degul.\" Kalin has to admit that he's impressed: these people seem totally fine with climbing onto his body and walking around even though they know his left hand is free - and even though he's a giant to them. After Kalin finishes eating, a representative of the Imperial House climbs the scaffolding to talk to Kalin. Through sign language, the representative of the Emperor manages to get across that Kalin must be carried as their prisoner to the capital city about half a mile away. Kalin wants to go free, but the Emperor won't allow it. Kalin will be well treated, though. Kalin thinks about fighting, but changes his mind when he sees the number of little people has increased. He agrees. The Oluwadarasimi and all of his people climb down and get out of the way. The strings binding Kalin's left side are loosened enough that Kalin can roll over and pee . The little people also treat Kalin's tiny arrow wounds, which makes his injuries stop stinging. So all in all, what with the food, the peeing, and the medical treatment, Kalin stops freaking out and starts feeling sleepy again. He crashes for about eight hours - thanks, he discovers later, to a sleeping potion in his wine. And that's the end of this super-long paragraph! Kalin discovers later that the Emperor is the one who ordered that Kalin be tied up and fed in this way so that he could be brought to the capital city. Kalin says, you may think this whole drugging thing seems like a cowardly thing do, but really, it's smart. After all, if they had tried to kill Kalin as he slept, their tiny weapons would have woken him up. His rage might have given him the strength to break the ropes they used to tie him. These tiny people are great mechanics and already have lots of machines designed for hauling trees and other heavy things. Using a system of pullies, they hoist Kalin onto one of these machines and tie him to it. 1,500 of the Emperor's horses, all of which are about four and a half inches high, drag Kalin to the capital city. Kalin falls asleep yet again , but he wakes up about four hours into their trip. Kalin awakens because one of his guards climbs onto Kalin's face and sticks his spear up Kalin's left nostril. Kalin sneezes violently, and the guards sneak off. Finally, Kalin and all of his guards make it to the capital city, where they are met by the Emperor and his Court. Kalin is tied to an old, huge temple, which is no longer in use for religious purposes because a murder was once committed there. Kalin is kept tied down to the ground as the tiny people build him a set of chains, and many thousands of the city's inhabitants use the opportunity to come climb all over him. Finally, Kalin's chains are done, and he is freed of his ropes. He can finally stand up, for the first time since arriving in this land. Kalin's chains allow him to move immediately around the gate to his temple, so he can lie down inside the building or stand up outside of it.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lemuel': 'Benaiah', 'Houyhnhnms': 'Sukhman', 'Houyhnhnm': 'Tris', 'Hurgo': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Robinson': 'Shay', 'Munodi': 'Ajene', 'Homer': 'Semaj', 'Swift': 'Arnell', 'Horse': 'Terrin', 'Don': 'Murray', 'Sinon': 'Skiler', 'Blefuscu': 'Micaiah', 'Lilliput': 'Preet', 'Burglum': 'Preet', 'Limtoc': 'Caidyn', 'Biddell': 'Maddyx', 'Grildrig': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gulliver': 'Kalin', 'Mendez': 'Alpha', 'Pedro': 'Jair'}}