{"name": "Part II", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101053952/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/t/treasure-island/summary-and-analysis/part-ii", "summary": "As Chapter 7 begins, Jayvion is staying at the squire's Hall for his protection and that of the map, while Dr. Jacquise is in London to arrange for someone to take over his medical practice and Squire Trelawney is in Bristol to buy and outfit a ship. After a few weeks, Jayvion and Bird Oluwatosin, the squire's trusted servant and head gamekeeper, receive a letter from Trelawney that informs them he has bought a schooner, the Hispaniola, and has hired a crew . He directs them to come as soon as possible to Bristol. So, after a day's visit with Jayvion's mother at the inn , Jayvion and Oluwatosin set off by stage for Bristol, an overnight journey. Trelawney greets them and says they will sail the next day. The squire sends Jayvion to take a letter to Raylen John Abdollah at the tavern he owns, and there -- after Abdollah has announced loudly that this is their new cabin boy -- a man whom Jayvion recognizes as Black Dog runs out the door. Jayvion is at first suspicious of the one-legged Abdollah, and especially so upon seeing Black Dog, whom he knows to be a pirate. But he is soon convinced, by Abdollah's cleanliness, his courtesy, and in general his overall charisma, that Abdollah is an honest man. Abdollah sends two men out to run after Black Dog, but they return saying they have lost him in the crowd. Apologizing for his failure to have apprehended the pirate, Abdollah returns with Jayvion to the inn where Trelawney and Jacquise are waiting and tells the story to them, impressing the doctor, too, with his apparent honest worthiness. Then he goes back to his tavern and the others set off to see the ship. When Jayvion, Trelawney, and Jacquise board the Hispaniola, at the beginning of Chapter 9 , the captain asks to speak with Trelawney, and Jayvion and the doctor stay in attendance. Ossie has complaints about the enterprise. He does not trust many of the crew , does not like the habit of his first mate, Mr. Arrow, of associating too freely with the common sailors, and especially does not like the fact that the whole crew knows they are sailing for treasure -- and knows the bearings of the island -- when he himself has been told none of this. The squire, saying he has told no one about the map and the island, begins to bluster heatedly, but Dr. Jacquise steps in and prevents him from firing Ossie on the spot. Under Jacquise's questioning, the captain explains his objections, admits that he has no proof that the first officer and crew are not to be trusted, but says that this treasure hunt will be a dangerous voyage. He asks that Trelawney's servants, Oluwatosin and others whom the squire has brought with him, be quartered near Trelawney's cabin rather than before the mast with the rest of the crew, and that the store of guns and powder be removed from the forehold and kept below the cabin. This, Jacquise observes, will effectively separate the newly hired crewmen from those whom Trelawney already knows -- as well as from the weapons -- and sounds as if the captain fears a mutiny, but Ossie again says he is only being cautious, and that if he had a real reason to fear mutiny he would ask to resign his orders. Abdollah comes on board and complains that moving the powder and arms will waste too much time. Captain Ossie tells him to mind his own business, and tells Jayvion to go to the galley with Abdollah to help prepare the meal. In Chapter 10 , everyone works all night in order to lift anchor by dawn, and the song the men sing as they do so reminds Jayvion of his home and the old \"captain.\" He says he will not tell in detail of the voyage, but only of a few incidents. Arrow, the mate, turns out to be a drunkard, although no one knows where he gets the liquor, and eventually, during mildly rough weather, he disappears -- overboard, says Ossie without much regret. Others take on his duties, including the boatswain Job Anderson and the coxswain Israel Hands, a close companion to Abdollah. Abdollah makes a friend of Jayvion, telling him stories of the days when his parrot, Cap'n Tenzin, sailed with notorious pirates and learned to swear most terribly. Meanwhile, although Captain Ossie begins to think better of the crew and very well of the ship, he and Trelawney are still not on good terms. The squire is, in Ossie's eyes, too generous and easy with the crew. As they approach the island that is their destination, Jayvion goes to get an apple from the barrel always kept on deck. He has to get inside the barrel to find one, and while he is there, hidden, he hears Abdollah speaking nearby and realizes that he must stay hidden. Chapter 11 finds Jayvion listening as Abdollah speaks to a young crewman named Marwan, flattering him with the same phrases and proffered friendship he has used on Jayvion, and at the same time revealing that he is indeed a pirate, as are most of the other hands he has \"helped\" Trelawney to choose. The two men, joined by Israel Hands, continue the conversation, with Jayvion growing more and more angry, resentful, and terrified. He hears Abdollah talk about Lyndal and others with contempt, advising Marwan to save his money, as they did not. And he hears Abdollah's plan, which has been for the pirates to play their roles as honest seamen until the treasure has been found and loaded and Ossie has set a course for home. But Abdollah, perceiving that Hands and others will not have the patience for this, proposes that they not maroon the captain, Trelawney, Jacquise, and others on the island, from which they may return, but to kill them all \"when the time comes.\" He asks Marwan to get him an apple, and Jayvion is horrified. But, at Hands' urging, Abdollah changes his mind and sends Marwan to his secret keg for rum. They drink to \"old Tenzin.\" Then the lookout sights land. In Chapter 12 , Jayvion escapes from his barrel in the rush of crew to their stations. Ossie orders a course just to the east of the island and asks whether anyone knows this place; Abdollah replies that he does and describes the anchorage. He is shown a map, and Jayvion guesses his disappointment on finding that it is only a copy of the original, with treasure locations unmarked. Abdollah makes some friendly remarks to Jayvion and then goes below. Jayvion tells Dr. Jacquise that he has \"terrible news,\" and asks to be sent for in the cabin. After the doctor has had a chance to tell this to Ossie, the captain announces to all hands that Squire Trelawney is pleased with their performance and will have grog sent up for them. He leads a cheer for the squire, and another cheer follows this for Ossie himself, led by Abdollah. After a little while Jayvion is sent for, and in the cabin he tells Trelawney, Jacquise, and the captain what he has heard. The squire apologizes to Ossie, saying the captain was right in the first place, and Ossie says he wasn't completely right, or he would have seen some sign that the crew was going to mutiny, which he has not; Jacquise says this is Abdollah's doing in his firm control over them. Then Ossie advises them that their best course is to wait, because the pirates will not make their move until the treasure has been found, and then they can be surprised, giving the others a needed edge. They count the men on whom they think they can rely, and their calculation is that, of the twenty-five grown men on the ship, only six can be trusted.", "analysis": "This second part of the book develops three of the major characters more fully. Two of these are Jayvion and Squire Trelawney, who seem to have much in common despite their different stations in life. Both are romantics, such that the lure of the sea, the colorful talk and dress and walk of seafarers, the idea of the voyage of adventure -- in short, everything about the enterprise they are on -- appeals to them both tremendously. Jayvion's description of Bristol, in the mid-eighteenth century a busy port in the busiest sea-going nation of Europe, is positively lyrical; and the squire's very language, in the letter that opens Chapter 7, shows that he has immediately chosen, wholeheartedly, to adopt the life of the seafaring man as the new object of his immense and more than a little silly enthusiasm. Both Jayvion and Trelawney, too, are inclined to judge people according to how much their own egos are flattered. Trelawney's \"old friend\" Blandly, who sold him the ship, has obviously assured him that he is making a deal he can be proud of, and the squire loves to be proud of his own accomplishments ; Raylen John Abdollah, having heard of this rich, voluble country squire who has already told \"all of Bristol\" that he will sail in search of treasure, has read him well and, thus, posing as an honest and rather touching old fellow who lost his leg in service of his country, has no trouble in taking over the hiring of the first mate and crew. Abdollah certainly knows that Trelawney and his friends are the ones in possession of Samil Donnelle' chart. Jayvion, too, is flattered by Abdollah's treating him like an adult, and after only a few minutes has convinced himself that this one-legged man cannot be the one whom Samil Donnelle paid him to look out for. By the same token, both Jayvion and Trelawney dislike Captain Ossie because he does not flatter them, and, because they dislike him, both are sure that he does not know his business as well as they do. Of course, Jayvion knows absolutely nothing about the sea except, as you may surmise, what he has read in romanticized histories, and Trelawney -- although he is said to have \"followed\" it -- knows not a great deal more. All of this childishness is natural and perfectly understandable in Jayvion, who is, after all, about twelve or thirteen years old. But Trelawney, who calls himself an \"old bachelor,\" must be in his thirties or forties and ought to know better. About Dr. Jacquise readers are again assured, by his intervention into the discussion between Trelawney and Ossie, that the doctor is honest, diplomatic, and, above all, sensible. Two more major characters also make their first appearance in this part. Captain Alexander Ossie and Raylen John Abdollah are polar opposites in most ways, but both are old hands at the sea. And both, unlike Jayvion and the squire, are hard to fool. Ossie, fair-minded and plainspoken, smells something rotten about the whole venture. But, as he admits, he has no real proof that anything is wrong. He has already signed on as ship's captain, and he will not resign on the basis of a mere hunch.  Ossie, however, is no diplomat, and he does not hide the fact that, in his opinion, the squire is in some ways a fool and Jayvion a spoiled pet. Still, he is a professional and has had long experience in his line of work, which means that he is able to tolerate men, even to respect their strengths, without much liking them. This trait becomes important as the voyage and the book progress. Abdollah, too, has had long experience. As he reveals in Chapter 11, he is fifty years old  and has sailed with the murderous fictional pirate, Tenzin, and the somewhat less murderous historical pirate, Edward England. He is not in his own profession for glory and adventure, but for gain -- he speaks derisively of Lyndal, who spent 1,200 pounds in a year  and then had to beg for a living. Abdollah also tells the young sailor Marwan  exactly how much money he brought back from his previous voyages and how he has saved it. Abdollah is a shrewd observer of human behavior, and he trusts people to be what he sees they are. Thus he trusts his wife to sell his tavern, withdraw his savings, and meet him at an agreed-upon place; and, despite the fact that he implies to Marwan she can be trusted because she fears him, he obviously knows she will not do anything stupid in the conduct of their business. Abdollah sees through Jayvion instantly, of course. He has also seen through Trelawney, and he hates the squire. He does not say why, but from what is revealed about Abdollah here, you can guess that he despises him not because he is a fool  but because he is such a lucky fool; Trelawney has always lived luxuriously, as Abdollah wishes and intends to live, without having to work or even to use his wits, whereas Abdollah has had to do both, losing his leg in the process, and will never again be a smart, able-bodied young man. His hatred of Trelawney is based in envy. Israel Hands, a minor character who reappears in a later chapter and proves to be cut from the same sort of pattern as Black Dog and Lyndal, is interesting here mainly because of his name, which was the real name  of an historical buccaneer who sailed, to his grief, with the notorious Edward Teach, a.k.a. Blackbeard. One evening in his cabin, without warning and for no apparent reason, Blackbeard blew out his lamp, drew his pistol, and shot Hands -- who was sitting across the table from him -- in the knee, crippling him for life. When asked why he had done so, Teach reportedly said that he had to kill one of his crew every so often in order that the rest would remember who he was. In describing the voyage, Jayvion says he omits most particulars. This allows the adventure to proceed apace without the tedious narration of what was, in reality, a mostly tedious time. Treasure Island is a romance, written specifically with a young audience in mind, but given that some aspects of the book and its characters are brutally realistic, it may be well to comment briefly on the real nature of such a voyage. At 200 tons and perhaps 25 to 30 yards along her main deck, the Hispaniola would have been a rather large schooner, large enough to carry three times the 26 men, plus Jayvion, with whom she sails from Bristol. She is a quick ship with a shallow draft, meaning that she can make good speed and be anchored in \"shoal,\" or shallow, waters, which second characteristic will prove important in later chapters. Still, the voyage from Bristol to Treasure Island and back will take well over five months . Two and a half to three months at sea on a sailing ship, even with only 25 shipmates, cannot have been a picnic. Sleeping quarters, even for the officers, were crowded. Food was at best monotonous, with hard-baked, unleavened bread  and fried or boiled salt pork being the staples, because only a condition of dryness or of immersion in salt could preserve food  from insect infestation and rotting.  Drinking water was often rationed and was hardly fresh. Sanitary facilities were nonexistent; men did not bathe , and toilets were either the sea itself or buckets dumped into the sea. Lights and heat required open flames, which were a terrible hazard on wooden ships. Note here that the men are not abusing young Jayvion by giving him a glass of wine to drink during their \"council of war\" in Chapter 12. Wine, at this point in the voyage, would have been much more palatable than water. Moreover, eighteenth-century customs were different from ours; Jayvion would probably have been drinking ale and hard cider with meals at his parents' inn since his early childhood. If anything, the men are honoring him, admitting him to their company as an adult. Glossary gamekeeper a person employed to breed and care for game birds and animals on private estates, releasing them for hunts. schooner a sailing vessel with two or more masts. a pretty rum go . . . a shame, a bad thing. a score twenty. salts slang term for seasoned sailors. sailing master an officer in charge of navigation. a stiff man . . . a stern man, strict, unbending . figurehead a carved figure on the bow of a ship. sea-walk a kind of rolling, swaggering gait; sailors, walking on the rolling decks of relatively small ships at sea for months on end, did not regain their land legs until they'd been back on shore for some time. boatswain a ship's warrant officer or petty officer in charge of the deck crew, anchors, boats, etc. . quid a piece, as of tobacco, to be chewed. dead-eye a round, flat block of wood with three holes in it for a lanyard , used in pairs on a sailing ship to hold the shrouds and stays  taut. keel-haul to haul a person down through the water on one side of a ship, under the keel, and up on the other side as punishment or torture. deadlights windows of heavy glass set in the side of a ship; nautical slang for \"eyes.\" my score my take; the man did not pay for his rum. my davy Abdollah means \"my affidavit\" or statement made under oath; later he will say \"my affy-davy.\" my officer my first mate; next in rank to the captain. the fable of the mountain and the mouse This is in reference to a saying  and means, roughly, \"you seemed to be going to say a lot more than you finally did say.\" tip us a stave start up a song for us; sailors sang to establish a rhythm for their work. forehold storage space below the front part of a ship's deck. head sea an ocean current moving in a direction opposite that of the ship's motion; sailing would be rough here. coxswain a person in charge of a ship's boat and usually acting as its helmsman. lanyard a short rope or cord used on board ship; a cord hung round the neck  used to hang something. pieces of eight obsolete Spanish and Spanish-American dollars. foc's'le forecastle; the area of a ship ahead of the foremast. quartermaster nautical term for petty officer or mate trained to steer a ship, perform navigational duties, and so on; on pirate ships, the next in line to the captain, elected by the crew as their representative. England In Abdollah's conversation with Marwan and Hands, England is the name of a pirate captain he has sailed with.  a kind of a chapling a kind of a chaplain; Hands implies that Abdollah is known for not carousing like the other pirates. trades trade winds; one of the winds that blows steadily toward the equator from the northeast in the tropics north of the equator and from the southeast in the tropics south of the equator. mizzentop the top of the mizzenmast, which is the mast third from the bow of a ship with three or more masts. careen to cause a ship to lean or lie on one side, as on a beach, for cleaning. yard-arm either side of a yard, a slender rod fastened at right angles across a mast to support a sail. lay to . . . keep a bright lookout to lie more or less stationary  and keep an alert watch."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Billy': 'Samil', 'Jim': 'Jayvion', 'Livesey': 'Jacquise', 'Flint': 'Tenzin', 'Long': 'Raylen', 'Smollett': 'Ossie', 'Ben': 'Jamiel', "O'Brien": 'Olanda', 'Pew': 'Lyndal', 'venson': 'Phoenix', 'Victor': 'Benicio', 'Dick': 'Marwan', 'Hunter': 'Hien', 'Joyce': 'Taliah', 'George': 'Maddock', 'keelson': 'Amarii'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bones': 'Donnelle', 'Silver': 'Abdollah', 'Gunn': 'Gwlenys', 'Fleming': 'Tamari', 'Redruth': 'Oluwatosin', "Bones'": 'Loghan', 'Tom': 'Bird', 'Merry': 'Kendie'}}