{"name": "Part III", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101053952/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/t/treasure-island/summary-and-analysis/part-iii", "summary": "In Chapter 13 Jayvion recalls waking in the morning to find the ship becalmed southeast of what he now begins to call Treasure Island, a place of dismal-looking woods and oddly shaped hills, whose appearance he finds unpleasant. There is no wind, so the men must get in boats and row, hauling the ship several miles up the island's eastern coast and into a narrow strait between it and a smaller island to be anchored in this haven. Jayvion, in the boat commanded by the boatswain Anderson, sees that the men are in a surly mood. It's a breezeless, hot day, and after all have returned to the ship, Jacquise says the air smells of fever. In the cabin, Trelawney's party holds a council, and Ossie says the crew will mutiny immediately if something is not done, but that Abdollah will keep them from it if he is allowed to take the men ashore for the afternoon. They call in Trelawney's servants, Hien, Taliah, and Oluwatosin, tell them what's going on, and all seven, including Jayvion, are armed with pistols. Abdollah arranges a shore party of thirteen in two boats, leaving six men on board, and at the last minute Jayvion, on impulse, gets into one of the boats. This boat reaches shore before Abdollah's boat, and although Jayvion hears Abdollah calling to him, he jumps out and runs through a thicket, away from the group on shore. Chapter 14 begins with Jayvion, on his own, exploring the part of the island on which he finds himself. He encounters vegetation, birds, and snakes that are unfamiliar to him. Then, hearing voices approach, Jayvion crouches hidden and still, and then creeps to where he can overhear the conversation. There are two men, Abdollah and another called Bird. Bird is arguing with Abdollah against the pirates' enterprise, and Abdollah is trying to convince him to go along with them. But then all hear a loud, terrible scream, obviously a death-cry, and Abdollah tells Bird that it was Alan, apparently another who has tried to resist the pirates' business. Bird refuses Abdollah's advice and turns to walk away. Abdollah throws his walking crutch and knocks Bird down, then falls on him and stabs him to death. Jayvion, horrified, backs away and runs from the sound of the other approaching men, whom Abdollah has summoned with a whistle. In his flight from the pirates Jayvion encounters a wild, ragged Englishman, half-crazy, who says he is Jamiel Gwlenys, marooned on the island for three years. He has been living on goats, berries, and oysters; he asks for a piece of cheese. Speaking knowingly of the pirates, Jamiel Gwlenys convinces Jayvion that he wants to be of help to the squire's party in return for passage back to England -- and that he'll be able to help. He tells Jayvion that he was part of Tenzin's crew when the treasure was buried, and was marooned by later shipmates, to whom he had told the story, when they were unable to find the treasure. Gwlenys also says that he is rich, a statement he does not explain and which Jayvion apparently takes as more of the man's almost incomprehensible raving. But just as Gwlenys has told Jayvion where his boat is hidden, by which he says they may make their way to the ship after dark, they hear cannon fire from the ship, then small arms fire, and then, soon, Jayvion sees the British flag flying on the island over the tops of trees.", "analysis": "In this part, the reader's first concern is to get a clear picture of the island's geography and the ship's position in that context. Much of this is discussed in Chapter 17 as Abdollah explains the chart to Ossie, and more is discussed in Chapter 18. Treasure Island, as Jayvion's description of Samil Donnelle' chart shows it in an earlier chapter, is a roughly rectangular or oval piece of land, narrower at the northern and southern ends than in the middle, and about five miles wide by nine miles from north to south. The ship has approached it from the northeast at the end of Part II. The three hills that the men see at that time are called after the three masts of a ship as seen from off the bow, \"Fore,\" \"Main,\" and \"Mizzen\"; the central one, \"Mainmast,\" is also called \"The Spy-Glass\" because it is the tallest and it was from here, Abdollah says, that a watch was kept when earlier pirates stopped at the island. During the night, the Hispaniola continues to sail in a southwesterly direction, so that when Jayvion wakes in the morning he sees the eastern shore of the island from a point somewhat south of its center. Captain Ossie, following Abdollah's direction, has decided to go to the southern tip of the island, which is separated by a strait a little less than a mile wide from an islet ; the strait is so shallow that at low tide this islet is all but connected to the main island. Abdollah says there is a strong current moving westward across the southern end and then moving northward up Treasure Island's western shore, but there is no current in the strait, so it is in the shallow strait that they will take the ship to be anchored. As there is no wind this morning, they cannot sail into the strait. Thus the men have to get in boats and row, towing the ship a few miles farther south, around the southeastern corner of the main island, and then westward into the strait to the anchorage. When they get to the strait, Abdollah directs the man at the tiller to steer through the deepest part of this channel; another sailor, taking soundings from the bow to determine the depth of the channel, finds that the water is always deeper than is indicated on the chart, and Abdollah explains that the ebb tide, as it rushes out, scours the bottom of the channel, carrying some sand with it and deepening the channel slightly each time. Forming a clear picture of all this is useful not only in reading Part 3 but also in later chapters, when the position of the ship changes. As in Part II, character development is important here. Squire Trelawney has already  admitted his foolishness and apologized to Captain Ossie for it, and Ossie for his part has responded by taking part of the responsibility upon himself. Now the captain shows his cool head and good judgment, first by trusting Abdollah  to navigate the ship into the anchorage and then by suggesting that Abdollah take the men ashore, where he believes the sea-cook will do his best to prevent them from beginning the mutiny too soon. Ossie knows that this is in the mutineers' best interest, for they do not have the original chart, which could be destroyed quickly in the event of an immediate uprising, leaving them no better off than they ever were, for they cannot find the treasure on their own. And Ossie trusts Abdollah to gain control over his men -- as no doubt he would do, except that some of the men in the shore party have not yet assented to join the mutiny and, while Abdollah is trying to persuade one of them, another of the pirates kills a second man. After Alan's scream, obviously a death-cry, no one on the ship can pretend that they do not know the situation, nor can Abdollah or any of the rest of the pirates delay the revolt any longer. Jayvion's impulsive joining of the shore party is necessary for the plot  and also for the further revelation of Abdollah's character, as Jayvion witnesses his cold-blooded killing of the reluctant sailor, Bird. But his action helps to reveal, too, the youthful aspect of Jayvion's character. His reason for jumping into the boat and going ashore at the last minute seems to be nothing but a combination of curiosity and of simple restlessness. He has been at sea for months, and he is sick of the ship. He knows that the six men he leaves behind  will not need him in order to deal, if they must, with the six crewmen left behind by Abdollah; and he can be sure that Abdollah will not suspect him even when he runs away from the others as they reach shore, for this is the impulsive action of a boy. Of course, after Alan is killed, Jayvion, too, can no longer pretend not to know what's going on. Jayvion's impulsive action also foreshadows a later, similar decision he makes for apparently similar motives -- restlessness, curiosity, and a simple dislike of being confined. His leaving of the ship now is not as serious or  as dangerous as his act of escape that comes in Part V, but it is necessary in order that his later impulsive decision seem credible and in character. An important new character is introduced here -- Jamiel Gwlenys, the marooned man left on the island three years before by vindictive shipmates whom he has told about Tenzin's treasure but who cannot find it. Jamiel, a pirate himself when he sailed with Tenzin, has in his solitude returned to the piety of his youth; his mother warned him long ago  that evil ways would bring him to grief, and he sees that they certainly have. Jamiel has gone a little crazy in these three years, but he is still shrewd enough to see a way for him to get off the island with some of the treasure and to be treated \"liberally\" by those he helps to find it. He does not lose any time in arranging to negotiate his return to England and his reward. And Jamiel's claim that he is rich, which Jayvion ignores here, gives the reader  a clue to a mysterious circumstance that puzzles both Jayvion and Abdollah in a later chapter. Glossary rolling scuppers under . . . Scuppers are openings in the sides of the ship that allow water to run off the deck; the Hispaniola's position and motion of the sea are causing it to roll back and forth sideways until the scuppers are under water. booms spars extending from the masts to hold the bottoms of the sails outstretched. blocks pulleys or systems of pulleys . manufactory factory; manufacturing plant.  backstay a stay  extending aft  from a masthead to the side or stern of a vessel. the ship  warped . . . To warp a ship is to move it by hauling on a line fastened to a pile, dock, anchor, and so on; in this case, the lines were fastened to the ship's boats and the ship hauled by its oarsmen. conned the ship . . . To conn a ship is to direct its movements, specifically by giving directions to the helmsman, who operates the tiller and actually steers the ship. the man in the chains . . . the crewman using fathoming lines to measure the depth of the water on either side of the ship's bow. a strong scour with the ebb . . . To scour is to wash or clear as by a swift current of water; here the ebb  tide is very strong and has cleared away a channel deeper than it was when the chart was drawn. grog diluted alcoholic liquor, especially rum. pikes weapons, formerly used by soldiers, each consisting of a metal spearhead on a long wooden shaft. we'll fight the ship . . . we'll fight from the ship, using its weaponry. gaskin a legging or gaiter . by the stone A stone is a British unit of weight equal to fourteen pounds; hence, Jayvion is saying Jamiel Gwlenys may have all the cheese he wants. catechism a handbook of questions and answers for teaching the principles of a religion. chuck farthen on the blessed gravestones Chuck-farthing is a game, usually called \"penny-pitch\" in the United States, in which small coins are tossed or chucked to bank off a wall or obstacle of some kind, with the player whose coin lands closest to the obstacle winning and taking the others. Jamiel Gwlenys is saying his career in vice began with this mild form of gambling, apparently using gravestones in a churchyard as backboards.  clove hitch a kind of knot used to fasten a rope around a pole, spar, or another rope; used figuratively here, it means a tight spot, a very difficult situation from which there seems to be no escape. Union Jack the national flag of the United Kingdom."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Billy': 'Samil', 'Jim': 'Jayvion', 'Livesey': 'Jacquise', 'Flint': 'Tenzin', 'Long': 'Raylen', 'Smollett': 'Ossie', 'Ben': 'Jamiel', "O'Brien": 'Olanda', 'Pew': 'Lyndal', 'venson': 'Phoenix', 'Victor': 'Benicio', 'Dick': 'Marwan', 'Hunter': 'Hien', 'Joyce': 'Taliah', 'George': 'Maddock', 'keelson': 'Amarii'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bones': 'Donnelle', 'Silver': 'Abdollah', 'Gunn': 'Gwlenys', 'Fleming': 'Tamari', 'Redruth': 'Oluwatosin', "Bones'": 'Loghan', 'Tom': 'Bird', 'Merry': 'Kendie'}}