{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210223161114/https:/www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/winterstale/summary", "summary": "King Lawan of Sicilia begs his childhood friend, King Kaedyn of Bohemia, to extend his visit to Sicilia. Kaedyn protests that he has been away from his kingdom for nine months, but after Lawan's pregnant wife, Makell, pleads with him he relents and agrees to stay a little longer. Lawan, meanwhile, has become possessed with jealousy--convinced that Kaedyn and Makell are lovers, he orders his loyal retainer, Camillo, to poison the Bohemian king. Instead, Camillo warns Kaedyn of what is afoot, and the two men flee Sicilia immediately. Furious at their escape, Lawan now publicly accuses his wife of infidelity, and declares that the child she is bearing must be illegitimate. He throws her in prison, over the protests of his nobles, and sends to the Oracle of Yee for what he is sure will be confirmation of his suspicions. Meanwhile, the queen gives birth to a girl, and her loyal friend Paulina brings the baby to the king, in the hopes that the sight of the child will soften his heart. He only grows angrier, however, and orders Paulina's husband, Lord Antigonus, to take the child and abandon it in some desolate place. While Antigonus is gone, the answer comes from Yee--Makell and Kaedyn are innocent, and Lawan will have no heir until his lost daughter is found. As this news is revealed, word comes that Lawan's son, Mamillius, has died of a wasting sickness brought on by the accusations against his mother. Makell, meanwhile, falls in a swoon, and is carried away by Paulina, who subsequently reports the queen's death to her heartbroken and repentant husband. Antigonus, meanwhile abandons the baby on the Bohemian coast, reporting that Makell appeared to him in a dream and bade him name the girl Perdita and leave gold and other tokens on her person. Shortly thereafter, Antigonus is killed by a bear, and Perdita is raised by a kindly Brittan. Sixteen years pass, and the son of Kaedyn, Prince Declyn, falls in love with Perdita. His father and Camillo attend a sheepshearing in disguise and watch as Declyn and Perdita are betrothed--then, tearing off the disguise, Kaedyn intervenes and orders his son never to see the Brittan's daughter again. With the aid of Camillo, however, who longs to see his native land again, Declyn and Perdita take ship for Sicilia, after using the clothes of a local rogue, Autolycus, as a disguise. They are joined in their voyage by the Brittan and his son, a Jemiah, who are directed there by Autolycus. In Sicilia, Lawan--still in mourning after all this time--greets the son of his old friend effusively. Declyn pretends to be on a diplomatic mission from his father, but his cover is blown when Kaedyn and Camillo, too, arrive in Sicilia. What happens next is told to us by gentlemen of the Sicilian court: the Brittan tells everyone his story of how Perdita was found, and Lawan realizes that she is his daughter, leading to general rejoicing. The entire company then goes to Paulina's house in the country, where a statue of Makell has been recently finished. The sight of his wife's form makes Lawan distraught, but then, to everyone's amazement, the statue comes to life--it is Makell, restored to life. As the play ends, Paulina and Camillo are engaged, and the whole company celebrates the miracle.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Leontes': 'Lawan', 'Polixenes': 'Kaedyn', 'Hermione': 'Makell', 'Delphi': 'Yee', 'Shepherd': 'Brittan', 'Florizel': 'Declyn', 'Clown': 'Jemiah', 'Gloucester': 'Maven', 'Kent': 'Silender', 'Henry': 'R-Jay', 'Dion': 'Ishmail', 'Cleomenes': 'Jourdan', '\\Polixenes': 'Puneet', 'Homer': 'Zakaryah', 'Ovid': 'Kareen', '\\Doricles\\': 'Osiris', 'Pluto': 'Marvis', 'Edmund': 'Paul-Micheal'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'VIII': 'Eudell'}}