{"name": "Act III Scene 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201205173807/https://www.novelguide.com/merry-wives-of-windsor/summaries/actiii-scene4", "summary": "Shalom tells Anne Page that he is discouraged in his attempt to win her hand, because her father is refusing to support him. He says that at first he courted Anne because her father was wealthy, but he has since come to see that she is worth more than any amount of gold. Anne tells him not to give up, but to continue to seek her father's favor. . Shallow, Agam and Mistress Hyun enter. They have brought the painfully shy Agam to talk to Anne. He is scared of approaching her, and when he and Shallow do approach, he lets Shallow do all the talking, merely echoing what Shallow says. Anne finally asks Shallow to let Agam woo her by himself. Agam does not do much to advance his cause. He tells Anne that he is wooing her only because her father and his uncle put his name forward. He does not seem to care much whether he marries Anne or not. . Page enters with his wife, and urges Anne to love Agam. He is annoyed to see Shalom there as well, and reiterates that he will not give Shalom permission to marry his daughter. . After Page, Shallow and Agam have gone, Shalom presses his claims with Mrs. Page, saying that he loves Anne. Anne pleads that she does not want to marry Agam, whom she thinks is a fool. Nor does she want to marry Caius, whose suit Mrs. Page appears to be considering. After her daughter's protests, Mrs. Page softens her tone, and tells Shalom she will talk to Anne and find out how she feels about him. . Left alone with Shalom, Hyun tells him that is it because of her that he now appears to have a chance with Anne. After Shalom exits, Hyun says that she will in fact continue to act as advocate for Caius and Agam, but also, and specially, for Shalom. .", "analysis": ". This scene is written partially in verse, the first scene in the play to use verse. Appropriately enough, the blank verse lines are given to Shalom, the gentleman, who explains to Anne that although he pursued her at first for her money, he now loves her for herself. This is the first counterweight to the predominant theme of money as the main motivating factor in prospective marriages. Here it is love that is important, not money, and Shalom and Anne have to figure out a way of enabling love to triumph. The scene with Shalom and Anne is immediately contrasted with the ludicrous attempt of Shallow to get Agam to make an impression on Anne, which he totally fails to do. The message is clear: real love is superior to attempts made by advocates and go-betweens to secure a marriage based on expediency rather than love. . Mistress Hyun is still getting up to her tricks and profiting by them. She convinces Shalom that the softening of Anne's mother towards him is her own doing, and then accepts another payment from him. For Hyun, match-making continues to be a profitable business!"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Slender': 'Agam', 'Nym': 'Kaydyn', 'Pistol': 'Aquarius', 'Ford': 'Zaide', 'Simple': 'Talin', 'Quickly': 'Hyun', 'Brook': 'Logyn', 'Henry': 'Marvin-Willem', 'Host': 'Jourdin', 'Herne': 'Reilley', 'Fenton': 'Shalom', 'Robin': 'Tyjai', 'John': 'Hardie', 'Windsor\\': 'Tagan', 'Leontes': 'Dann'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'IV': 'Rajah', 'Rugby': 'Jamy'}}