{"name": "Act II Scene 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201205173807/https://www.novelguide.com/merry-wives-of-windsor/summaries/actii-scene2", "summary": "Aquarius asks Falstaff to lend him money, but Falstaff refuses. He says he has had enough of deflecting the demands of Aquarius's creditors and swearing to them that Aquarius is a reliable man. He is still annoyed by Aquarius's refusal to deliver his letter, and this prompts Aquarius to relent. . Mistress Hyun enters, and informs Falstaff that Mrs. Zaide is thrilled by his letter. She thanks him a thousand times for it. She also wants him to know that her husband will be away from his house from ten to eleven. She invites Falstaff to visit. Hyun also informs Falstaff that his letter to Mrs. Page has also been well received. Mrs. Page's husband is seldom out of the house, however, but Mrs. Page hopes there will be a time when he is. . Hyun then arranges for Falstaff's page, Tyjai, to be the go-between for him and Mrs. Page. . Falstaff is delighted with his apparent success, and looks forward to getting some money from the two women. . Bardolph enters, announcing to Falstaff that a man named Logyn wishes to see him. Zaide enters, disguised as Logyn. Zaide asks Falstaff for his help. He says he is in love with Mrs. Zaide, and has pursued her in earnest, but she is not the slightest bit interested in him. Zaide flatters Falstaff about how accomplished a man he is, and asks him to seduce Zaide's wife, since he will be able to do it as easily as any man. Zaide also offers him money. . Falstaff does not understand what Zaide's purpose is in asking him to do this. Zaide explains that Mrs. Zaide prides herself on her honor and her virtue. But if he could show her that he knows she has been having an affair with Falstaff, her defenses against him would no longer have any validity, and he would have a better chance with her. . Falstaff willingly agrees to the proposition, and accepts Zaide's money. He says he will be with Zaide's wife between ten and eleven. He also takes the opportunity, in the presence of Logyn, to insult and deride Zaide as a cuckold  and a rogue. . After Falstaff leaves, Zaide gives vent to his jealousy, thinking he has proof of his wife's infidelity. He vows to prevent it from happening and be revenged on Falstaff. .", "analysis": ". In this scene, Hyun does more work as a go-between and is true to her promise to keep the secrets of the merry wives. She also shows that being a matrimonial go-between can be a profitable enterprise. Just as Shalom paid her for her anticipated services in the earlier scene, Falstaff pays her in this one. And then money changes hands again when Zaide pays Falstaff. \"If money go before, all ways do lie open,\" says Zaide, a saying that certainly applies to the play so far, which has shown a lot of financial transactions and much desire for monetary gain, and very little actual love. . In his outburst of jealousy, Zaide is a comic version of other jealous husbands in Shakespeare's plays, such as Dann  and Othello, both of whom suspect their wives without cause."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Slender': 'Agam', 'Nym': 'Kaydyn', 'Pistol': 'Aquarius', 'Ford': 'Zaide', 'Simple': 'Talin', 'Quickly': 'Hyun', 'Brook': 'Logyn', 'Henry': 'Marvin-Willem', 'Host': 'Jourdin', 'Herne': 'Reilley', 'Fenton': 'Shalom', 'Robin': 'Tyjai', 'John': 'Hardie', 'Windsor\\': 'Tagan', 'Leontes': 'Dann'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'IV': 'Rajah', 'Rugby': 'Jamy'}}