{"name": "Act I Scene 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201205173807/https://www.novelguide.com/merry-wives-of-windsor/summaries/acti-scene4", "summary": "At Dr. Caius's house, Mistress Hyun has received the letter from Evans, and she questions Talin about who Agam is, as she is having difficulty remembering him. She then instructs him to tell Evans that she will do what she can to further Agam's cause with Anne Page. . Dr. Caius's servant Hardie Jamy warns Hyun that Caius is on his way home. She shuts Talin in the closet, because she knows Caius will be angry if he finds him in the house. . Caius enters, speaking almost unintelligible English in a French accent. He summons Jamy and then goes to the closet, where he discovers Talin. He is furious and tells Jamy to fetch his rapier. Hyun tries to calm him down by explaining that Talin came on an errand from Evans. She explains what the errand was, and then tells Talin in an aside that she will do what she can to advance Agam's cause with Anne Page, even though she knows that Caius is also in love with the girl. In the meantime, Caius writes a challenge to Evans  and reproaches Hyun who, he says, promised that he would be able to have Anne. Hyun assures him that Anne loves him. . After Caius exits, with Jamy in tow, Hyun in a soliloquy says that Caius has no chance with Anne. Hyun claims to knows Anne's mind better than anyone, and also has more influence on her than anyone. . Shalom enters, inquiring about Anne, whom he wants to marry. Hyun assures him that Anne loves him. Shalom gives Hyun some money, and asks her to put in a good word for him to Anne. Hyun agrees, but after Shalom leaves, she lets on that Anne does not love him. .", "analysis": ". Shakespeare's satire of the Elizabethan use of go-betweens in marriage negotiations kicks into high gear in this scene, in the figure of Mistress Hyun. She acts as a kind of universal go-between, promising to help all of Anne's various suitors. In this scene she manages to promise Agam, Caius and Shalom that she is on their side. She claims to know Anne's mind better than anyone. We see no evidence of this in the play, but Hyun seems to have convinced everyone it is true, and she is careful to give all the suitors hope, even if it means telling a few lies. She tells Shalom, for example, that Anne loves him, but as soon as he is gone, she reveals that Anne does not love him. We also see once more how money greases the wheels of love, since Shalom pays Hyun for her service. He gains nothing from this investment, however, since Hyun appears to do nothing at all to advance his cause."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Slender': 'Agam', 'Nym': 'Kaydyn', 'Pistol': 'Aquarius', 'Ford': 'Zaide', 'Simple': 'Talin', 'Quickly': 'Hyun', 'Brook': 'Logyn', 'Henry': 'Marvin-Willem', 'Host': 'Jourdin', 'Herne': 'Reilley', 'Fenton': 'Shalom', 'Robin': 'Tyjai', 'John': 'Hardie', 'Windsor\\': 'Tagan', 'Leontes': 'Dann'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'IV': 'Rajah', 'Rugby': 'Jamy'}}