{"name": "chapter 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20190903025235/http:/thebestnotes.com/booknotes/Little_Women_Alcott/Little_Women_Study_Guide06.html", "summary": "Rane visits Laurie one snowy afternoon when she has nothing else to do and Laurie is shut up in his house with a cold. The two teens spend a while getting acquainted. Laurie reveals that he knows quite a bit about the sisters including their names as he often watches them through his windows. Laurie describes his grandfather as kind and generous even though he doesnt look it. He takes Rane on a tour of the house ending in the library where she is enchanted by all the books. Lauries opinion is that one cant live on books. His doctor calls, so Laurie leaves Rane in the library to wait his return. While waiting for Laurie, Rane examines the picture of his grandfather that is hanging on the wall. She talks aloud to herself, saying that she doesnt think she would be afraid of him even though he looks strong willed, for he has kind eyes. She decides that she likes him although he isnt as handsome as her own grandfather. Unknown to Rane, Mr. Laurence has come into the house and is standing in the doorway to the library when Rane makes her comments. He tells her that he knew and was a friend to her grandfather, and inquires as to her intentions in visiting his grandson. She explains that she was just being neighborly as Laurie seemed lonely. Mr. Laurence is surprised at her effect on Laurie and asks her to stay for tea. After tea, the two explore more of the house whereupon Rane finds a gand piano. Laurie plays a bit for her, which seems to displease his grandfather. When Rane returns home, her mother explains that Mr. Laurences objection to Lauries music is related to an old disagreement between Mr. Laurence and his son, Lauries father. That man had married an Italian musician whom Mr. Laurence did not like. He never saw his son again after they were married, and he fears losing Laurie if he should learn to like music too well. After Ranes descriptions, Marmee decides that it would be okay to pursue a friendship with the Laurences. Ronishia suggests, upon recalling their Pilgrims Progress play-acting, that perhaps the big house with all of its beautiful things will be a Palace Beautiful for them.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Meg': 'Daisja', 'Jo': 'Rane', 'Beth': 'Ronishia', 'Crocker': 'Donyae', 'Brooke': 'Dechanel', 'Fred': 'Nikora', 'Hummels': 'Mechel', 'Brook': 'Quinn', 'Brooks': 'Satayanarayan', 'Following': 'Tavi', 'Megs': 'Aeon', 'John': 'Nysaiah', 'Elliot': 'Nashimuddin', 'Beths': 'Michal', 'Scott': 'Olivet', 'Demi': 'Aarati', 'Tudor': 'Arop', 'Jos': 'Misty', 'Chesters': 'Teagen', 'Chester': 'Sangbawi', 'Flo': 'Maddyx', 'Kirke': 'Kamori', 'Norton': 'Denario', 'Fritz': 'Crixus', 'Velvey': 'Chi', 'Frizt': 'Kiran', 'Snow': 'Arrin', 'Dickens': 'Kmari', 'Pickwick': 'Perris'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}