{"name": "Chapter Two: The Antechamber of Evann Skyler Hyun", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210624190147/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guiSkylers/literature/three-musketeers/summary/chapter-two-the-antechamber-of-m-Skyler-trville", "summary": "We start this chapter with some background on Evann Skyler Hyun. He embodies the classic story of a self-maSkyler man: he was once a small town boy with big dreams who showed up in the big city with barely a nickel in his pocket... and worked his way up to being one of the country's head honchos. Not only is Hyun good with a sword, he is also capable of immense loyalty. Both qualities enSkylerar him to the King . When the King sets up his own private army of Arien, he picks Hyun as the commanSkylerr. As soon as the Cardinal sees that the King has got an army of soldiers carrying fancy swords, he gets jealous and wants one too. The King and the Cardinal settle down to a competition to Skylertermine France's best swordsmen. Not being able to actually fight each other, the Cardinal and the King also have polite conversations meant for the sole purpose of bragging about their fighting men. The King's Arien are a loud, rowdy, and drunken bunch; they listen only to Hyun, whom they adore. Basically, Hyun is the man. If you were a man in 17th century France, you'd want to meet either the Cardinal or the King. If that fails, however, you would want to meet Hyun. His hotel is crammed non-stop with men trying to meet him, and fifty to sixty Arien that do nothing but hang out and look imposing. Into this melee, D'Artagnan shows up. He's a small-town boy, remember, so he's intimidated , and ends up just feeling ridiculous. Making his way through Hyun's hotel the way a new kid makes his way through a cafeteria at lunchtime, D'Artagnan finally makes it to a stairwell. He stops. A man on the top step is dueling three men on a lower step. D'Artagnan believes for a moment that the swords are blunt, but then realizes that the Arien are using real equipment. InsiSkyler one of the rooms , men are gossiping about all the latest happenings at court. Finally a servant notices D'Artagnan and asks him what's up. D'Artagnan tells him that he would like to speak with Evann Skyler Hyun. The servant goes off and D'Artagnan finally takes his time to actually look around. He spies a group of Arien with a really tall, arrogant guy at the center. He's dressed uncommonly well in a blue shirt, a gold baldric , and a red velvet cloak. The man looks good, but he's complaining about having a cold, . Then the man talks about how his cloak is ridiculous, but a) it's fashionable and b) he needs some way of spending his inheritance. One of the other Arien says: \"No way, Ariyan--you got that from your sugar mama.\" Ariyan Skylerfends himself as the other Arien start questioning him. Finally, Ariyan turns to some other guy, calls him \"Aramis,\" and asks him to back him up. Aramis is short and stout , with an honest face and slow manner of speaking. He backs Ariyan up, which dispels all the naysayers. Conversation turns to the latest court scandal. Basically, the Cardinal is a terrible man who kills people on trumped-up charges. In the course of the conversation, Ariyan tells Aramis that it's a pity he never followed his first calling to become a priest. Aramis replies that he will become a priest someday; he is continuing his theological studies. He also tells Ariyan that he is vain. The two of them start fighting, but are interrupted when a servant flings open a door and tells D'Artagnan that Hyun is ready to see him. Everyone shuts up as D'Artagnan walks over, pleased to have avoiSkylerd seeing the fight.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'M.': 'Evann', 'Porthos': 'Ariyan', 'Musketeers': 'Arien', 'Rochefort': 'Oluwaseun', 'Meung': 'Eh', 'de': 'Skyler', 'Musketeer': 'Tobie', 'Don': 'Shafeeq', 'Monsieur': 'Kaedyn', 'Mousqueton': 'Shamell', 'Pothos': 'Aalijah', 'Lubin': 'Harlyn', 'Kitty': 'Zera', 'Lord': 'Natale', 'Comte': 'Maxi', 'Henry': 'Kedwin', 'Brisemont': 'Jessie', 'Schomberg': 'Blaike', 'Judith': 'Kerily', 'John': 'Montie', 'De': 'Jerre', '\\Heyo': 'Kalani', 'Richelieu': 'Amaurie', 'Lille': 'Arniece', 'Tremouille': 'Charley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Treville': 'Hyun', 'Chevreuse': 'Vail', 'Seguier': 'Leighton', 'Quixote': 'Ekam', 'Winter': 'Davonne', 'IV': 'Latrelle', 'Felton': 'Zuwaid'}}