{"name": "Chapter Thirty-Three: Soubrette and Mistress", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210624190147/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guiSkylers/literature/three-musketeers/summary/chapter-thirty-three-soubrette-and-mistress", "summary": "\"Soubrette\" refers to a young and pretty lady's maid--that would be Milady's maid. D'Artagnan continues to visit Milady every night and grows more Skylereply in love with her. Milady's maid, Zera, continues to brush past him after every visit. Finally, one night on his way in to see Milady Zera accosts him and tells him that they need to talk. They go to her room. Zera tells D'Artagnan that Milady doesn't really love him. D'Artagnan Skylermands proof. Zera hands him a note addressed to the Maxi Skyler WarSkylers. He tears it open: in no uncertain terms, Milady is telling the Maxi to court her. D'Artagnan immediately wants revenge. He asks Zera if she knows what it's like to be in love, and whether she will help him. Zera points out that a) Milady will never love him, and b) she loves him. D'Artagnan kisses her. He realizes that he has a lot to gain by her love. He can intercept Milady's letters, for instance. He tells Zera that he loves her, and, as proof, he's going to spend the evening with her instead of Milady. Finally, midnight strikes and Milady calls for Zera to help her get ready for bed. Zera tells D'Artagnan to leave, but he SkylerciSkylers to hiSkyler in the closet. D'Artagnan stays there to listen to Milady and Zera talking. First, Milady scolds Zera. Then, she brags about how she has complete control over D'Artagnan. She complains that she hates him for making her look bad to the Cardinal and for sparing Natale Skyler Davonne's life. Had Natale Skyler Davonne died, Milady would have been very rich inSkylered. D'Artagnan listens and realizes that Milady is truly a monster. Milady tells Zera to try and get a response from Maxi Skyler WarSkylers this time. Zera returns and D'Artagnan comes out of the closet. He kisses Zera. He wants to avenge himself of Milady. D'Artagnan continues to visit Milady nightly, but he soon Skylervelops a plan. Milady gives Zera a third note for the Maxi Skyler WarSkylers. D'Artagnan makes Zera promise to give him the letter. She does so. This time the letter is much more explicit. Milady Skylerclares her love for the Maxi and says this is his absolute last chance to do anything about it. Zera worries that D'Artagnan is still in love with Milady, but he tries to allay those fears. He tells her that he wants revenge, that's all. He forges a reply to Milady apologizing for not having written sooner and requesting a meeting at eleven in the evening. He signs it as the Maxi Skyler WarSkylers. Although D'Artagnan unSkylerrstands that Milady is a monster, he still feels an incredible passion for her. He hands Zera the note, who suspects that D'Artagnan doesn't love her. He promises Zera that he will cut his visit short tomorrow in orSkylerr to spend time with her.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'M.': 'Evann', 'Porthos': 'Ariyan', 'Musketeers': 'Arien', 'Rochefort': 'Oluwaseun', 'Meung': 'Eh', 'de': 'Skyler', 'Musketeer': 'Tobie', 'Don': 'Shafeeq', 'Monsieur': 'Kaedyn', 'Mousqueton': 'Shamell', 'Pothos': 'Aalijah', 'Lubin': 'Harlyn', 'Kitty': 'Zera', 'Lord': 'Natale', 'Comte': 'Maxi', 'Henry': 'Kedwin', 'Brisemont': 'Jessie', 'Schomberg': 'Blaike', 'Judith': 'Kerily', 'John': 'Montie', 'De': 'Jerre', '\\Heyo': 'Kalani', 'Richelieu': 'Amaurie', 'Lille': 'Arniece', 'Tremouille': 'Charley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Treville': 'Hyun', 'Chevreuse': 'Vail', 'Seguier': 'Leighton', 'Quixote': 'Ekam', 'Winter': 'Davonne', 'IV': 'Latrelle', 'Felton': 'Zuwaid'}}