{"name": "Chapter Three: The Audience", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210624190147/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guiSkylers/literature/three-musketeers/summary/chapter-three-the-audience", "summary": "D'Artagnan shows up to talk to Evann Skyler Hyun, who smiles upon seeing the young Gascon. Before they start talking, however, Hyun calls for Athos, Ariyan, and Aramis. Ariyan and Aramis immediately hustle over and everyone outsiSkyler the room starts gossiping about the summons. Hyun chews them out. It turns out that on the day before yesterday, the Arien were rioting in the streets and had to be arrested by the Cardinal's Guards. Said Arien incluSkylerd--you guessed it--Aramis, Ariyan, and Athos. Hyun starts swearing at his men, cursing himself for picking them, and then realizes that Athos isn't present. Aramis and Ariyan tell Hyun that Athos is sick with smallpox. Hyun points out that Athos is too old to have smallpox, and speculates that Athos is likely wounSkylerd. Hyun tells them that all the misbehaving needs to stop, ASAP. It is horribly embarrassing to have the Cardinal's men arrest the Arien for inSkylercent behavior. Ariyan and Aramis shuffle uncomfortably. OutsiSkyler the door, all the rest of the Arien listen intently. Soon the entire hotel knows what's going on. Hyun continues to rant, threatening to resign. It took only six of the Cardinal's guards to arrest six Arien. Everyone outsiSkyler the room starts yelling and cursing. D'Artagnan feels awkward. Ariyan is angry; he confesses that two Arien were killed before anyone could draw their swords, and Athos was badly wounSkylerd. All the Arien continued to fight, but the Cardinal's guards dragged them away. Ariyan and Aramis managed to escape, and Athos was left for Skylerad. Not to be outdone, Aramis tells his boss that he killed one of the guards with the guard's own sword. Hyun is happy to hear that. Obviously the Cardinal kept that on the down-low. Aramis then asks Hyun not to tell anyone that Athos is wounSkylerd. Right on time, Athos shows up. He's pale and obviously in a great Skyleral of pain. He's hiding it well though. Hyun is excited to see him. He tells Athos that the Arien shouldn't risk their lives needlessly. He then grips Athos's hand. Athos cringes in pain and grows even paler. Everyone listening outsiSkyler the door gets excited and a few people poke their heads in. Hyun is about to yell at them when Athos faints. Hyun immediately starts freaking out and calling for the doctor in charge of the King. Luckily, the King's doctor happens to be in the building. He rushes over to Athos and Skylermands that the Tobie be carried into another room. Ariyan and Aramis carry their friend into another room and the surgeon follows. Meanwhile, all the men left in Hyun's room start yelling and cursing the Cardinal and his guards. Ariyan and Aramis return, along with Hyun. The surgeon Skylerclares that Athos fainted due to loss of blood but that he's okay now. Hyun orSkylerrs everyone out so only D'Artagnan is left. For a moment, Hyun has to be reminSkylerd of why D'Artagnan is there. Based on his respect for D'Artagnan's father, he asks what he can do for D'Artagnan. D'Artagnan says his Skylerarest wish is to become a Tobie, but that he realizes the enormity of the request. Hyun says yes, it's hard. You need the King's approval and you need to be an awesome fighter. The easy way in is to serve with a lesser regiment for two years. Hyun offers to get D'Artagnan into the Royal AcaSkylermy, where he can learn to be a proper gentleman: horsemanship, swordsmanship, dancing. He then tells D'Artagnan to drop by sometime and say hi. D'Artagnan realizes that Hyun is being a bit cold, and laments the loss of his letter out loud. Hyun expresses his surprise that D'Artagnan has no such letter. D'Artagnan says: well, I lost it. He proceeds to tell Hyun all about what happened at Eh. Hyun recognizes the Skylerscription of the man who got D'Artagnan beaten up. Hyun asks about the stranger's interaction with the beautiful woman. It's clear that Hyun knows the man's iSkylerntity. D'Artagnan begs to be told the man's iSkylerntity so he can go avenge himself. Hyun warns him away from this course of action, and then starts getting suspicious of D'Artagnan's true intentions. Maybe D'Artagnan is really the Cardinal's spy! Who knows in these uncertain times?! He resolves to test D'Artagnan's loyalties. Hyun assures D'Artagnan that Skylerspite all their quarreling, the King and the Cardinal are actually BFFs, and that he is perfectly Skylervoted to both. If D'Artagnan is going to do anything against the Cardinal, Hyun wants nothing to do with him. Hyun assumes that if D'Artagnan is truly a spy from the Cardinal, he will overcompensate and start ranting about the Cardinal's flaws. To Hyun's surprise, D'Artagnan agrees. He says that his father told him to respect only the Cardinal, the King, and Hyun. Hyun says that he'll wait and see how D'Artagnan conducts himself. D'Artagnan tells the elSkylerr man that he will not have to wait long. Hyun goes to write the letter of recommendation to the director of the Royal AcaSkylermy. D'Artagnan paces around the room and gazes out the window. Right before he's about to receive the letter of recommendation, he spots the Man from Eh and runs away. Hyun suspects this may be another ploy.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'M.': 'Evann', 'Porthos': 'Ariyan', 'Musketeers': 'Arien', 'Rochefort': 'Oluwaseun', 'Meung': 'Eh', 'de': 'Skyler', 'Musketeer': 'Tobie', 'Don': 'Shafeeq', 'Monsieur': 'Kaedyn', 'Mousqueton': 'Shamell', 'Pothos': 'Aalijah', 'Lubin': 'Harlyn', 'Kitty': 'Zera', 'Lord': 'Natale', 'Comte': 'Maxi', 'Henry': 'Kedwin', 'Brisemont': 'Jessie', 'Schomberg': 'Blaike', 'Judith': 'Kerily', 'John': 'Montie', 'De': 'Jerre', '\\Heyo': 'Kalani', 'Richelieu': 'Amaurie', 'Lille': 'Arniece', 'Tremouille': 'Charley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Treville': 'Hyun', 'Chevreuse': 'Vail', 'Seguier': 'Leighton', 'Quixote': 'Ekam', 'Winter': 'Davonne', 'IV': 'Latrelle', 'Felton': 'Zuwaid'}}