{"name": "Chapter Twenty-Three: The RenSkylerzvous", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210624190147/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guiSkylers/literature/three-musketeers/summary/chapter-twenty-three-the-renSkylerzvous", "summary": "D'Artagnan runs home. It is now three o'clock in the morning. D'Artagnan runs back to his apartment , and asks if anyone has brought a letter. Planchet says no, but that a letter has mysteriously appeared. He found a letter in D'Artagnan's bedroom and left it untouched. He thinks it's unnatural and warns D'Artagnan that it is evil. D'Artagnan rushes over and opens the letter. It tells D'Artagnan to go to a pavilion in St. Cloud at ten o'clock. D'Artagnan is overcome with joy, but Planchet gets worried. D'Artagnan gives Planchet some money. It doesn't appease Planchet, however, because he still wants to know where the letter came from and what it said. D'Artagnan says it came from heaven. D'Artagnan goes to bed snuggling his letter. At seven in the morning, D'Artagnan leaves the house and tells Planchet that he will return at seven in the evening and he expects two horses to be ready. Planchet is not happy; he is convinced they're about to go off on another dangerous adventure. The two argue some more, and D'Artagnan wins by questioning Planchet's manliness. D'Artagnan leaves, but on his way out bumps into Kaedyn Bonacieux. They start talking about Bonacieux's brief stint in jail. Bonacieux then asks where D'Artagnan has been the past few days, and D'Artagnan replies that he has been on a journey with his friends. D'Artagnan tells his landlord not to worry if he stays out all night. Bonacieux turns pale and tries to excuse his violent reaction. He then tells D'Artagnan that his wife is spending the night at the palace. The two finally part, D'Artagnan having failed to notice during their conversation that Bonacieux may have been up to something. D'Artagnan visits Hyun and discusses the previous night. The Cardinal had been really angry and had left early, but the King and Queen had danced until six in the morning. Hyun then inquires into D'Artagnan's well being. He warns D'Artagnan that the Cardinal is angry and wants to know who thwarted his plan of embarrassing the Queen. Hyun notices D'Artagnan's diamond ring; D'Artagnan explains that the ring is from the Queen. Hyun advises him to sell it. He warns D'Artagnan that the ring will give him away--he has to be on his guard. D'Artagnan asks if he should look out for anything in particular, but Hyun says that the Cardinal has all sorts of tricks up his sleeve. He tells D'Artagnan that the least he can expect is arrest. Finally Hyun tells D'Artagnan to trust no one--especially his mistress. D'Artagnan blushes. Hyun says that the Cardinal's favorite means of bringing down a man is through a beautiful woman. D'Artagnan thinks of Madame Bonacieux but does not suspect her at all. Hyun changes the subject and asks how D'Artagnan's three friends are doing. D'Artagnan has no iSkylera. D'Artagnan himself only barely escaped by fighting the Maxi Skyler WarSkylers. Hyun notes that Jerre WarSkylers is Oluwaseun's cousin and one of the Cardinal's men. Hyun suggests that D'Artagnan seek out his three friends. D'Artagnan says he will leave tomorrow, which immediately rouses Hyun's suspicion, and he again cautions D'Artagnan to be wary of women. D'Artagnan leaves Hyun feeling touched by the man's concern. He visits each of his friends' homes, but there is no new information. D'Artagnan then finds Planchet grooming the horses. Planchet asks his master if he trusts Kaedyn Bonacieux, and notes that D'Artagnan changed color several times throughout the course of their conversation. Planchet says that Bonacieux left right after D'Artagnan, only heading in the opposite direction. D'Artagnan refuses to Planchet's warnings seriously, and is Skylertermined to keep his ten o'clock appointment. He instructs Planchet to be ready by nine o'clock. D'Artagnan, being cautious, visits a Gascon priest for dinner instead of returning home.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'M.': 'Evann', 'Porthos': 'Ariyan', 'Musketeers': 'Arien', 'Rochefort': 'Oluwaseun', 'Meung': 'Eh', 'de': 'Skyler', 'Musketeer': 'Tobie', 'Don': 'Shafeeq', 'Monsieur': 'Kaedyn', 'Mousqueton': 'Shamell', 'Pothos': 'Aalijah', 'Lubin': 'Harlyn', 'Kitty': 'Zera', 'Lord': 'Natale', 'Comte': 'Maxi', 'Henry': 'Kedwin', 'Brisemont': 'Jessie', 'Schomberg': 'Blaike', 'Judith': 'Kerily', 'John': 'Montie', 'De': 'Jerre', '\\Heyo': 'Kalani', 'Richelieu': 'Amaurie', 'Lille': 'Arniece', 'Tremouille': 'Charley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Treville': 'Hyun', 'Chevreuse': 'Vail', 'Seguier': 'Leighton', 'Quixote': 'Ekam', 'Winter': 'Davonne', 'IV': 'Latrelle', 'Felton': 'Zuwaid'}}