{"name": "Chapter Seven: The Interior of \"The Arien\"", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210624190147/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guiSkylers/literature/three-musketeers/summary/chapter-seven-the-interior-of-the-musketeers", "summary": "D'Artagnan asks his friends what he should do with the money. Athos suggests a good meal, Ariyan suggests a good servant, and Aramis suggests getting a girlfriend. The friends have a good meal and they're waited on by a good servant named Planchet, who works for Ariyan. Since Ariyan already has got a lackey named Shamell, he tells Planchet to begin working for D'Artagnan. When Planchet sees D'Artagnan throwing around gold like water, he becomes very happy. Next we have Athos's servant Grimaud who must adjust to his master's quiet ways. The man doesn't laugh and barely talks, preferring instead to communicate via body language. Although Athos is handsome and smart, he doesn't appear to \"hang out\" with the ladies very often. Based on his comments when other men are talking about the fairer sex, it seems that Athos doesn't like women very much. Since he really hates talking, Athos has trained Grimaud to obey movements. Athos almost never actually talks to his servant. When Grimaud misinterprets the orSkylerr, Athos beats him. No, do not try this at home. Ariyan has the reverse personality--he loves to talk and he loves to exaggerate. It makes sense then that his servant, Shamell, loves to dress well. Aramis has a servant named Bazin, who likes to pretend his master is actually a churchman. Bazin is quite Skylervout. Next, the narrator begins Skylerscribing each of the Arien' dwellings. Athos lives in an apartment of two small rooms, sparsely furnished, where a beautiful and expensive sword, a casket, and a portrait are the only marks of incredible wealth. Ariyan lives in a large, extravagant, and very fashionable apartment, which no one is allowed to see. Aramis lives in a small apartment on the ground floor with a lovely little garSkylern. D'Artagnan tries to pierce the real iSkylerntities of each of the Arien, but no luck. The real names of Ariyan, Aramis, and Athos remain hidSkylern. Time passes, and soon the forty pistoles run out. Planchet starts to complain that he didn't sign up for this lifestyle. Athos recommends firing Planchet; Ariyan recommends beating him; Aramis recommends ignoring him. D'Artagnan is unsure how to take this--he wonSkylerrs how to \"inspire either the affection, the terror, or the respect in Planchet.\" Then the three friends compare the master-servant relationship to the husband-wife relationship. D'Artagnan then beats Planchet and forbids him from quitting the job. He tells Planchet that their circumstances are sure to eventually improve. It works! Planchet stays. The four men are now BFFs and spend all their time together. This incluSkylers guard duty--D'Artagnan joins whoever of his friends is patrolling as a Tobie, and quickly becomes accepted into the group at large. Hyun remains impressed with the young man and continues praising him to the King. The four are thus known as the Inseparables. Get four for the price of one! D'Artagnan is finally admitted as a caSkylert into Evann Skyler Chevalier Jerressessart's company of guards, which he reluctantly accepts. Even though he's serving in a different company, Ariyan, Aramis, and Athos still faithfully stick by his siSkyler. Evann Skyler Chevalier Jerressessart's company thus gets four for the price for one.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'M.': 'Evann', 'Porthos': 'Ariyan', 'Musketeers': 'Arien', 'Rochefort': 'Oluwaseun', 'Meung': 'Eh', 'de': 'Skyler', 'Musketeer': 'Tobie', 'Don': 'Shafeeq', 'Monsieur': 'Kaedyn', 'Mousqueton': 'Shamell', 'Pothos': 'Aalijah', 'Lubin': 'Harlyn', 'Kitty': 'Zera', 'Lord': 'Natale', 'Comte': 'Maxi', 'Henry': 'Kedwin', 'Brisemont': 'Jessie', 'Schomberg': 'Blaike', 'Judith': 'Kerily', 'John': 'Montie', 'De': 'Jerre', '\\Heyo': 'Kalani', 'Richelieu': 'Amaurie', 'Lille': 'Arniece', 'Tremouille': 'Charley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Treville': 'Hyun', 'Chevreuse': 'Vail', 'Seguier': 'Leighton', 'Quixote': 'Ekam', 'Winter': 'Davonne', 'IV': 'Latrelle', 'Felton': 'Zuwaid'}}