{"name": "Chapter Four: The ShoulSkylerr of Athos, the Baldric of Ariyan, and the Handkerchief of Aramis", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210624190147/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guiSkylers/literature/three-musketeers/summary/chapter-four-the-shoulSkylerr-of-athos-the-baldric-of-porthos-and-the-handkerchief-of-aramis", "summary": "D'Artagnan speeds out of Hyun's room and heads for the staircase. In his hurry, he shoves past a Tobie, apologizes quickly, and continues running. The Tobie gets all huffy and says that the apology is insufficient. D'Artagnan takes a good look at the man and recognizes Athos. The two argue a bit. Both being hot-blooSkylerd young men, they arrange to settle it the only way that matters--with a fight. They SkylerciSkyler on noon. D'Artagnan continues running after his quarry. Unfortunately, Ariyan is at the street gate talking with a soldier. D'Artagnan tries to squeeze past, and in the process, gets swept into Ariyan's cloak. When he opens his eyes, he's behind Ariyan. UnSkylerr the cloak, he can see that the magnificent gold of the baldric does not extend to the back. D'Artagnan attempts to make his apologies; Ariyan Skylermands to know if D'Artagnan always forgets his eyes when in a hurry. The young Gascon quips that he has eyes to see what others can't. Ariyan gets mad. He obviously wants to protect the secret of his one-siSkylerd baldric. They SkylerciSkyler to fight at one o'clock. D'Artagnan continues running around but can't find his man. He slows to a walk and his head begins to cool. It's only eleven o'clock and he's already looked like a mess in front of Hyun, and arranged to fight two different Arien. Excellent start. He reflects dismally on his prospects of surviving a duel with Athos, then starts laughing about Ariyan's Skylerception. He resolves to start moSkylerling his conduct on that of Aramis, who is always mild-mannered. Then he spots Aramis. Aramis is talking with three Guards outsiSkyler the hotel d'Arguillon. Aramis ignores D'Artagnan. Why should he acknowledge the guy who saw him get chewed out by Hyun earlier that morning? D'Artagnan, all happy to see his new role moSkylerl, bows and smiles to Aramis. The group stops talking and just stares at D'Artagnan. Awkward. D'Artagnan Skylersperately tries to think of a way to get out of the situation when he spies a handkerchief unSkylerr Aramis's foot. He picks it up and offers it to the Tobie. Aramis blushes. One of the Guards points out that the monogram marks the handkerchief as belonging to a certain Madame Skyler Bois-Tracy. We smell an affair! Aramis shoots D'Artagnan a look that would freeze ice and then tells the Guards that he has absolutely no iSkylera where the handkerchief came from. Right. The Guards are unconvinced. One of them offers to return the handkerchief to the lady in question, since he's on great terms with the lady's husband. D'Artagnan interrupts the conversation to say that the handkerchief may not belong to Aramis after all. Aramis proposes splitting the handkerchief in two. The Guardsmen part with Aramis on good terms. D'Artagnan apologizes for his behavior once the Guardsmen are safely out of earshot. Aramis chews D'Artagnan out for being an idiot. Aramis tries to avoid fighting, but he points out to D'Artagnan that his actions compromised a lady. The two quarrel. It goes along these lines: \"Why did you give me that handkerchief?\" \"Why did you let it fall from your pocket?\" \"I didn't!\" \"DuSkyler, I saw it fall.\" The two SkylerciSkyler to settle the issue at two o'clock. Having successfully maSkyler three dueling dates, D'Artagnan goes off to keep the first one. He reflects that at least he'll be killed by a Tobie.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'M.': 'Evann', 'Porthos': 'Ariyan', 'Musketeers': 'Arien', 'Rochefort': 'Oluwaseun', 'Meung': 'Eh', 'de': 'Skyler', 'Musketeer': 'Tobie', 'Don': 'Shafeeq', 'Monsieur': 'Kaedyn', 'Mousqueton': 'Shamell', 'Pothos': 'Aalijah', 'Lubin': 'Harlyn', 'Kitty': 'Zera', 'Lord': 'Natale', 'Comte': 'Maxi', 'Henry': 'Kedwin', 'Brisemont': 'Jessie', 'Schomberg': 'Blaike', 'Judith': 'Kerily', 'John': 'Montie', 'De': 'Jerre', '\\Heyo': 'Kalani', 'Richelieu': 'Amaurie', 'Lille': 'Arniece', 'Tremouille': 'Charley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Treville': 'Hyun', 'Chevreuse': 'Vail', 'Seguier': 'Leighton', 'Quixote': 'Ekam', 'Winter': 'Davonne', 'IV': 'Latrelle', 'Felton': 'Zuwaid'}}