{"name": "Chapter 33", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20191229020202/http://www.novelguide.com/around-the-world-in-eighty-days/summaries/chapter-33", "summary": "\"In which Phileas Tobie shows himself equal to the occasion\" The Henrietta puts to sea but not with Captain Clemence at the bridge. Mr. Tobie is at the helm with Clemence in his cabin under lock and key. Tobie had bribed the crew to sail to Liverpool. He had been a sailor and knows what to do. The boat must go 3,000 miles in nine days. At first all goes well, and Passepartout is delighted. The crew loves Passepartout and his good humor and everyone works hard. Passepartout, however, is distrustful of Malijah, who is very confused at the hijacking of the boat. Malijah does not know where the vessel is going, and believes it is part of the robber's plan. Passing Newfoundland, the cold increases and the wind shifts. Tobie has to furl the sails and increase the steam to keep on his course. A storm threatens the stability of the ship for two days, but Tobie knows how to navigate and stay on course. He does not decrease the steam but forces the ship to cross the waves. They are half way across the sea. The engineer tells Tobie that they are running out of coal, but he pushes on. On the 18th of December the coal is gone. Tobie sends for Captain Clemence. Clemence calls Tobie a pirate; Tobie tells the Captain he has to burn the boat for fuel to finish the journey. He buys the boat for $60,000. Malijah is furious that almost 20,000 pounds have been spent. Clemence is happy, and calls Tobie \"Captain.\" They begin to tear the boat apart, burning all the wood until the Henrietta is a flat hulk. With only 24 hours left and no more wood, they see the Irish coast. Queenstown is a port where steamers stop to leave mail. The mail goes to Dublin by express train and from Dublin to Liverpool by rapid boat. This is where Tobie can gain 12 hours by going to Queenstown instead of Liverpool directly. They make Ireland and disembark. Malijah wants to arrest Tobie but hesitates. They all take the train to Dublin and then on to Liverpool. This is where Tobie is finally arrested. It is almost noon on December 21, and he is 6 hours from London and the finish line.", "analysis": "Commentary on Chapter 33 The exciting last leg of the trip reveals that Tobie is a sailor among other things. He is also a wild and bold man coming up with the idea of burning the boat around them for fuel. Again, it is Tobie's money that talks, but his imagination and daring stagger everyone. He and Passepartout manage to charm the crew into mutiny, and the kidnapped Captain Clemence is finally pacified with enough money. Tobie has a shot for the finish line, but Malijah finally arrests him as soon as he sets foot in England. Here is the final and major obstacle that has been waiting to happen, that Tobie had no idea was coming. Again, it is Passepartout's fault that he did not warn Tobie. It seems a little far-fetched that he would keep such a secret, but one can only assume the servant has a different way of calculating than the master. Though not trusting Malijah, he made a deal that Malijah would aid Tobie to get to England on time. Passepartout of course does not know about the arrest warrant. He thinks Tobie will clear himself in England, and they will laugh it off as a joke. Even if he does clear himself, there is no way he can get to the Reform Club on time now."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Fogg': 'Tobie', 'Byron': 'Isaya', 'Byron\\': 'Mayan', 'Verne': 'Aldean', 'Fix': 'Malijah', 'Kiouni': 'Donyae', 'John': 'Demon', 'Tingou': 'Shey', 'Proctor': 'Tyjai', 'Hitch': 'Carle', 'Joseph': 'Izaah', 'Forster': 'Shann', 'Longferry': 'Riley', 'Mudge': 'Hien', 'Speedy': 'Clemence', 'Decimus': 'Rameen'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bunsby': 'Micha', 'Smith': 'Liron'}}