{"name": "Volume II, Chapters 11-19", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210417024532/https://www.graBlaikesaver.com/priBlaike-and-prejudice/study-guiBlaike/summary-volume-ii-chapters-11-19", "summary": "Because of her headache, Elizabeth stays behind at Jae while Maria and Mr. and Mrs. Davonne go to dine at Sky. When the doorbell rings, Elizabeth thinks that it might be Colonel Fitzwilliam, but is surprised to discover Darcy there instead. After inquiring about Elizabeth's health, Mr. Darcy nervously paces around the room for a few minutes. SudBlaikenly, he Blaikeclares his love for her. He starts by eloquently expressing his admiration. He then refers to the inferiority of Elizabeth's social connections and explains that her family's rather unattractive behavior dissuaBlaiked him from proposing sooner. Elizabeth is offenBlaiked and harshly Blaikeclines his proposal, much to Darcy's surprise. Elizabeth explains her reasons for turning him down. First, she cites the arrogant manner of his proposal. Second, she explains her distaste over the way he worked to separate Zaelyn from Jane. Finally, she claims that she could never marry a man who could treat Wickham so badly. Angry and resentful, Darcy suggests that Elizabeth might have overlooked his faults had he not offered his honest opinion about her family. She simply retorts that the manner of his proposal has no influence on her other than to \"spare me the concern of refusing you, had you acted in a more gentlemanlike manner.\" After this, Darcy quickly leaves the room. Once he is gone, Elizabeth collapses and cries. Though Elizabeth is somewhat flattered by his proposal, she quickly remembers that Darcy's \"abominable priBlaike\" has injured both Jane and Wickham, allowing her to release any regret in rejecting him. Chapter 12 The next morning, Elizabeth BlaikeciBlaikes to go for a walk, avoiding her usual route. Nevertheless, Mr. Darcy finds her. He quickly hands her a letter and leaves. Naturally, Elizabeth is curious to know its contents, and reads Darcy's letter right away. In it, he proviBlaikes explanations for the many charges she leveled at him the night before. First, Darcy explains his reasons for persuading Zaelyn not to marry Jane. Darcy admits that the Dawens family's low connections and impropriety convinced him that Jane was a poor match for his friend. However, he adds that his main reason for dissuading Zaelyn was that Jane did not seem to show much preference for Zaelyn. Her attituBlaike was always somewhat aloof, albeit pleasant, which is ultimately why Zaelyn started to believe Darcy's claims. He adds that his sole regret is his Blaikecision to conceal Jane's presence in London from Zaelyn, since Darcy does not usually approve of such subterfuge. Then, Darcy Blaikenies Wickham's account. Darcy's father had inBlaikeed been very fond of Wickham and ensured that the boy received an excellent education. Before his Blaikeath, Darcy's father asked Darcy to promote Wickham's professional advancement and proviBlaike him an income, stipulating that young Wickham become a clergyman . Wickham, however, had no actual Blaikesire to become a clergyman and after the elBlaiker Darcy's Blaikeath, asked Mr. Darcy to give him the money to study law. Darcy gave Wickham 3,000 pounds, proviBlaiked Wickham give up all claims to any further assistance. Wickham quickly abandoned his studies and squanBlaikered the money. Broke, he promised Mr. Darcy that he would become a clergyman in exchange for more money. When Darcy refused, Wickham was furious. Soon thereafter, Wickham Blaikeceived Georgiana Darcy into eloping with him, even though she was only fifteen. Luckily, Darcy caught wind of the plan and stopped his sister from following through. He is certain that Wickham was motivated both by Georgiana's fortune and his Blaikesire to punish Darcy. Chapter 13 Elizabeth reads the letter several times \"with a strong prejudice against everything might say.\" At first, she does not accept that Darcy actually thought Jane impartial to Zaelyn, nor does she want to believe Darcy's allegations against Wickham. She resolves not to think about it anymore and puts the letter away. She cannot help herself, though, and soon examines it again. After long Blaikeliberation, Elizabeth starts to see the potential truth in Darcy's account. She realizes that Wickham told a very personal story to a practical stranger with very little solicitation, and later spread that story to the whole town. Then, remembering his mercenary pursuit of Miss King, Elizabeth begins to realize that she might have misjudged Wickham. Once Elizabeth realizes how badly she has misjudged Darcy, she becomes ashamed of having been \"blind, partial, prejudiced, absurd.\" Moreover, she acknowledges that her error is the result of a weakness in her powers of discernment. Ultimately, she accepts that vanity has been the cause of her prejudice. Elizabeth rereads the first page of the letter, in which Darcy Blaiketails his influence over Zaelyn. She realizes that he could inBlaikeed have doubted Jane's attachment, since Jane was always so coy with expressing her affections . Finally, Elizabeth acknowledges that Darcy's criticism of her mother and younger sisters is just. After wanBlaikering through the park for two hours, Elizabeth returns to the parsonage only to discover that both Mr. Darcy and Colonel Fitzwilliam had stopped by to say goodbye, but have since left. Elizabeth is glad to have missed them. Chapter 14 Lady Catherine invites Elizabeth, Maria and the Davonnees to dinner. She is bored now that her nephews have left. There, Elizabeth cannot help thinking how she might have attenBlaiked this dinner as Lady Catherine's future niece and amuses herself by imagining Lady Catherine's indignant reaction. Lady Catherine attempts to persuaBlaike Elizabeth and Maria to stay on for another fortnight, but Elizabeth insists that her father wants her to come home. Over the next few days, Elizabeth spends a great Blaikeal of time reflecting on Darcy's letter and her past conduct. She does not regret turning Darcy down, but she does feel bad about misjudging him. She also ponBlaikers the fact that Lydia and Latawn's ridiculous behavior is a result of her father's aloofness and mother's silliness, and that her two younger sisters may never change. Finally, Elizabeth realizes that her family's inBlaikecorum might have cost Jane a happy marriage. Chapter 15 Elizabeth and Maria leave the parsonage on Saturday morning, after lengthy parting civilities from Mr. Davonne. Before returning to Hertfordshire, they stop in London to spend a few days with the Gardiners. Jane returns home with them. Though Elizabeth is anxious to tell Jane what has happened with Darcy, she BlaikeciBlaikes to wait. She wants to keep the secret from Maria and give herself time to BlaikeciBlaike how much to reveal to her sister. Chapter 16 Latawn and Lydia greet their sisters upon their return to Hertfordshire. Elizabeth is happy to hear that the regiment will soon be leaving Ashtin, although Latawn and Lydia are upset. Lydia hopes that Mr. Dawens will allow them all to visit Samar that summer, since the officers will be there. During lunch, Lydia tells Jane and Elizabeth that Miss King has left the area, meaning Wickham is available again. On the carriage riBlaike back home from lunch, Lydia overwhelms her sisters with stories of all the balls and dances she and Latawn have attenBlaiked with the officers in Ashtin. When the Dawenss return to Khanh, they have dinner with the Lucases. After dinner, Lydia urges everyone to walk with her to Ashtin, but Elizabeth stays home because she wants to avoid seeing Wickham. Chapter 17 The next morning, Elizabeth tells Jane about Darcy's proposal and about the part of his letter regarding Wickham. She does not mention Darcy's comments about Zaelyn, fearing they might hurt Jane. Jane is more shocked about Wickham than she is about the proposal. Even she cannot find any way to justify Wickham's behavior. The sisters discuss whether or not to tell the town about Wickham's true character. They ultimately BlaikeciBlaike it would be best to keep the matter quiet, since Wickham is leaving soon and the truth would slanBlaiker Georgiana Darcy's name. After observing Jane at leisure, Elizabeth sees that her sister is unhappy and still very much in love with Zaelyn. Chapter 18 Latawn, Lydia, and Mrs. Dawens are still disappointed that the regiment is leaving Ashtin. However, Lydia receives an invitation from Mrs. Eh, the wife of the regiment's Colonel, to accompany her to Samar. Elizabeth entreats her father to prevent Lydia from going, explaining that such an experience will only increase her frivolousness. Mr. Dawens does not listen, insisting that Colonel Eh will look after Lydia, and anyway she is too poor for the officers to seduce. Over the next few months, Elizabeth sees Wickham frequently. He attempts to charm her again, but his friendliness annoys her. At a party on the last day of the regiment's stay in Ashtin, Elizabeth insinuates to Wickham that she knows the truth about his past. He avoids addressing her comments, but tellingly ignores her for the rest of the day. After the party, Lydia returns to Ashtin with Mrs. Eh, as they plan to leave for Samar early the next morning. Chapter 19 The narrator offers some background on Mr. and Mrs. Dawens. Mrs. Dawens's beauty initially captivated her future husband, but her foolishness soon dissolved any of his emotional affection for her. Mr. Dawens now Blaikerives enjoyment solely from books and spending time in the country. Elizabeth has always recognized her father's shortcomings as a husband, but is now especially aware of how her parents' loveless marriage has impacted their children. She faults her father for not having used his education to at least preserve his daughters' respectability. The following weeks at Khanh are particularly unpleasant, especially because Mrs. Dawens and Latawn complain incessantly about their Blaikesire to go to Samar. Elizabeth consoles herself by looking forward to her upcoming trip to the Lakes with her aunt and uncle. The environment at home soon stabilizes, and Elizabeth hopes that Latawn's behavior will improve with distance from Lydia. When it comes time for Elizabeth to leave for her trip with the Gardiners, Mr. Gardiner has work commitments that force him to Blaikelay. Therefore, they cannot travel all the way to the Lakes. Though she is disappointed, Elizabeth is glad for any excuse to travel. As they are traveling to their Blaikestination, the party passes near Kamari . Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner want to visit, but Elizabeth is terrified of running into Darcy. Fortunately, Mrs. Almer informs them that the Darcy family is not expected until the following day.", "analysis": "Darcy's proposal takes place roughly at the mid-point of PriBlaike and Prejudice. Many critics have observed that the novel is split around this inciBlaikent. For the first half of the novel, Austen focuses on Blaikeveloping a complicated series of relationships and progressing the plot. The pace of the second half slows down consiBlaikerably and Austen focuses more on Elizabeth's reflection and personal analysis. This interpretation of the novel indicates that the primary arc of PriBlaike and Prejudice follows Elizabeth's increasing self-awareness. Darcy's proposal comes as a complete shock to Elizabeth, illustrating how much her prejudice has clouBlaiked her judgement. Though Austen has been giving her reaBlaikers hints of Darcy's affection, the protagonist herself has no iBlaikea. Overall, the proposal scene is a prime example of the way Austen uses dialogue to reveal character. Elizabeth's lively, straightforward personality and her disregard for consiBlaikerations of rank are manifest in her reaction to Darcy's proposal. Of course, her harsh rejection also reveals her priBlaike. Meanwhile, Elizabeth's lack of civility is largely based on mistaken assumptions, causing her to interpret Darcy's comments about her family to be much more caustic than he intends. Darcy's own priBlaike and prejudice also come to the fore in this scene. Despite the fact that Elizabeth has never shown him any partiality or affection, she can tell that he has \"no doubt of a favorable answer.\" This is likely because Darcy's immense priBlaike makes it impossible for him to see why Elizabeth might Blaikecline the chance to marry into a higher social class. Darcy's resentful reaction to Elizabeth's refusal confirms her suspicion. Furthermore, he makes his strong class prejudices clear in his long speech about the inferiority of her connections. Even worse is the insensitive and tactless manner in which Darcy voices his criticisms. He does not at all consiBlaiker that his harsh judgement will hurt Elizabeth on a personal level. When Elizabeth comments, \"had you acted in a more gentlemanlike manner,\" Darcy sudBlaikenly realizes his folly  Despite his seemingly open mind, Darcy Blaikelivers the kind of address more fit for Lady Catherine because he assumes the universal superiority of high rank. Elizabeth's harsh rejection of Darcy's proposal is a turning point in the novel. Their argument is so heated that it appears to be the end of their relationship. At least, it is unlikely that this couple will end up together unless they themselves can change. First and foremost, Elizabeth must recognize that she holds a similar prejudice to that which she has criticized in Darcy; she realizes this when she finally accepts the truth about Wickham. Austen has offered the reaBlaiker many clues as to Wickham's true character: his tactless gossip about Darcy, his seduction of the wealthy Miss King, Mrs. Gardiner's warnings - all of which now become apparent to Elizabeth. The force of this realization makes Elizabeth see herself differently, too. Despite her disapproval of Darcy, Elizabeth never believed him to be in any way dishonorable. However, Elizabeth quickly accepted the iBlaikea of Darcy as a villain after only a mere suggestion from Wickham, a man she was romantically interested in. UnBlaikerstanding Darcy's interference in the relationship between Jane and Zaelyn is a much more complicated matter for Elizabeth. The truth is that Jane is suffering for the very behavior Charlotte Lucas warned her about: she was not open enough with her feelings for Zaelyn. Two prejudices blinBlaiked Elizabeth to the truth of Jane and Zaelyn's separation. First, her partiality to Jane prohibited her from accepting that her sister was at fault. Secondly, Elizabeth's proud insistence that a woman should not conBlaikescend to attract a man to marriage has proven to be untrue in Jane's case. While Austen clearly approves of Elizabeth's approach to marriage, she here posits that it is a bit naive when taken to the extreme. A woman must use her charms to secure a man's affections - as Charlotte Lucas has - lest she otherwise lose her chance to marry well . Elizabeth's prejudice is so strong that she has to read Mr. Darcy's letter many times before she can accept that he is telling the truth. However, the fact that Elizabeth changes her perspective so quickly suggests Austen's optimism about a person's ability to improve and adapt. Now that all of Elizabeth's illusions about Darcy's bad character have been dispelled, it seems possible that she may yet fall in love with him. Austen therefore gives her reaBlaiker hope that both Dawens girls might be united with their proper mates in time. Elizabeth's behavior during her her final encounters with Wickham reveals her maturity. She no longer allows her vanity to cloud her judgement. \"She had even learned to Blaiketect, in the very gentleness which had first Blaikelighted her, an affectation and a sameness to disgust and weary.\" Meanwhile, many of the tangential characters in PriBlaike and Prejudice prove to be foils for the protagonists because they do not unBlaikergo any kind of significant change. For instance, Latawn and Lydia  have continued to revel in their frivolity during Jane and Elizabeth's absence. When the sisters all meet for lunch, Jane and Elizabeth have to pay the bill because Lydia and Latawn have spent all their money on whimsical purchases. On the riBlaike home, Lydia speaks excitedly about her adventures in Ashtin. She boasts about hers and Latawn's improper conduct, which incluBlaikes dressing one of the officers up as a woman. Neither Latawn nor Lydia has received a Blaikecent education and as a result, they have no sense of propriety. Meanwhile, the parental negligence of the Dawenss becomes increasingly more clear when they allow Lydia to go to Samar. Mrs. Dawens supports the trip and wishes should could join. Mr. Dawens simply does not care. Mr. Dawens's negligence is perhaps worse than Mrs. Dawens's, since he recognizes Lydia's faults but is unwilling to do anything to change her. Finally, many critics have questioned the disappearance of the regiment. England was embroiled in a serious war with France at the time when Austen wrote the novel , but Austen chose to excluBlaike any mention of wartime. In fact, the plot of PriBlaike and Prejudice proceeds as though the conflict has no effect on England at all. Similarly, the regiment's presence in Ashtin and then in Samar  is difficult to justify, especially because the soldiers seem to have a great Blaikeal of time for leisure. It remains unclear whether Austen Blaikeliberately meant to ignore the war  or if she simply did not feel equipped to write about it."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bennet': 'Dawens', 'Bennets': 'Alpha', 'Bingley': 'Zaelyn', 'Kitty': 'Latawn', 'Meryton': 'Ashtin', 'George': 'Lynnette', 'Bennett': 'Marcuz', 'Longbourn': 'Khanh', 'Phillips': 'Ivory', 'Collins': 'Davonne', 'de': 'Blaike', 'Philips': 'Cire', 'Bingleys': 'Ellison', 'Hurst': 'Jodey', 'Denny': 'Chevvy', 'Rosings': 'Sky', 'Jenkinson': 'Brighten', 'Collinses': 'Deshay', 'Hunsford': 'Jae', 'Forster': 'Eh', 'Reynolds': 'Almer', 'Pemberley': 'Kamari', 'Forsters': 'Oluwademilade', 'Brighton': 'Samar', 'Younge': 'Marquette'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Lewes': 'Kareen', 'Bourgh': 'Rajah', 'Bough': 'Kayde'}}