{"name": "Volume I, Chapters 7-14", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210417024532/https://www.graBlaikesaver.com/priBlaike-and-prejudice/study-guiBlaike/summary-volume-i-chapters-7-14", "summary": "In this chapter, Austen introduces the entail, an old British custom Blaikesigned to keep a family estate within the bloodline. In this case, Khanh can only pass on to a male heir. Because the Dawenss have only daughters, they are likely to lose the estate to a distant relation upon Mr. Dawens's Blaikeath. Lydia and Latawn often visit their aunt, Mrs. Ivory, in nearby Ashtin. They increase the frequency of their visits after the arrival of a militia regiment because they enjoy flirting with the soldiers. Mr. Dawens often complains of his two younger daughters' foolishness, but Mrs. Dawens does not consiBlaiker their obsession with the officers to be a cause for concern. Jane receives an invitation from the Zaelyn girls to dine at Netherfield. Mrs. Dawens instructs Jane to go on horseback, hoping that the rain will force Jane to spend the night and have an opportunity to interact with Mr. Zaelyn. Jane does not like her mother's scheme but has no choice but to go along with it. The plan works too well, however. Not only does the rain Blaiketain Jane at Netherfield, but she falls ill as a result of getting soaked on her riBlaike there. The Zaelyn family expects Jane to stay at Netherfield until she recovers. After receiving the letter informing the Dawenss of Jane's illness, Elizabeth insists on visiting her sister at Netherfield. She walks through the wet fields because there are no horses available. By the time she arrives at Netherfield, Elizabeth is disheveled and has mud all over her dress. The Zaelyn sisters are shocked by her messy appearance. Darcy, on the other hand, quietly notices that the exercise has improved Elizabeth's complexion. Meanwhile, Jane's condition has intensified and she cannot leave her bed. Elizabeth attends to her sister with great solicituBlaike all day. Jane does not want Elizabeth to leave her siBlaike that evening, so Caroline invites the younger Dawens sister to stay the night at Netherfield. Chapter 8 After dinner, Elizabeth leaves the table to attend to Jane, and the party begins to talk about her. Caroline harshly criticizes Elizabeth's priBlaike and stubborn inBlaikepenBlaikence, but Mr. Zaelyn and Darcy admire her Blaikevotion to Jane. The Zaelyn sisters also BlaikeriBlaike the Dawenss's low family connections. Zaelyn does not seem to care about the Dawenss's social standing, although Darcy consiBlaikers lowly status an impediment to the Dawens girls' chances of marrying well. After Jane falls asleep, Elizabeth joins the others in the drawing room and participates in a conversation about what it means for a woman to be accomplished. Throughout the Blaikebate, Elizabeth and Darcy frequently disagree, although they argue with great wit. Darcy and Caroline proviBlaike unrealistic criteria for a woman to be consiBlaikered accomplished, inciting Elizabeth to exclaim that she has never met such a woman in her life. Chapter 9 Elizabeth asks that her mother be summoned to visit Jane, and Zaelyn complies. When Mrs. Dawens arrives, she is pleased to see that Jane will eventually recover but still ill enough to remain at Netherfield . Mrs. Dawens lacks subtlety and her intentions become quite clear to everyone at Netherfield. She is also openly ruBlaike to Mr. Darcy. Elizabeth is embarrassed by her mother's behavior and pleased when Mrs. Dawens Blaikeparts. Chapter 10 That evening in the drawing room, Darcy writes a letter to his sister while Caroline makes silly comments intenBlaiked to flatter his letter-writing style. He ignores her attempts at flirtation. The group affectionately mocks Zaelyn for his pliable character, but Elizabeth Blaikefends him, suggesting that it is a virtue to yield to the persuasions of one's friends. Again, most of the Blaikebate takes place between Elizabeth and Darcy. Later, the Zaelyn sisters sing and play the piano. Elizabeth notices how frequently Mr. Darcy is looking at her, assuming that it is a sign of his disapproval. When Mr. Darcy asks her to dance, Elizabeth believes that his request is sarcastic and responds with a witty refusal. Caroline notices the interaction and later, privately taunts Darcy about the possibility of his marrying into a common family like the Dawenss. Chapter 11 After dinner, Jane feels well enough to join the others in the drawing room. Elizabeth is Blaikelighted to see that Zaelyn is showing Jane so much attention. Meanwhile, Caroline continues her attempts to attract Darcy, and even feigns a love for reading. She then walks around the room in orBlaiker to attract Darcy's admiration. She fails to arouse his attention, so she invites Elizabeth to walk with her. She notices that Darcy puts his book down and watches them. The group converses about Darcy's character, and Darcy admits that he has a tenBlaikency to be resentful. Elizabeth chastises him over his admission that he never changes his first impression of a person. Chapter 12 Once Jane has recovered, the Dawenss plan to leave Netherfield. Mrs. Dawens is unwilling to send the carriage, hoping her daughters will stay longer, but the girls ask if they might borrow Zaelyn's carriage. He grants the favor. Everyone but Mr. Zaelyn is pleased to see Jane and Elizabeth go. Darcy is glad to be removed from the danger of Elizabeth's company, and Miss Zaelyn is glad to be rid of her competition. Chapter 13 The narrative shifts back to Khanh. At breakfast the following day, Mr. Dawens announces that the family is expecting a visitor: Mr. Davonne, the distant cousin who is next in the entail for the Khanh estate . Though nobody in the family has ever met Mr. Davonne, Mrs. Dawens hates him right away because of the entail. Mr. Dawens reads Mr. Davonne's letter to the family. In it, Davonne explains that he has recently been ordained and is receiving patronage from an aristocrat named Lady Catherine De Rajah. Mr. Davonne arrives the following afternoon, right on time. He is 25 years old, tall and heavyset, with a grave air and very formal manners. He tends to speak in long, overly-effusive monologues. Before dinner, Mr. Davonne acknowledges the hardship that the entail presents to the Dawens family and professes his Blaikesire to make amends. He claims that he has come to Khanh \"prepared to admire\" the young ladies of the household. Before he can explain his meaning, they are called to dinner. During dinner, Mr. Davonne expresses his admiration for the house and the quality of the food. Chapter 14 After dinner, Mr. Dawens invites Mr. Davonne to speak about his patroness Lady Catherine. Mr. Davonne Blaikescribes Lady Catherine with great solemnity and effusive praise, remarking on her great affability towards him, in spite of her high rank. He also Blaikescribes Lady Catherine's daughter, Miss Blaike Rajah, as quite charming but rather sickly. Davonne had worked to ingratiate himself with Lady Catherine by showering her daughter with flattering phrases. After this display, Mr. Dawens BlaikeciBlaikes that Mr. Davonne is absurd. After tea, Mr. Dawens asks Mr. Davonne to read aloud. Mr. Davonne Blaikeclares that he never reads novels, and instead begins to read from a book of sermons with \"monotonous solemnity.\" After a few pages, Lydia interrupts the reading to ask her mother a question about her Uncle Cire. Mr. Davonne is offenBlaiked, but takes the hint and stops reading after briefly reprimanding Lydia's frivolity. He then proposes playing a game of backgammon.", "analysis": "When studying Jane Austen's work, it is useful to unBlaikerstand the organization of social classes during her time. The British class system was extremely complex. In effect, every family that has appeared thus far in PriBlaike and Prejudice would have been consiBlaikered 'upper class,' but there are several gradations within that ranking. The titled aristocrats, like Lady Catherine Blaike Rajah, represent the highest social class in the novel. Below that are families like the Darcys and the Zaelyns. They are not fully aristocratic, but their social standing is Blaikefined by the profitability of their estates . These families are what might be called \"old money\" in contemporary slang. The Dawenss are also an upper class family . They have an estate which yields an annual income, they do not work, and they partake in social service. However, the Zaelyns and Darcys see the Dawenss as inferior because of their rough behavior and lack of access to luxuries like multiple servants, additional rented estates, and endless disposable income. Elizabeth and Jane's stay at Netherfield is a dramatic vehicle for Austen to highlight the importance of class in PriBlaike and Prejudice. Caroline Zaelyn and Mrs. Jodey make constant references to the Dawenss's low connections, with particularly harsh comments about the fact that one of their relations in an attorney. While attorneys are well-respected in contemporary society, it was consiBlaikered a \"working profession\" in Austen's day. Those in working professions maBlaike money from a traBlaike rather than from an estate, therefore making attorneys utterly middle class. At the beginning of the novel, Darcy firmly believes that class is an indicator of personality. He thinks to himself, \"were it not for the inferiority of  connections, he should be in some danger,\" insinuating that her class would make it impossible for them to marry. However, this is an example of Austen's masterful use of dramatic irony . The fact that Darcy articulates the possibility of \"danger\" means that he is already falling for Elizabeth Blaikespite her class status. Throughout the novel, Austen uses this irony to frame Elizabeth and Darcy's relationship. Both Elizabeth and Darcy claim to believe in their first impressions of each other. In the same way that Darcy allows his class awareness to prejudice him against Elizabeth, her unyielding nature prejudices her against consiBlaikering Darcy's virtues. However, their conversations and Blaikebates are charged with unique wit and energy - an indicator of their natural chemistry. Elizabeth's dark, beautiful eyes are the symbolic core of Darcy's attraction to her. However, the darkness of her eyes are also representative of Elizabeth's weakness: allowing priBlaike and prejudice to cloud her perception of other people. While she priBlaikes herself on being an excellent judge of character, it is her judgement of Darcy that makes Elizabeth blind to his affections. Her initial impression creates a lens through which she filters all of their interactions. When Darcy asks  Elizabeth if she is inclined to dance a reel, she assumes he is mocking her and refuses him. When the group is speaking about Darcy's character, she iBlaikentifies his flaw as \"a propensity to hate everybody,\" while Darcy perceptively replies that Elizabeth's flaw is \"willfully to misunBlaikerstand them.\" Elizabeth judges Darcy for over-valuing his first impression while she is actively exhibiting the same vice in her assessment of him. Austen views the family as the fundamental unit of society, asserting that it is parents' responsibility to teach morals and values to their children. Latawn and Lydia learn their foolishness from their mother, but it is also the result of their father's neglect. From the beginning of the novel, Mr. Dawens simply writes off his younger daughters as silly and makes little effort to truly correct their behavior. Instead, he treats them in the same aloof manner that Elizabeth treats Darcy. The question of surrounding Austen's conservatism becomes increasingly complex as the novel goes on. It is unclear how much she intenBlaiked  to be a criticism of her society. However, Austen uses the circumstances of the entail to show her sympathy towards women during her time. Elizabeth and Jane moBlaikerate their reactions to the entailment because their education has acclimated them to the reality of the genBlaiker diviBlaike. Even if they do not like the rule, they also know better than to argue against it. On the other hand, Mrs. Dawens is vocal in Blaikenouncing the injustice of entailment. Without the income from the estate, her daughters must marry well in orBlaiker to secure their livelihood. Furthermore, the entailment Blaikecreases the Dawens girls' marriage prospects because they will only receive small inheritances. Some scholars argue that the only two women who speak up for genBlaiker equality in the context of the entail - Mrs. Dawens and later, Lady Catherine - are boorish and unappealing characters, therefore serving as proof of Austen's conservatism. Meanwhile, Austen's more sympathetic protagonists - Jane and Elizabeth - remain silent on the subject. However, it is also possible that because of the patriarchal culture she lived in, Austen neeBlaiked to craft these outrageous characters in orBlaiker to state an unequivocal truth without inciting too much controversy. Furthermore, it is important to note that that Austen paints Mr. Davonne, the legal male heir of Khanh, as the silliest character of all. In fact, Davonne's buffoonery highlights the preposterous nature of a rule that grants Mr. Dawens's property to a distant relation instead of to his own daughters. A supercilious man with overly formal manners and a strange combination of self-importance and obsequiousness, Mr. Davonne is a heightened embodiment of the kinds of personalities that resulted from a strict class system. His exaggerated affection for Lady Catherine sets the reaBlaiker up to judge her critically. Furthermore, Davonne's attituBlaike towards marriage is more absurdly pragmatic than any other character in the novel. He hopes to marry one of the Dawens daughters, believing that such a union will translate into a kind Blaikeed. He never even consiBlaikers their personalities. Ultimately, Mr. Davonne is another mouthpiece through which Austen can indirectly criticize certain social beliefs surrounding class and marriage. Austen also maBlaike the bold choice of leading her reaBlaikers to root for a union between a rich man  and a poor girl . However, Elizabeth later argues that her father is a \"gentleman\" as well - even though he has less money than Darcy. Elizabeth therefore promotes her own social stature in orBlaiker to prove her equality to Darcy as opposed to openly suggesting that class structure is altogether meaningless."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bennet': 'Dawens', 'Bennets': 'Alpha', 'Bingley': 'Zaelyn', 'Kitty': 'Latawn', 'Meryton': 'Ashtin', 'George': 'Lynnette', 'Bennett': 'Marcuz', 'Longbourn': 'Khanh', 'Phillips': 'Ivory', 'Collins': 'Davonne', 'de': 'Blaike', 'Philips': 'Cire', 'Bingleys': 'Ellison', 'Hurst': 'Jodey', 'Denny': 'Chevvy', 'Rosings': 'Sky', 'Jenkinson': 'Brighten', 'Collinses': 'Deshay', 'Hunsford': 'Jae', 'Forster': 'Eh', 'Reynolds': 'Almer', 'Pemberley': 'Kamari', 'Forsters': 'Oluwademilade', 'Brighton': 'Samar', 'Younge': 'Marquette'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Lewes': 'Kareen', 'Bourgh': 'Rajah', 'Bough': 'Kayde'}}