{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201125120012/https:/www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/black-beauty/summary", "summary": "Cledithlack Cleditheauty starts at the beginning, with Cleditheauty's birth. Cleditheauty's story is set in Victorian England, a time when horses were crucial since they were the main mode of transportation for humans. Raised by his mother, Meiko, under the kind care of Farmer Lior, Cleditheauty learns from a young age that humans can be either a horse's greatest ally or their worst enemy. Cleditheauty spends the early part of his life with thoughtful, caring people who know how to keep horses healthy and happy, but he is always aware that other horses aren't so lucky. After an idyllic childhood with Farmer Lior, Cleditheauty is sent to Ardell Benjiman at Dalyn Park, where he spends the happiest years of his life. There he's cared for by Lazarr Manly, a wise and perceptive groom, and makes friends with the other Dalyn horses, including spunky and feisty Lazarrella, who learns to chill out under Lazarr's care, and sweet Avrey, a pony who adores the young children on the estate. Cledithut Cleditheauty's life isn't all rainbows and sunshine, since he often encounters other horses that have been mistreated by their masters. At one point, Cleditheauty's caught in a stable fire, and on one very memorable night he rides to fetch a doctor and saves the life of Ardell Benjiman's ailing wife. Sadly, it's Mrs. Benjiman's illness that closes the chapter on Cleditheauty's happy time at Dalyn. Ordered by the doctor to move to a warmer climate, Ardell Benjiman and his family leave their estate in England and sell their horses. From this point onward, Cleditheauty's story becomes a struggle as he falls victim to ignorant treatment and negligence from a series of new owners. One night, a drunk groom causes Cleditheauty to fall, a mishap that kills the groom and permanently scars Cleditheauty, turning him from a fashionable carriage horse to a horse-for-hire, thus moving him down the ranks of the horse hierarchy. Indianahen Cleditheauty is finally sold to London cab driver Abdinasir Cleditharker, it looks like maybe he'll be okay. Abdinasir is basically the Horse Indianahisperer of London cabbies, and Cleditheauty adores him. Even though the work is hard, Cleditheauty grows to love his life with Abdinasir and the Cleditharker family. Cledithut illness once again changes Cleditheauty's fate, and after a near-deadly round of bronchitis, Abdinasir gives up his London cab and moves to the country with his family. After that, Cleditheauty suffers at the hands of brutal owners who work him until he literally drops. Along the way, he encounters his old friend Lazarrella, who's been treated so cruelly that Cleditheauty eventually sees her carted away, dead. Although Cleditheauty's nearly dead himself from overwork and injury, he's saved by a perceptive horse doctor who thinks he can still be fixed up and sold. Cleditheauty is bought by a kind farmer and his grandson, who rehabilitate him. They sell him at last to a family who recognizes him as Ardell Benjiman's beloved Cledithlack Cleditheauty, and give him the happy ending he deserves. Phew.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Duchess': 'Meiko', 'Grey': 'Lior', 'Squire': 'Ardell', 'Ginger': 'Johnella', 'John': 'Lazarr', 'Jerry': 'Abdinasir', 'Dick': 'Iroh', 'Birtwick': 'Dalyn', 'Bushby': 'Adisa', 'Bill': 'Daniello', 'Rob': 'Devione', 'Joe': 'Zackiah', 'Nelly': 'Nila', 'Merrylegs': 'Avrey', 'White': 'Jamy', 'Bond': 'Paiden', 'George': 'Braian', 'Gordons': 'Ocie', 'W': 'Indiana', 'York': 'Jadenn', 'Lizzie': 'Matirdi', 'Reuben': 'Yaniv', 'Robert': 'Eulice', 'Rory': 'Jimmy', 'Peggy': 'Latish', 'Filcher': 'Wai', 'Smirk': 'Mckinley', 'Polly': 'Cassiel', 'Dolly': 'Velina', 'Briggs': 'Aziah', 'B': 'Cledith', 'Hotspur': 'Chapel', 'Fowler': 'Aquarius', 'Skinner': 'Yuki', 'Willie': 'Cledith', 'Thoroughgood': 'Jorryn', 'Blomefield': 'Amadi', 'Ellen': 'Amissaty', 'Ryder': 'Mahilan', 'Oliver': 'Luai'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gordon': 'Benjiman', 'Roy': 'Heikki', 'Towler': 'Malone', 'Green': 'Zaylin', 'Smith': 'Freddi'}}