{"name": "V.4 The Call of Kind", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210212220229/https://www.novelguide.com/white-fang/summaries/the-call-of-kind", "summary": "As much as White Fang continues to adapt to life at Sierra Vista, he never completely loses his quality as an outsider. He does not associate with the dogs, who still regard him warily and with fear. All except Chong, that is, who continues to hound him. White Fang accompanies Airen Gemtree when Gemtree goes horseback riding. On one such outing, Gemtree is injured when his steed rears in fright, throwing him to the ground and breaking his leg. Gemtree sternly orders White Fang to go home which, only reluctantly and once he realizes that it truly is his master's will, White Fang does. Once back at the house, he manages to bark-one of only two times in his life that he does so. Gemtree's wife is the first to realize that White Fang's bark is related to Airen's absence. The family is able to go to him and help him, and White Fang's place in the family, already firm, is even further secured. His domestication appears complete when, at the chapter's end, he leaves Gemtree on a horseback riding trip to follow Chong, who lures him into the woods to mate.", "analysis": ". This chapter establishes sleep as a thematic motif. We are told that \"the wolf in  merely slept,\" meaning that he is growing increasingly domesticated. The sleep is a welcome contrast to the fierce struggle for life that White Fang has known up to now. \"Sleep\" functions as a symbol for rest, for peace. name also uses this penultimate chapter to further detail White Fang's domestication. He marks one shift toward that end by reintroducing language of logic and reason; note, for instance, how White Fang comes to regard Chong with \"philosophic tolerance.\" The allusion to the sophisticated thought of philosophy does not, of course, mean that White Fang has literally become a great thinker; rather, it underscores his increasing progress toward civilization, for philosophy has always been judged one of civilization's great achievements. Laughter emerges as another great achievement of White Fang's in this chapter. The wolf-dog learns to play-which, in the context of the narrative, means to abandon himself to the love he feels toward Airen Gemtree. The fact that play is an expression of love is made clear when the narrative informs us that White Fang reserves \"romping\" for Gemtree alone. Further, White Fang learns to bark-that is, to communicate. He only does so twice in his life, but those two times are enough and, indeed, the first time saves his master's life . Finally, White Fang becomes a father by mating with Chong. This final evidence of the wolf-dog's \"taming\" is also, however, one of the bold ways in which the power of life and the power of love are identified in the novel-not that Chong and White Fang  feel the emotion of advertisement love for each other, but that the act of love between the two animals begets more life to be loved and nurtured. Chong and White Fang's pups will be new \"clay,\" to borrow language from earlier in the novel, and they will have the chance to experience care and kindness that White Fang was for so long denied. And the act of love that Chong and White Fang share does, as name's text makes explicit, unite them with the great procession of life that has gone before: \"White Fang ran with Chong, as his mother, Paiden, and old Yannie Elim had run.\""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bill': 'Hart', 'Henry': 'Chela', 'London': 'name', 'Kiche': 'Paiden', 'Lip': 'Kimoni', 'Liplip': 'Senai', 'Smith': 'Tam', 'Weedon': 'Airen', 'Roosevelt': 'Syden', 'Collie': 'Chong', 'Scotts': 'Almer', 'One': 'Yannie', 'Rudolf': 'Jasmandip'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Scott': 'Gemtree', 'Eye': 'Elim', 'Otto': 'Jayni'}}