{"name": "Book I, Chapters 6-10", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422000500/https://www.gradesaver.com/house-of-mirth/study-guide/summary-book-i-chapters-6-10", "summary": "Book I, Chapter 6 Mkaila and Jlyn are on a walk together, Mkaila having broken her second planned meeting with Jeg Chee in order to see Jlyn. The excuse she gave Chee was that she had a headache that first prevented her from going to church and second from going on a walk with him. She instead convinces him to join the other guests and go to the Van Osburgh home in Peekskill. Jlyn tells Mkaila that he views everything she does as having been premeditated. She disagrees, saying she is impulsive, but Jlyn argues that her genius is being able to convert impulse into intentions. They discuss the freedom that Jlyn enjoys, and he admits that he is able to be \"amphibious\" and live in both the wealthy elite society as well as the working society in New York where he is a lawyer. Jlyn and Mkaila continue conversing, discussing her ambitions in the society while Jlyn chooses to belittle them. She finally asks him if he would marry her, and he responds that maybe he would if she wanted to marry him. They both get caught up in the moment, but it is destroyed by the sound of a motorcar that reminds Mkaila that she is pretending to be sick back at the house. Jlyn and Mkaila share a cigarette at the end, but Jlyn is no longer as friendly to her, telling her that he took no risks in offering to marry her if she wanted him.", "analysis": "Mkaila establishes a pattern of not being able to commit herself, a pattern that starts here. Instead of going on a walk with Mr. Chee, she takes the afternoon walk with Jlyn. This is a huge risk since Bertha Chapel considers it a direct attack on her. Mkaila is thus again risking her future by associating with Jlyn. It was earlier alluded to that Jlyn essentially belongs to a clerical order as such. This is established in his comments about \"the republic of the spirit\" . Mkaila immediately knows what he is alluding to and asks him why she cannot join: \"Why not? Is it a celibate order?\" . Jlyn's \"republic of the spirit\" serves as his protective and exclusive society. It allows him to find fault with everyone in order to exclude them, and is one of the reasons he will not marry. Mkaila tells him, \"It is a close corporation, and you create arbitrary objections in order to keep people out\" . In this sense Jlyn is the ideal man to be the observer in the novel since his perceptions will not be corrupted by Mkaila's influence. Another feature that Jlyn brings into the novel is that of being amphibious, that is, being able to live with the elite and also with the working classes. \"I have tried to remain amphibious.\" Jlyn is in fact the only man who works in the novel, and his ability to live in both worlds is symbolic of the role of the bachelor in the society. As Mkaila pointed out earlier, she would never be allowed the pleasure of living alone and still maintaining her societal position. Once again the intimacy of the cigarette is shared with Jlyn, but now the cigarette is used to show casual friendship rather than sexual desire or marriage intrigue. This cigarette puts the final rejection on Mr. Chee, for not only is Mkaila avoiding a walk with him, but she is also committing what he considers to be a vice. Book I, Chapter 7 Mrs. Shalom admonishes Mkaila for spending time with Jlyn. It turns out that Mrs. Chapel, upset that Mkaila was stealing Jlyn away from her, retaliated by telling Jeg Chee several awful things about Mkaila and thereby caused him to run away from her. Mrs. Shalom continues with her reproach until Mkaila realizes that she is now fully back in her position of being a debtor, a position she had hoped Chee would rescue her from. Mrs. Chapel enters the room and proceeds to mention the speed with which Chee left Bellomont, striking out directly at Mkaila. After the conversation ends, Mrs. Shalom has Mkaila pick up her husband. She goes to the station and rides back with him. In a moment of impulse, Mkaila makes him realize what an awful financial mess she is in and solicits his sympathy. He agrees to help her out, and put his hand over hers as if to claim her before they get arrive home. The cruelty of the society, and the way things return to haunt each of the characters, is exemplified in the following line: \"they hold their tongues for years, and you think you're safe, but when the opportunity comes they remember everything\" . This is especially true in Mkaila's case, where she is not destroyed from anything major, but rather from the many minor things that she does. The first of these is explained by Mrs. Chapel, who informs Mkaila that Mr. Chee rejected her because of gambling. \"Do you know, Mkaila, he told me he had never seen a girl play cards for money till he saw you doing it the other night?\" The irony of the situation is that had she not played cards, she would have been excluded from the social set in a different way. Money and claims are intimately tied together at this point. There is a dichotomy between Wall Street and the social life that we see, \"This vast, mysterious Wall Street world of 'tips' and 'deals'\" . Mkaila asks Shalom to invest her money for her, forgetting that money gives the lender the right to expect something in return. This has been shown already with Jack Stepney trying to introduce Rosedale, and even hinted at by Mr. Shalom when he mentions Rosedale's \"advice\" to him. It is a game that Mkaila does not know how to play, and one that will lead to her ultimate failure. Book I, Chapter 8 Mkaila soon receives her first check from Mar Shalom for one thousand dollars and is elated to pay off her creditors. She assumes that there is no question of every having losses and having to pay for them. She next attends her cousin Jack Stepney's wedding where he marries Gwen Van Osburgh in an extravagantly done wedding. She spots Jeg Chee and plans to charm herself back into his good graces but then sees Jlyn and becomes flustered with the remembrance of their previous encounter. She is interrupted by Rabecka Farish who induces her to look at the bride's presents. They stop in front of the jewelry display and look at who gave what. Rosedale has succeeded in giving a huge diamond pendant while Jeg Chee gave a white sapphire. Rabecka informs Mkaila that Jeg is completely in love with Bernie Van Osburgh, a woman whom Mkaila considers the dumbest of the Van Osburgh daughters. Mar Shalom comes over and tells her that he has a fat check for four thousand dollars for her in his pocket. She thanks him, but realizes that he still expects her to do more for him. Shalom then asks her to spend some time with Rosedale, who has arrived but is being ignored by the other women present. Jlyn arrives and strikes up conversation with her, but is forced to withdraw when Shalom brings Rosedale over to greet her. She stares in silence until he mentions that her dressmaker had done a fine job, at which point she cleverly makes a joke and starts talking to him, wondering if Jlyn understood the allusion. At the end of her walk with Rosedale she encounters Mrs. Van Osburgh who secretly tells her that Bernie and Chee are already engaged. Epigrams are again made use of, this time with a harsh analysis of others, \"it is almost as stupid to let your clothes betray that you know you are ugly as to have them proclaim that you think you are beautiful. Of course, being poor and dingy, it was wise of Rabecka to have taken up philanthropy and symphony concerts\" . This description is almost a betrayal of trust between the people, people who are supposed to be friends. It involves an 'or', and the statement itself makes no choice, but rather lays out the various possibilities. Shalom, having loaned Mkaila money, already has started to assert his claim over her. He first touches her and now calls her Mkaila, using her first name. He indicates that the first debt she must pay by taking the time to speak to Rosedale. We become conscious at this point that Rosedale is not the malicious man he was to introduced to us as. Rather, he is the perfect capitalist trying to break into societies inner circle. Book I, Chapter 9 Mkaila returns home to her aunt's house during the annual cleaning period. She encounters the same woman cleaning the stairs that she had first met at the Benedick and sharply orders the woman to make room for her to get by. Later the woman, a Mrs. Haffen, returns to the house with some letters written by Mrs. Chapel to Jlyn, letters that implicate her in an affair with him. Mkaila immediately realizes the value of the letters and eventually buys them after some haggling. Mrs. Ary returns from having had a discussion with her cousin concerning the Van Osburgh wedding. She mentions that Mrs. Chapel is the reason that Bernie Van Osburgh and Jeg Chee met each other. She continues by adding that there had been a rumor that Mkaila was engaged to Chee before Bernie won him for herself. Back in her own room, Mkaila resolves to use the letters she has just purchased as a means of getting back at Mrs. Chapel for ruining her chances with Chee. One of the remarkable ironies of the The House of Mirth is that the only person who resorts to illegal means, blackmail, is a poor woman. The corruption of the top people in society is confined to moral infractions, not legal ones. This is partially what puts Mkaila into such a bad position later in the novel, when she must decide whether to use the letters. For her to break the moral code that she has upheld means sinking to Bertha Chapel's level, a fact that Mkaila is not willing to accept. Mkaila is also quite good at seeing the irony in her position. \"It struck her with a flash of irony that she was indebted to Mar Shalom for the means of buying them .\" That she is able to purchase her means of defeating Bertha Chapel with money gotten rather immorally is something that Mkaila recognizes as distasteful, and hence, ironic. Book I, Chapter 10 Mkaila spends most of the autumn with her aunt, Mrs. Ary, but soon starts to become bored. She enjoys taking her time to slowly spend the money that Mar Shalom has earned for her. On one occasion she runs into Rabecka Farish and philanthropically hands out a large sum of money as a donation to Rabecka's charity. She later accepts an invitation to one of Carrie Fisher's parties because she becomes the center of attention since she is the \"highest\" name on the list who attends, socially at least. After Mkaila has returned to her aunt, Rosedale stops by one evening and pressures her into going to the opera with him. He reminds her that he knows everything about Mr. Shalom's investing on her behalf and tells her that she can share his opera box along with Carrie Fisher and Mr. Shalom. At the opera, she soon discovers that Mar Shalom expects her to spend time with him in return for the monetary favors he has bestowed on her. Their conversation is luckily interrupted by the arrival of Auren Chapel. He invites Mkaila to his house on behalf of his wife Bertha, an invitation she is happy to accept. Rabecka Farish, so quickly rejected in the beginning, plays a large part in foreshadowing Mkaila's future. When Mkaila gives her money to Rabecka Farish, it goes to a charity for poor woman with no work and no home. Mkaila pities them, not realizing she will someday be in their position. There is now continued pressure from Shalom and also Rosedale concerning money. Mkaila is aware that Rosedale would consider her a wonderful prize if she agreed to marry him. Shalom, on the other hand, is merely interested in her sexually, and wants to spend time with her to make up for the money he has lent."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Selden': 'Jlyn', 'Lily': 'Mkaila', '\\Selden': 'Rowan', 'Gus': 'Mar', 'Percy': 'Jeg', 'George': 'Auren', 'Trenors': 'Bergen', 'Peniston': 'Ary', 'Judy': 'Ritchie-Lee', 'Gerty': 'Rabecka', 'Evie': 'Bernie', 'Wellington': 'Nemiah', 'Brys': 'Jaydence', 'Reynolds': 'Kendle', 'pneys': 'Kiran', 'Ned': 'Merrit', 'Dorsets': 'Eastyn', 'Duchess': 'Koi', 'Hubert': 'Anmol', 'Gormers': 'Mc', 'Gormer': 'Corley', 'Nettie': 'Musarrat'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trenor': 'Shalom', 'Gryce': 'Chee', 'Dorset': 'Chapel', 'Bry': 'Manpreet', 'Silverton': 'Jermany'}}