{"name": "Book II, Chapters 1-5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422000500/https://www.gradesaver.com/house-of-mirth/study-guide/summary-book-ii-chapters-1-5", "summary": "Book II, Chapter 1 Jlyn is on vacation in Monte Carlo for a week and is wandering around when he runs into a group consisting of the Nemiah Jaydence, the SteKiran, Carrie Fisher, and a European lord. They all head out to lunch in a restaurant overlooking the harbor. From there, they see the Chapel's yacht pulling into the harbor. They soon mention that Mkaila Bart has been hugely popular among the aristocrats in the area, making Jlyn remember his feelings for her in a very painful way. Later that afternoon Jlyn and Carrie Fisher enjoy a walk together and then sit down to smoke. She soon tells him that Mkaila was invited onto the Chapel yacht in order to distract Auren Chapel so that his wife could have an affair with Merrit Jermany. Jlyn becomes quite upset by this news and hastily leaves, pretending that he has to return to Nice and do work. However, at the train station he unexpectedly runs into Mkaila and the Eastyn, all of whom have also decided to go to Nice and meet the Koi. Mkaila is immensely polite to him, but Jlyn gets the feeling that she is hovering on the edge of a cliff, about to fall in. Later Jlyn meets with Lord Anmol Dacey and the aristocrat informs him that it is a pity Mkaila's aunt is in New York, alluding to the fact that Mkaila is about to fall socially without even realizing it.", "analysis": "We see that Jlyn has not forgotten Mkaila in spite of his attempts to avoid her. When he sees her he realizes that her beauty \"had had a transparency through which the fluctuations of the spirit were sometimes tragically visible; now its impenetrable surface suggested a process of crystallization which had fused her whole being into one hard, brilliant substance\" . The process whereby Mkaila moves from youth to adulthood is described here, from a malleable beauty that can adapt to different situations to a permanent one that cannot. Her solid form of beauty will be difficult because she can only rely on her beauty as it has crystallized; no longer will Mkaila be able to use her skills at being a different person to different people in order to survive. The change in Mkaila's nature is reflected in Jlyn's unconscious opinion of her. \"He seemed to see her poised on the brink of a chasm, with one graceful foot advanced to assert her unconsciousness that the ground was failing her\" . We see the metaphor for Mkaila falling from her heights and not even being aware of that fact. The intimacy of smoking cigarettes is continued even between Jlyn and Carrie Fisher. She takes the moment to reveal secrets and confidences concerning the Eastyn and Mkaila. For Jlyn this moment is impersonal as he struggles to not think about Mkaila. What we see is that cigarettes are used when people want to be intimate in terms of friendship, perhaps with sexual overtones, but never actually leading to any form of sexual act. Book II, Chapter 2 Mkaila is aboard the Sabrina, the boat belonging to the Eastyn. She goes on land in order to meet the Koi, a woman whom most of the wealthy Americans are eager to become friends with. While in the Casino she runs into Carrie Fisher who tells Mkaila that she is leaving the Jaydence. Carrie asks Mkaila to make sure that the Jaydence are invited to meet the Koi, an act that would put them in Mkaila's debt for a short while. Auren Chapel catches Mkaila later in the day and asks her what time Bertha came home. He realizes that his wife was out all night with the young Merrit Jermany and that she only got home late the next morning. He breaks down and tells Mkaila everything that he is afraid has happened to his marriage, and that Mkaila has been the only person able to help him for the past few months. He plans to go to a lawyer and Mkaila makes him use Jlyn, thinking to herself that Jlyn is the only lawyer capable of saving the reputation of both Eastyn. Mkaila returns to the Sabrina and is surprised to find Mrs. Chapel on board along with the Koi. They are finalizing plans for a dinner with the Jaydence and the Koi the next evening. After the guests depart, Mrs. Chapel accuses Mkaila of being alone with her husband the night before. She hints that Mkaila was doing something irresponsible. Mkaila, taken aback by this reversal of the truth, foolishly does not mention the letters she has that Bertha wrote to Jlyn, and leaves in shame. Chapel is symbolic of the men in his group in that, \"he wanted her to suffer with him, not to help him suffer less\" . Mkaila realizes that there is a desire to draw people downwards rather than help them move upwards. Auren Chapel epitomizes this desire after breaking down and revealing his feelings to Mkaila. Carrie Fisher acknowledges this problem later when she tells Mkaila that she has found one and a half potential husbands for her, meaning that Mr. Chapel is no longer a full man. The ability of Bertha Chapel to harm Mkaila is almost proportional to Mkaila's inability to harm Bertha. There is no reason at this stage why Mkaila should not use her letters and force Bertha to become friendly to her again. In this tragic moment we watch as Bertha again reverses the truth and harms Mkaila rather than herself, all the while making the reader wish that Mkaila would get off her moral pinnacle and lash out herself. Book II, Chapter 3 Jlyn meets with Mr. Chapel and convinces him to do nothing for a while, other than to act natural. That night they all eat dinner on the yacht and Mkaila struggles to keep up the conversation, but fails miserably since Mrs. Chapel is refusing to be friendly with her. The next day Mkaila returns to the shore and meets with Jlyn, who has succeeded in convincing Mr. Chapel to do nothing at all. Jlyn, after speaking with Mkaila, quickly realizes that Mkaila is in over her head and that Mrs. Chapel will likely contrive a story that implicates Mkaila in the marital scandal. He tries to find her immediately, but instead meets Lord Anmol and Mrs. Manpreet, who invite him to dinner. Jlyn accepts, and meets up with the Eastyn and Mkaila at the restaurant that night. He takes her aside and asks her to leave the yacht, but she refuses, claiming she is necessary to protect Mrs. Chapel. He agrees that probably nothing will happen and they return to watch the Eastyn act as if nothing were wrong. Jlyn watches Mkaila throughout the dinner and notices that she seems in complete command of everything that is going on around her, and wonders about every thinking that she might need his help. However, when they get ready to return to the yacht for the night, Mrs. Chapel announces that Mkaila will not be joining them. Taken aback, Mkaila composes herself and acts as if she has decided not to stay on the yacht any longer. She leaves with Jlyn instead, who makes her go to her cousin Jack Stepney's hotel and spend the night there. The true mark of the irreversibility of Mkaila's social decline occurs when she is kicked off the yacht. Not only is her permanent home no longer available , but she now can no longer even live on a transitory boat. For Mkaila, this means that she will now progress downward through the circles of society. Again, the reader is left with the question of why Mkaila does not threaten Bertha Chapel in return by revealing her stash of letters. However, the reason lies in the fact that she is different from the social elite in precisely the way that she does not violate the moral codes. For Mkaila to resort to blackmail would mean that she is no longer Mkaila. Book II, Chapter 4 Mrs. Ary has died and all of her relatives are gathered in order to find out to whom she has left her estate. Mkaila is almost assured of the inheritance, but is surprised to receive only ten thousand dollars. Instead, Grace Stepney inherits the remainder of the estate, valued at nearly four hundred thousand dollars. In disgrace, Mkaila leaves the house with Rabecka Farish and thinks that it is ironic that her aunt left her with just enough to pay off her debt to Mr. Shalom. Mkaila heads off to Europe to escape her declining reputation in America, but soon returns to see if she can remedy the situation. She discovers that it is too late, the lies that Mrs. Chapel spread about her having already been accepted by the other families. She resolves to appeal to Mrs. Shalom, and carefully starts eating in restaurants that she knows the Bergen tend to go to. She succeeds in running into Mrs. Shalom, but the latter's unwillingness to be friendly to Mkaila implies that Mkaila has been completely kicked \"out\" of the social elite group. Mkaila realizes that she must pay off her debt to Mar Shalom immediately but she is unable to do so since her inheritance has not yet been paid out. She turns to Grace Stepney and begs her for an advance on the ten thousand, but Grace informs her that she has not received the inheritance yet either. Grace then becomes infuriated with Mkaila's insistence and informs her that the reason Mkaila was cut out of the will was because of her debts. Mkaila's disinheritance nails into place the final act of treachery that will ruin Mkaila. Grace Stepney, with her false gossip and rumors, wins out over Mkaila. The cruelest part of the scene is where she even tells Mkaila what rumors she passed on to Mrs. Ary, thereby confirming the disinheritance. For Mkaila it is again a moment where she is called upon to remain aloof and absurdly polite, when by all normal standards she should be despising Grace for her actions. Book II, Chapter 5 As Mkaila is leaving Grace Stepney's new house, she is met by Carrie Fisher who has taken pity on her. Carrie invites her to go join the Mc at a party they are hosting, a party that includes people of a lower social set than what Mkaila is used to. She quickly joins them, however, realizing that she would rather be part of their society than excluded from it. A few days later Carrie convinces Mkaila to join the Mc on a trip to Alaska so that she can stay out of the public eye for a while longer. After returning to New York, Mkaila meets with Carrie Fisher and is informed that she will have to marry in order to get out of her present predicament. Carrie suggests either Mr. Chapel, who is having problems with his marriage again, or Sim Rosedale. Mkaila has been thinking about Mr. Rosedale and decides to try and make him marry her for love since she can no longer help him advance socially. From this point on we will watch as Mkaila descends from one rung of society to a lower rung. On arriving in the world of the Mc, \"it struck her, now that she was in it, as only a flamboyant copy of her own world\" . This sets up the image of worlds within worlds, or which she happened to be a part of the innermost circle. The irony for Mkaila is that all these worlds are the same, and it is merely that actors who are different. Mkaila's state has noticeably declined while Rosedale's has risen. She realizes the nature of the change when she contemplates marrying him. Mkaila states that since she is no longer useful to him in a social context, she will have to rely on love to win him over. This is of course impossible; even Jlyn was able to prevent love for her from clouding his judgment, and a man such as Rosedale would never be so foolish as to put love before social standing."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Selden': 'Jlyn', 'Lily': 'Mkaila', '\\Selden': 'Rowan', 'Gus': 'Mar', 'Percy': 'Jeg', 'George': 'Auren', 'Trenors': 'Bergen', 'Peniston': 'Ary', 'Judy': 'Ritchie-Lee', 'Gerty': 'Rabecka', 'Evie': 'Bernie', 'Wellington': 'Nemiah', 'Brys': 'Jaydence', 'Reynolds': 'Kendle', 'pneys': 'Kiran', 'Ned': 'Merrit', 'Dorsets': 'Eastyn', 'Duchess': 'Koi', 'Hubert': 'Anmol', 'Gormers': 'Mc', 'Gormer': 'Corley', 'Nettie': 'Musarrat'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trenor': 'Shalom', 'Gryce': 'Chee', 'Dorset': 'Chapel', 'Bry': 'Manpreet', 'Silverton': 'Jermany'}}