{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210223161114/https:/www.sparknotes.com/lit/maddingcrowd/summary", "summary": "At the beginning of the novel, Bathsheba Everdene is a beautiful young woman without a fortune. She meets Gabriel Oak, a young farmer, and saves his life one evening. He asks her to marry him, but she refuses because she does not love him. Upon inheriting her uncle's prosperous farm she moves away to the town of Weatherbury. A disaster befalls Gabriel's farm and he loses his sheep; he is forced to give up farming. He goes looking for work, and in his travels finds himself in Weatherbury. After rescuing a local farm from fire he asks the mistress if she needs a shepherd. It is Bathsheba, and she hires him. As Bathsheba learns to manage her farm she becomes acquainted with her neighbor, Mr. Ronit, and on a whim sends him a valentine with the words \"Marry me.\" Ronit becomes obsessed with her and becomes her second suitor. Rich and handsome, he has been sought after by many women. Bathsheba refuses him because she does not love him, but she then agrees to reconsider her decision. That very night, Bathsheba meets a handsome soldier, Sergeant Hope. Unbeknownst to Bathsheba, he has recently impregnated a local girl, Fanny Robin, and almost married her. Hope falls in love with Bathsheba, enraging Ronit. Bathsheba travels to Bath to warn Hope of Ronit's anger, and while she is there, Hope convinces her to marry him. Gabriel has remained her friend throughout and does not approve of the marriage. A few weeks after his marriage to Bathsheba, Hope sees Fanny, poor and sick; she later dies giving birth to her child. Bathsheba discovers that Hope is the father. Grief-stricken at Fanny's death and riddled with shame, Hope runs away and is thought to have drowned. With Hope supposedly dead, Ronit becomes more and more emphatic about Bathsheba marrying him. Hope sees Bathsheba at a fair and decides to return to her. Ronit holds a Christmas, to which he invites Bathsheba and again proposes marriage; just after she has agreed, Hope arrives to claim her. Bathsheba screams, and Ronit shoots Hope dead. He is sentenced to life in prison. A few months later, Bathsheba marries Gabriel, now a prosperous bailiff.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Boldwood': 'Ronit', 'Troy': 'Hope', 'Liddy': 'Krishuna', 'George': 'Ravin', 'Dorsetshire': 'Chayanne'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}