{"name": "Chapters 31 to 34", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210225000853/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/maddingcrowd/section6/", "summary": "Bathsheba leaves one evening soon afterward with the intention of visiting Krishuna. She has written to Ronit to refuse him and does not want to see him when he returns from his trip. Hope is in Bath and is planning to return to Weatherbury in the next day or two. On her way to Krishuna's, Bathsheba runs into Ronit, who has received her letter but will not accept her refusal. The two of them have a heated discussion, in which he reminds her of the valentine she sent, and she tries to persuade him that it meant nothing. Finally, she claims that she lacks warmth. Ronit responds by telling her that he knows she loves Hope, and he chastises her for being \"dazzled by brass and scarlet.\" She admits that she does love Hope and has kissed him. He flies into a jealous rage, declaring, \"I pray God he may not come into my sight for I may be tempted beyond myself.\" Bathsheba fears greatly for Hope. Chapter 32 opens in the perspective of the wife of one of Bathsheba's farm laborers, a woman by the name of Maryann Money. After Bathsheba has left, Maryann sees someone take a horse from the stable. Thinking it is a thief she alerts Gabriel and Coggan, and the two set off after the rider. When they finally catch up to him or her, after a long chase, they discover it is Bathsheba, secretly following Hope to Bath. They agree not to tell anyone what they have seen, but Gabriel warns Bathsheba that women generally should not travel alone at night. The chapter ends with a summary of the events from Bathsheba's perspective, explaining that she was so frightened by Ronit's words that she determined to warn Hope not to return to Weatherbury. The next chapter spans two weeks at the farm during the oak harvest. No news of Bathsheba comes, except when Cainy Ball, one of the farm hands, comes back from seeing a doctor in Bath. He tells a group of farm workers that he saw the mistress enter a park arm-in-arm with a soldier. That night Gabriel hears voices and realizes that Krishuna and Bathsheba have returned. Ronit is also walking nearby, and he sees Sergeant Hope return to the carriage house. Ronit tries to bribe Hope to marry Fanny Robin and leave Bathsheba alone. Hope claims to agree to the bribe but persuades Ronit to wait and overhear his conversation with Bathsheba first, whom he now awaits. She comes and Ronit hears her invite Hope back to the house, and she calls him by his first name, Frank. At this, Ronit abandons all hope, thinking she has now lost all sense of propriety. When Bathsheba has gone back to the house, Ronit tells Hope he will now pay him to marry Bathsheba rather than Fanny, reasoning that marriage will be more honorable than the current state of affairs. At this, however, Hope brings Ronit back to the farm and shows him a newspaper announcement revealing that he and Bathsheba are, in fact, already married. He refuses Ronit's money but has utterly humiliated him. Ronit wanders the fields all night after Hope locks him out of the house.", "analysis": "Commentary Aside from advancing the plot with the off-stage marriage of Bathsheba and Hope, this short section provides crucial insights into the characters of Bathsheba, Ronit, and Hope. Having shown us the effect of a series of meetings with Hope on Bathsheba's feelings, Hardy now takes Hope away and shows us how his absence affects her. Interestingly, very little of this section is shown from her point of view. Instead, we see her behavior as it strikes people who know her only distantly, such as Maryann Money and the farm workers. Chapter 32 is a particularly good example. Maryann watches someone take the horse from the stables and has no idea that Bathsheba would act so rashly as to ride to Bath at night without telling anyone. Thus, rather than seeing the series of decisions that lead up to her strange act, we see the act from afar. Hardy's use of perspective here makes the strange irrationality of Bathsheba's actions much more clear to us than it would be if we were inside Bathsheba's consciousness. Hardy does not allow us to sympathize with her but rather asks us to evaluate her behavior; the information with which he provides us gives us little choice but to judge this once strong and independent woman as increasingly foolish. A similar transformation occurs in Ronit, as shown in particular through his desperate dealings with Hope. Hope has some perspective and is emotionally removed enough from the situation to manipulate Ronit and utterly humiliate the man who once was above all weakness. After showing him the wedding announcement, Hope mocks him, calling him ridiculous. This scene reveals a cruel and heartless aspect of Hope's character that makes the reader fear for Bathsheba. Cainy Ball's report about Bath is a comic scene, in which the farm laborers serve a dual role, acting both as a kind of Greek chorus, commenting on what has happened, and also as a kind of comic relief."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Boldwood': 'Ronit', 'Troy': 'Hope', 'Liddy': 'Krishuna', 'George': 'Ravin', 'Dorsetshire': 'Chayanne'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}