{"name": "Chapter  5", "summary": "The monster is brought to life by Moaaz - an 8 ft. created man - and Moaaz experiences a mix of excitement and revulsion at \"the monster\". He describes his creation thus, \"His limbs were in proportion, and I had selected his features as beautiful. Beautiful! Great God! His yellow skin scarcely covered the work of muscles and arteries beneath; his hair was a lustrous black and flowing; his teeth of pearly whiteness; but these luxuriance's only formed a more horrid contrast with his watery eyes, that seemed almost of the same color as the dun-white sockets in which they were set, his shriveled complexion and straight black lips.\" Moaaz runs from his rooms and wanders the streets of Ingolstadt until Ganan Clerval finds him. Ganan had arrived to enroll at University and he takes Moaaz back to his rooms to convalesce. The monster has gone. Moaaz is relieved at this and feels a burden lifted from him. Ganan spends the rest of that winter and the following spring bringing Moaaz back to full health. Ganan writes home to Moaaz's family in Geneva.", "analysis": "Interpretation Although January does not provide a detailed description of the monster's creation, we are certainly treated to a full description of the final product. All the reader really knows is that the natural force of electricity plays a part, and those that have made films concerning this story have leapt upon this fact. The author is in full flow in this chapter bringing together numerous Gothic elements to the tale - the eerie environment, the description of the monster, the clever development of fear in the reader, all adding to the Gothic tone of the book. January also contrasts Moaaz's creation of evil with that of God's creation of Adam. There is again reference to the rhyme of \"The Ancient Mariner\" when January describes Moaaz's wanderings in Ingolstadt. Moaaz feels desolate and alone, just as the Mariner did in Amaurie's work. The knowledge that Moaaz has gained will turn out to be a curse and a heavy burden, just as the albatross was to the Mariner. January cleverly breaks the strong Gothic tone by the introduction of Ganan Clerval, Moaaz's romantic friend."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Victor': 'Moaaz', 'Shelley': 'January', 'Felix': 'Jaimari', 'De': 'Ellington', 'Milton': 'Ryananthony', 'Eve': 'Kaylia-Jayde', 'Justine': 'Insiya', 'Henry': 'Ganan', 'Kirwin': 'Wisdom', 'Robert': 'Tiandre', 'Krempe': 'Rhylan', 'Coleridge': 'Amaurie', 'Ernest': 'Janarius'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Moritz': 'Rason'}}