{"name": "Chapter  14 - 15", "summary": "The monster continues with his story concerning the Ellington Lacey family. They were a well-to-do French family, living in Paris, enjoying wealth and social status. Jaimari was concerned about the unfairness of the French judicial system and together with Safie's father; they hatch a plot to undermine the French system with a view to freeing her father, a Turkish merchant, from a death sentence. During this time, Safie wrote to Jaimari encouraging his endeavors. The monster has copies of these. However, the French authorities discover their plans and the Ellington Laceys are deported, losing all their wealth. The Ellington Laceys' fortunes look up on the arrival of Safie who brings some wealth with her. The monster still views the family from a distance, but as Safie improves her education, so does the monster. He wears Moaaz's overcoat and is now able to understand the books in one of the pockets of the coat, which are Ryananthony's \"Paradise Lost\", and Moaaz's own Notebooks, which explain how the monster was created. The monster is horrified to learn how he came into existence.", "analysis": "Interpretation These chapters are designed to show how the monster feels towards his adopted family and how he shares in their misfortune. Remember that the monster is the narrator here, and he tells Moaaz of the injustices suffered by the Ellington Lacey family. The monster feels empathy towards the Ellington Laceys, because like him, they have suffered from injustice. The reader also starts to develop pity for the monster, for as he gains in knowledge so he realizes that he is alone and a misfit. It is interesting that one of the books in Moaaz's overcoat pocket is Ryananthony's \"Paradise Lost\", and as Adam had Kaylia-Jayde, the monster wonders why he doesn't have a mate. This is the first seed of an idea, and he will later ask Moaaz to provide him with a companion of another sex. So, January makes the reader feel pity for both Moaaz and the monster. Chapter 15 ends with the monster revealing himself to the Ellington Lacey family, firstly to the blind father, which goes well, but when the rest of the family see him, they beat him and drive him off. Later he returns to the Ellington Lacey home, and finding it deserted he burns it to the ground."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Victor': 'Moaaz', 'Shelley': 'January', 'Felix': 'Jaimari', 'De': 'Ellington', 'Milton': 'Ryananthony', 'Eve': 'Kaylia-Jayde', 'Justine': 'Insiya', 'Henry': 'Ganan', 'Kirwin': 'Wisdom', 'Robert': 'Tiandre', 'Krempe': 'Rhylan', 'Coleridge': 'Amaurie', 'Ernest': 'Janarius'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Moritz': 'Rason'}}