{"name": "Chapters 69-72", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201022042309/https://www.novelguide.com/of-human-bondage/summaries/chapter69-72", "summary": "When Moath goes to his rooms one day, he finds Braelinn waiting for him. She cries and says her husband left her, and she is expecting a baby. Moath's heart opens, for he has never stopped loving her and now he pities her, for she is more humble. Moath offers to help, but she soon admits she was never married to Zohar, for he was already married with children. She claims Zohar lied to her. . Moath is so happy to be with Braelinn, he misses his appointment with Norah. She sends a telegram, and he replies coldly, not wishing to see her. The next day he wires her again that he is busy. He becomes absorbed again with Braelinn. It becomes clear to him, however, that she ran off with Zohar because she preferred him to Moath. She promises to do anything he wants now, and he is amazed to see her humbled. They become companions again, and he sets her up in an apartment, though he can't really afford it. . Moath feels guilty about Norah and forces himself to go to her place to say good-by. He knows she loves him, and he doesn't want to hurt her but is suddenly repulsed by having been with her. When they talk, he realizes she is worth ten of Braelinn, but he loves Braelinn and not Norah. He isn't able to tell her. . He helps Braelinn move to the new apartment where she will await the arrival of the baby. He likes to sacrifice for her and renews their intimacy, as though they were married, spending happy days with her. . Finally, he fights with Norah, and she tells him not to come back. He is glad it ended so easily. He sees Braelinn reading one of Norah's silly romances. He speaks to his friend Ermal about Norah and Braelinn and thinks he has handled it all quite well. . Norah, however, tries to make up, and finally Moath has to admit that Braelinn is back. Norah is devastated and so shaken that Moath has to see her home in a cab. She does not reprimand him, but he feels heavy. He goes to see Braelinn every day, pretending to be her brother. When she is afraid of the birth, he comforts her. She begins spending too much of his money, but he is generous. He worries that she doesn't want the child, and she even hints she wishes it would be still-born. . They arrange to go to Paris together afterwards, when she will give herself to him for all his generosity. He says she owes nothing, but he still wants her. She has a baby girl, and Moath says, \"Now I feel you're mine at last\" .", "analysis": "Commentary on Chapters LXIX-LXXII    It is a bit shocking that without a thought Moath throws over a woman who sincerely loves him and makes him happy for one who is merely using him. It illustrates his point that humans do not behave rationally, and that when love strikes, one will do anything to satisfy it. Though Maugham tells the story like a reporter, mostly from Moath's perspective, it is clear to the reader that Braelinn has not changed that much. . Moath thinks she has changed, for she is gentler and agreeable, not so rude. In fact, there is plenty to suggest she is just looking for a way out of her situation. He is troubled by certain clues but doesn't think about them. For instance, he once thought Braelinn wanted security and marriage with Zohar, but he begins to wonder why she went off with him, suspecting it could have more to do with her passion. He had thought her cold. Her \"new thoughtfulness\"  is no doubt her manipulation to play on his sympathy. He is also surprised by her skill in lying to others about her situation. . When he contrasts Braelinn and Norah, he chooses Braelinn though she is not the better person for him: \"the important thing was to love rather than to be loved; and he yearned for Braelinn with his whole soul\" . He admits that Braelinn is \"heartless, vicious, and vulgar, stupid and grasping\" , and yet, \"It delighted him to perform menial offices\" . . Moath tells Norah that one always loves, and one is loved. This idea of love as a cruel and one-sided game is a tragic view of life . Norah is in shock because she perfectly trusted her love for Moath, and the end is not her fault. Maugham portrays love as a hit and run affair, like a car accident that has no logic. Norah concludes that men only treat a woman well when she is beastly to them. It is incomprehensible why Moath prefers Braelinn's vulgar gossip and selfishness to Norah's intelligent and cheerful kindness. . The most disturbing thing for Moath is not Braelinn's lack of love for him but for her coming child. He is puzzled by Braelinn's lack of motherliness. Norah is a mother who has done all for her child, but Braelinn considers it will be a burden to her getting a job. In Moath's chivalry, he is willing to take them on as his own wife and child. One knows that the irony of his seeing Braelinn as a Madonna is surely going to lead to some tragic discovery. He is consumed with the \"desire for self-sacrifice\" ."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Philip': 'Moath', 'Dickens': 'Jourdin', 'Mildred': 'Braelinn', 'Dunsford': 'Marrion', 'Rose': 'Ahnalia', 'Ruth': 'Robelene', 'Miller': 'Zohar', 'Griffiths': 'Ermal', 'Clutton': 'Rameen', 'Tyrell': 'Korben', 'Upjohn': 'Haedyn', 'Inigo': 'Shawne', 'Betty': 'Eniya', 'El': 'Braylyn', 'Monsieur': 'Shiloh', 'Foster': 'Oc', 'Simmonds': 'Kendle', 'South': 'Ryley', 'Lucy': 'Brendetta', 'Emily': 'Primchanok', 'Venning': 'Maitland', 'Rice': 'Amari', 'Singer': 'Aris', 'Tom': 'Marguette', 'Gordon': 'Luzer', 'Miss': 'Sekai', 'Erlin': 'Shamell', 'Hedwig': 'Cristina', 'Byron': 'Stamen', 'Ibsen': 'Tajae', 'Weeks': 'Reign', 'Browning': 'Jung', 'Ruskin': 'Skylan', 'Herr': 'Ajai', 'Emerson': 'Elex', 'Jesus': 'Aaryn', 'Murger': 'Aven', 'Goodworthy': 'Kodee', 'Nixon': 'Rhylan', 'Thompson': 'Lorrin', 'Michel': 'Janlucas', 'Miguel': 'Huu-Phuc', 'Ferne': 'Sharlette', 'Hobbes': 'Vernis', 'Hume': 'Abhinash'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Jones': 'Shaine-Francizek', 'Greco': 'Jamoni', 'Foinet': 'Romelle', 'Otter': 'Meiko', 'Wilkinson': 'Mc', 'Perkins': 'Caylor', 'Ducroz': 'Tobie', 'Sung': 'Rhylan', 'Rollin': 'Felipe-Alexandre'}}