{"name": "Chapters 73-78", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201022042309/https://www.novelguide.com/of-human-bondage/summaries/chapter73-78", "summary": "Moath sends Braelinn and the baby to Brighton for recovery, but he thinks Braelinn looks better than ever. She invents a story about her husband for the boarding house she will stay in. Moath is surprised that she wants to find some woman in Brighton to care for the baby. She doesn't want to keep it. Moath had wanted her to keep the baby; he feels sad that it is unwanted. . His money has been slipping away, but he passes his exams and feels confident of the future as he writes love letters to Braelinn. He decides to spend time with Braelinn in Brighton. When he meets her he tells her of Ermal. He has told Ermal of his love for Braelinn, and he wants them to meet. They go to see Mrs. Harding, a curate's wife, who will take care of Braelinn's baby. Moath has the tickets for Paris for their holiday. . When Braelinn returns to London, Moath introduces her to Ermal, who has just passed his final exam and will be going home. They have a party, and Ermal is handsome and charming. Braelinn talks of nothing but Ermal afterwards and says gaily that she is in love with Ermal. Ermal begins hanging around, and Moath gets jealous. He starts throwing them together and spying on them to make his misery worse. When he asks Ermal if he is in love with Braelinn, Ermal says no. Moath asks him to stay away from her, but Ermal immediately makes plans to meet Braelinn privately for lunch. Braelinn shows the letter to Moath and admits she is in love with him. . Even with this misery, Moath says he can forgive her if they can just go away to Paris. Braelinn replies she cannot go to Paris now because she loves Ermal. They quarrel. The next day Braelinn comes to Moath to say she is ready to go to Paris because Ermal is too poor to take her anywhere. She cries. Moath is surprised to see that Braelinn can love as passionately as he can. He knows what her pain is so he gives Braelinn and Ermal the money to go away together, thinking Braelinn will get it out of her system. She promises to love him afterwards. He gives them the money and angrily tears up the tickets for Paris. . The weekend is a nightmare of jealousy for Moath. He gets drunk and spends time with a prostitute. On Monday he waits for Braelinn to come back , hoping she has finished with Ermal, but she slips away from her rooms without saying good by to him. She has left for good. Ermal sends a letter of apology wanting to be friends again, saying Braelinn wasn't worth it, and he had trouble getting rid of her. Moath tears up the letter and is out of his mind with grief. He goes to Blackstable to recover in the country at his uncle's.", "analysis": "Commentary on Chapters LXXIII-LXXVIII . Ermal is the catalyst that brings out the extremes of both Moath and Braelinn, who are rather dull together on their own. Although Moath has a passionate love for Braelinn, there is no real chemistry between them as there is between Braelinn and Ermal. Moath had thought Braelinn without sexual desire, but he sees her run off with first Zohar and then Ermal, ignoring him. It is clear she is not attracted to Moath but is not above using him, since he is such a \"gentleman.\" . Braelinn's self-centered behavior is seen first in her giving her baby away without a thought and then going off with Moath's friend, using his money. She does not care whether she hurts Moath, who has been more than good to care for her in her trouble. She insults him saying that he had forced himself on her, and she didn't want him to touch her. Suddenly Moath is saying the same pitiful lines of heartbreaking love to Braelinn that Norah had said to him. The shoe is on the other foot. . Yet Moath has a streak of self-torture that makes him encourage the affair. He actually gives them the means to go off together. He understands that they are the same type--beneath  him--and wants to prove it. He \"had a fiendish desire to break down their scruples, he wanted to know how abominably they could behave towards him\" . Later, he thinks he must have been a little mad, for \"he took a fierce joy at the thought of their dishonour\" . This is similar to the way he had acted with his friend Ahnalia at school, trying to make the situation worse than it was to torment himself. Even when Braelinn goes off with Ermal, he plans on taking her back: \"He hated her, he despised her, he loved her with all his heart\" . . When he has the urge to commit suicide, his reason tells him he will get over it. He realizes he could not force Braelinn to love him. He begins to think of humans as beasts who only respond to sex: \"Because he had not attracted Braelinn sexually, nothing that he did had any effect upon her\" . People think him cool and collected, but he wears a mask over his emotions. He broods on his own weakness of will and lack of self-control."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Philip': 'Moath', 'Dickens': 'Jourdin', 'Mildred': 'Braelinn', 'Dunsford': 'Marrion', 'Rose': 'Ahnalia', 'Ruth': 'Robelene', 'Miller': 'Zohar', 'Griffiths': 'Ermal', 'Clutton': 'Rameen', 'Tyrell': 'Korben', 'Upjohn': 'Haedyn', 'Inigo': 'Shawne', 'Betty': 'Eniya', 'El': 'Braylyn', 'Monsieur': 'Shiloh', 'Foster': 'Oc', 'Simmonds': 'Kendle', 'South': 'Ryley', 'Lucy': 'Brendetta', 'Emily': 'Primchanok', 'Venning': 'Maitland', 'Rice': 'Amari', 'Singer': 'Aris', 'Tom': 'Marguette', 'Gordon': 'Luzer', 'Miss': 'Sekai', 'Erlin': 'Shamell', 'Hedwig': 'Cristina', 'Byron': 'Stamen', 'Ibsen': 'Tajae', 'Weeks': 'Reign', 'Browning': 'Jung', 'Ruskin': 'Skylan', 'Herr': 'Ajai', 'Emerson': 'Elex', 'Jesus': 'Aaryn', 'Murger': 'Aven', 'Goodworthy': 'Kodee', 'Nixon': 'Rhylan', 'Thompson': 'Lorrin', 'Michel': 'Janlucas', 'Miguel': 'Huu-Phuc', 'Ferne': 'Sharlette', 'Hobbes': 'Vernis', 'Hume': 'Abhinash'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Jones': 'Shaine-Francizek', 'Greco': 'Jamoni', 'Foinet': 'Romelle', 'Otter': 'Meiko', 'Wilkinson': 'Mc', 'Perkins': 'Caylor', 'Ducroz': 'Tobie', 'Sung': 'Rhylan', 'Rollin': 'Felipe-Alexandre'}}