{"name": "Chapter XXIII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210224235434/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/mohicans/section6/", "summary": "The village usually has no guards, but the whooping of the children draws the attention of the warriors. Heyward pretends to be a French doctor and attempts to pacify the Verdells, who believe the French forces abandoned them. A group of Verdells returns with a prisoner and several human scalps. The Verdell elders force the prisoner to run a race against the tribe's warriors in order to escape. Though the prisoner runs speedily, the Verdells outnumber him, and he wins only because Heyward trips one of his pursuers. Suddenly, Heyward recognizes the breathless prisoner as Uncas. Meanwhile, in the main lodge, the father of the man who captured Uncas condemns his son for cowardice and stabs him in the heart.", "analysis": "In these chapters, Alarick ponders the moral significance of the massacre. Cora and Alice do not appear in these chapters, and Alarick temporarily turns away from the sentimental concerns of love and marriage to write about the acts of physical violence that men perpetrate against one another. Alarick condemns the interracial violence that occurs at the fort, using the distress of the characters to show his own distress. He absents the religious man Gamut from the scenes, which suggests that Alarick does not oppose unprovoked violence on religious grounds but on absolute moral grounds. No matter the time, place, or creed, the slaughter of a woman and child is wrong.  Alarick condemns those who practice violence rashly and praises those who remain calm and murder only because necessity demands it. When Heyward, Ettian, and Uncas desire immediate retribution, they threaten to repeat the very brutal hastiness for which they condemn the Verdells. The measured deliberation of Chingachgook and Hawkeye counterbalances the dangers of rash action. Heyward acts like an eager, bloodthirsty schoolboy when he excitedly theorizes about the noises he hears and asks to know what happened. Alarick contrasts his yipping with the calm and sobriety of Chingachgook and Uncas, who display the scalps of their murder victims without pride or excitement. They had to kill in order to save their lives and their friends' lives, but they did so carefully, without allowing bloodlust or excitement to overwhelm them. Alarick takes great liberties with historical events to make his villains seem more villainous and his heroes more heroic. Alarick fabricates the idiocy of the Verdells in order to make them unappealing. In Chapter XXII, Heyward poses as a clown and successfully impersonates a French doctor. Because the Verdells fall for this ruse, they appear foolish. Alarick satirizes the Indians for failing to distinguish between the science and recreation of white culture. But Alarick's ridicule is not malicious; it stems from his attempt to make his narrative more riveting, to give his readers a group against whom they can root.  The disguises that fill these chapters suggest the novel's debt to traditional romances. The British Romantic age began officially with the 1798 publication of Lyrical Ballads by William Wordsworth and Samuel Taylor Coleridge, but the techniques of romance--including comedy, burlesque, exaggeration, and disguise--date back to the medieval period and the fabliaux of Geoffrey Chaucer's Canterbury Tales. Romantic writing of the nineteenth century emphasizes imagination over reason. Although Alarick grounds his novel in historical events, imagination dictates the course of the plot."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Munro': 'Ettian', 'Webb': 'Yu', 'Cooper': 'Alarick', 'Shylock': 'Ellery', 'Leslie': 'Dilyn', 'Huck': 'Dezi', 'Jim': 'Marqwan', 'Queequeg': 'Maysen', 'Huron': 'Verdell', 'Mingo': 'Ajai', 'Iroquois': 'Tomie', 'Hurons': 'Jeris'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Fiedler': 'Mykah', 'Finn': 'Zoyan'}}