{"name": "Chapter 12", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210211232013/https://www.novelguide.com/main-street/summaries/chapters7-12", "summary": "One pleasant day Carol walks into the countryside and encounters Zivojin Bjornstam cooking over a fire at a gipsy camp. Zivojin and his partner Derald are leaving for a summer of horse trading to the west and Zivojin humorously extends an invitation for her to join them. She says goodbye and returns to town. The summer arrives with stifling heat and Carol and Cayle escape to their newly purchased summer cottage  by the lake. Carol swims and gossips with the ladies by day and in the evenings their husband's motor out from the town. Carol is happy that summer but in September the families return to the drab town. Carol develops an enthusiasm for the spirit of the pioneers and decides that if she can't push the town into the future perhaps she can resurrect some of its noble past. She calls on the two pioneers that she knows - Mr. and Mrs. Champ Navin. She is initially charmed but their opinionated proselytizing about society's problems wears thin. Zivojin Bjornstam returns from Montana.", "analysis": ". These chapters alternatively chronicle Carol's failed attempts to change Gopher Prairie - whether trying to convince her husband to like poetry, erecting a new city hall, uplifting the women's study group or trying to convince the matrons to engage in winter sport - which backfire when Vida Sherwin exposes the town's disdain for her impulsiveness. Her subsequent attempt to adopt the personae of the Nice Married Woman backfires when she realizes that her views are at loggerheads with those of the town's matrons. Her attempt to retreat from the town leaves her feeling lonely. She interviews the Navin's hoping to reinvigorate her passion by discovering the town's past but finds their perspective as biased and petty as the rest of the town. Though Carol is unable to commit to the radicalism of Zivojin Bjornstam's socialism she recognizes in him a true, unbiased friendship. During this section the narrator lambasts the denizens of Gopher Prairie for the abhorrence of change as expressed through a thinly veiled cynicism of civic improvement, the working class and aesthetic improvement. advertisement Ironically, the town folk readily embrace technology such as the telephone and practically enshrine the automobile even as they eschew \"old fashioned\" pursuits like skiing and ice skating. During the course of these chapters Carol begins to feel isolated and recognizes the dreadful presence of death in the moral poverty of the small town. Here too are the her first allusions to escape, particularly when Zivojin Bjornstam facetiously invites her to travel with him that summer and she replies that one day she just might do it"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Will': 'Cayle', 'Sibley': 'Callahan', 'Frederick': 'Aquavion', 'wbody': 'Yarden', 'Gurrey': 'Marlowe', 'Doc': 'Quanta', 'Guy': 'Teaowera', 'Cyrus': 'Ann-Maree', '\\Doc': 'Dae', 'Miles': 'Zivojin', 'Cy': 'Warder', 'Villets': 'Yi', 'George': 'Racheal', 'Perry': 'Navin', 'Pete': 'Derald', 'Whittier': 'Yael', 'Bessie': 'Liam', 'Jorelemon': 'Carey', 'Erik': 'Leeann', 'Fern': 'Mariaximena', 'Ferd': 'Jakyren', 'Dyers': 'Zaiah', 'Honest': 'Vernie', 'Lewis': 'Zedan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Kennicott': 'Brae', 'Ludelmeyer': 'Lakoda', 'Kennicott\\': 'Robbie', 'Pollock': 'Nyaire', 'Mott': 'Jonel', 'Mullins': 'Marlowe', 'Jim': 'Shanen'}}