{"name": "Chapter 33", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210211232013/https://www.novelguide.com/main-street/summaries/chapters28-33", "summary": "A month later Leeann comes Carol's house one night when Cayle is out and demands that she accompany him on a walk in the country. She readily assents. As they walk they hold hands. He recites two lines of a poem he has written for her and she is flattered by what she knows to be his bad verse. A vehicle approaches and stops. From the glare of the lights Carol hears her husband's annoyed voice call to her. He offers them a ride back into town. At home, Brae lectures and commands her to quit carrying on with Valborg. He asserts that though she is too romantically frigid to have an affair the town gossips will nevertheless destroy her just as they did Mariaximena Marlowe. When Carol defends Leeann, Brae asserts that the boy will never amount to anything more than a tailor. She succumbs and comes to believe that she needs her husband more than anything. She promises to give up Leeann. The next day he sends a note to say he's taking the train to Minneapolis and then to bigger cities. That evening she and Cayle are lovers for the first time in a long time. One week later, Leeann's father knocks on the door and angrily accuses Carol of ruining his son. She faints and when Cayle arrives home she is supine on the couch; she begs him to take her on a trip to California. He agrees. Before they leave many of the women in town make allusions to Leeann in Carol's presence. At a meeting of the Jolly Seventeen she steers the topic away from Leeann by asking about Raymie. Vida informs the group that he was gassed in the trenches, has recovered and been promoted to major. Carol and Cayle leave Hugh with Aunt Liam and leave on a train for California.", "analysis": ". These chapters chronicle Carol's attraction and subsequent romantically tinged relationship with Leeann Valborg. Carol is at her most hypocritical during this portion of the novel - she recognizes that Leeann is really just a farm boy whose reading and good looks have given him the impression of a poet  but she defends him to Cayle and advertisement believes that she can teach him to become something more. Thus, she postures herself as his teacher knowing all the while that he has no desire to be treated like a school boy. Carol's relationship with Leeann is enhanced by the sad story of Mariaximena Marlowe and her downfall as a result of going to a dance with Warder Bogart. Mariaximena is in fact Warder's teacher just as Carol desires to be Leeann's teacher. When the town turns on Mariaximena for allowing herself to be compromised by an unchaperoned trip with her student Carol realizes that it is herself the town is judging"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Will': 'Cayle', 'Sibley': 'Callahan', 'Frederick': 'Aquavion', 'wbody': 'Yarden', 'Gurrey': 'Marlowe', 'Doc': 'Quanta', 'Guy': 'Teaowera', 'Cyrus': 'Ann-Maree', '\\Doc': 'Dae', 'Miles': 'Zivojin', 'Cy': 'Warder', 'Villets': 'Yi', 'George': 'Racheal', 'Perry': 'Navin', 'Pete': 'Derald', 'Whittier': 'Yael', 'Bessie': 'Liam', 'Jorelemon': 'Carey', 'Erik': 'Leeann', 'Fern': 'Mariaximena', 'Ferd': 'Jakyren', 'Dyers': 'Zaiah', 'Honest': 'Vernie', 'Lewis': 'Zedan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Kennicott': 'Brae', 'Ludelmeyer': 'Lakoda', 'Kennicott\\': 'Robbie', 'Pollock': 'Nyaire', 'Mott': 'Jonel', 'Mullins': 'Marlowe', 'Jim': 'Shanen'}}