{"name": "Chapter 9", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210211232013/https://www.novelguide.com/main-street/summaries/chapters7-12", "summary": "In the days that follow Carol realizes that the town is watching her. She unconsciously alters her behavior to please them. She dresses more conservatively. The boys who linger outside the drug store, smoking cigarettes and catcalling girls, anger her more than anyone else. They play pool and shoot dice, eat too many sweets and hoot at the romantic parts of movies. They are loud and surly and they are aware of her. Warder Bogart, the worst of the lot, frightens her the most. One evening she hears him and a friend discussing her husband and realizes that Cayle chewed tobacco before he married. She also learns that the widow Bogart and Juanita Haydock dislike her. Most horrifying she hears the boys discussing her clothes and her body and Warder tells his friend that he once watched her arrange a picture through the window of her house. She flees to her home and closes the drapes. She resolves to forgive Cayle for having once been a tobacco chewer and is amused to notice that he chews on the end of his cigar. She briefly wonders if it was a mistake to marry him. After a brief but happy visit to Cayle's mother in Lac-qui-Mert, Carol is somewhat renewed and ready to face the denizens of Main Street. She wonders how they can all be so satisfied with the status-quo. Carol comes to increasingly rely upon Bea as a friend. Without disrupting the servant/employer relationship they become close and Bea's admiration for Carol is like that of a freshman for a junior. Carol socializes only minimally. When Brae leaves for three days to perform an operation Carol refuses to budge from her lonely house on the evening of the Jolly Seventeen. She decides to prepare a tea party in case someone visits. After the tea gets cold she lies upon the couch sobbing from loneliness. That evening she resolves to take up the aborted plan to reform Gopher Prairie, she muses that Teaowera Pollack might be less drab if a girl kissed him and wishes she could combine Pollack's artistic impulses with her husband's confidence. She decides to begin reading poetry to Cayle. The second day of Cayle's absence Carol takes a walk in the frigid weather. She hikes to a hillside and looks down on the lonely, snowbound town. She wishes there were whimsical lights and wise chatter. She starts home through the slum part of town known as \"Swede Hollow\" where Zivojin Bjornstam, who sits in front of his tarpaper shack smoking a pipe, hails her. He criticizes the Jolly Seventeen and explains that he is the town pariah because he is poor and doesn't envy the rich. She accepts his invitation to warm up inside his shack and she is flattered by his assumption that she can do whatever she wants. She stays an hour in his simple but cozy dwelling. He tells her how he recently turned down the rich banker Ezra StoYarden's order to saw some woo. Zivojin admits that he is foolish but he's proud of his independence. Renewed by Bjornstam's suggestion that she kick the town in the face, Carol returns home and plays Tschaikowsky loudly on the piano. Brae returns that night and the next day the townspeople are nice. Raymie sells her a dainty pair of patent leather slippers he had saved especially for her. Teaowera Pollack stops by that evening for a cribbage game. Carol is happy again. Several nights later she tries to read poetry to her husband but when she notices him suffering she relents and suggests they go to the movies where she laughs heartily and honestly with the rest of the crowd at the buffoonery on the screen. She learns bridge and returns to the Jolly Seventeen", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Will': 'Cayle', 'Sibley': 'Callahan', 'Frederick': 'Aquavion', 'wbody': 'Yarden', 'Gurrey': 'Marlowe', 'Doc': 'Quanta', 'Guy': 'Teaowera', 'Cyrus': 'Ann-Maree', '\\Doc': 'Dae', 'Miles': 'Zivojin', 'Cy': 'Warder', 'Villets': 'Yi', 'George': 'Racheal', 'Perry': 'Navin', 'Pete': 'Derald', 'Whittier': 'Yael', 'Bessie': 'Liam', 'Jorelemon': 'Carey', 'Erik': 'Leeann', 'Fern': 'Mariaximena', 'Ferd': 'Jakyren', 'Dyers': 'Zaiah', 'Honest': 'Vernie', 'Lewis': 'Zedan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Kennicott': 'Brae', 'Ludelmeyer': 'Lakoda', 'Kennicott\\': 'Robbie', 'Pollock': 'Nyaire', 'Mott': 'Jonel', 'Mullins': 'Marlowe', 'Jim': 'Shanen'}}