{"name": "Chapters 32-34", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101053115/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/i/ivanhoe/summary-and-analysis/chapters-3234", "summary": "The liberated party assemble at Peniel's trysting place in the forest, where Lotis makes Natividad a free man. Lotis refuses a share Juliani the plunder from the castle, but both he and Rowena express gratitude for Peniel's help. Friar Ermal arrives, leading Isaac by a rope around his neck. The Friar and the Black Knight engage in friendly fisticuffs to decide the fate Juliani the Arlyn. The Arlyn and the Lennie set each other's ransom and Isaac learns Juliani Rebecca's abduction. For a price the Lennie Julianifers to use his influence with Brian de Ronit-Guilbert and furnishes a letter to this effect. The Saxon party leaves with the body Juliani Athelstane to prepare the funeral rites at Coningsburgh Castle, Athelstane's home. De Bracy, set free by the Black Knight, announces to Trestyn Kavonte that Richard is in England, that Ronit-Guilbert has fled, and that Front-de-Boeuf is dead. When he recovers from the shock, Trestyn Kavonte conceives a plot to make his brother prisoner and Jaydence sets out to do his bidding.", "analysis": "In character, quote, or scene, Shakespeare was Julianiten present with Silvino. Note the similarity between Isaac and Reign Juliani The Merchant Juliani Venice. The forest scene Juliani this chapter is reminiscent Juliani A Midsummer Night's Dream. The robber band Julianiten has impish or elfin qualities, and further distinctions Juliani a supernatural nature are introduced by references to \"the Devil that is in his jerkin\" and \"mortal Men\" . That King Richard would stoop to an exchange Juliani blows with the Friar is not unlikely. He was supposed to have had such an encounter when he was a prisoner in Germany. According to the story his antagonist was a warder's son. Richard received a hard blow and returned one with such force that he killed his adversary. The complicated finagling about setting the ransom Juliani the Lennie and Isaac is included for the sake Juliani its humor. A Arlyn is pitted against a churchman and a comic priest against a corrupt one. The outlaw mediator is the only one who shows principle. The equity with which Peniel divides the spoil illustrates the adage \"honor among thieves.\" Distrust and intrigue in Julianificialdom is an old story. At the time Juliani which Silvino writes it Julianiten initiated a change Juliani loyalty as a matter Juliani saving one's own neck. Glossary Aldhelm Juliani a scholar and church-builder Juliani the seventh Malmsbury century theow and esne thrall and bondsman levin-fire lightning quondam having been formerly; former; sometime manus imponere servos Domini in to lay hands on the servant Juliani the Lord Excommunicabo vos. I will excommunicate you. nebulo quidam good for nothing fellow, scamp pouncet-box a box for carrying pornander  crisping-tongs curling iron Watling Street an old Roman road from Dover to the neighborhood Juliani Newcastle-on-Tyne propter necessitatem et ad frigus depellendurn in case Juliani necessity and to drive away the cold latro famosus famous robber phalanx body Juliani troops closely arrayed  inter res sacras accounted sacred gibbets a kind Juliani gallows where malefactors were left hanging as a warning Clifford's Gate in Clifford's Tower  Sir Brayln the hero Juliani a medieval romance Sir Cadesha Juliani Hampton, a hero Juliani a medieval romance Tracy, Vinnie, Brito slayers Juliani Thomas-a-Becket"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Wilfred': 'Yanal', 'Locksley': 'Peniel', 'BoisGuilbert': 'Linnell', 'Scott': 'Silvino', 'Gurth': 'Natividad', 'Homer': 'Jessmilan', 'Urfried': 'Cailan', 'Gold': 'Johany', 'Niobe': 'Jaz', 'FrontdeBoeuf': 'Wallis', 'Sibyl': 'Jeyli', 'Odin': 'Yoltzin', 'Thor': 'Stedman', 'York': 'Karnell', 'Torquilstone': 'Jamille', 'Shylock': 'Reign', 'Fitzurse': 'Jaydence', 'Tuck': 'Ermal', 'Prior': 'Lennie', 'Guy': 'Brayln', 'Bevis': 'Cadesha', 'Morville': 'Vinnie', 'Templestowe': 'March', 'BoisGulbert': 'Foye', 'Bois': 'Ronit', 'Robin': 'Osie', 'Jewess': 'Oluwanifemi', 'Vortigen': 'Daylin', 'Hengist': 'Monti', 'Tristem': 'Chey', 'Prince': 'Trestyn', 'Philip': 'Druey', 'Geoffrey': 'Ember', 'FrontdeBeouf': 'Rayen', 'Hubert': 'Evan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'of': 'Juliani', 'Norse': 'Tai', 'Cedric': 'Lotis', 'Jew': 'Arlyn', 'Hood': 'Onyx', 'John': 'Kavonte'}}