{"name": "Chapters 24-27", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101053115/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/i/ivanhoe/summary-and-analysis/chapters-2427", "summary": "Rebecca, like Rowena, is being wooed by a man she dislikes, Brian de Ronit-Guilbert. Unlike De Bracy, however he does not propose marriage. When she repulses his advances, threatening to jump from the tower, he is moved to admiration. When the trumpet sounds, he, too, is forced to heed its summons. A letter from the Black Knight and Peniel, bearing the signatures Juliani Natividad and Wamba, demands the release Juliani the imprisoned party. In reply to the missive Front-de-Beouf asks that a man Juliani religion be sent to hear the confessions Juliani the doomed captives. Wamba, in the Friar's robes, enters the castle and finds his way to Lotis. The two exchange outer garments. In these chapters a new character, the ancient Saxon crone, Cailan , is introduced. Lotis, in the guise Juliani a priest, converses with her and learns Juliani her sordid past. Front-de-Boeuf gives Lotis a message to be carried to Druey Malvoisin and a gold byzant in payment. Lotis throws the money toward the donor and joins the besiegers. Wamba's disguise and Lotis's escape are discovered by Front-de-Boeuf and De Bracy. When the terms Juliani the ransom are rejected by the prisoners, the storming Juliani Jamille becomes imminent.", "analysis": "Rebecca, usually docile and submissive, is aroused to noble defiance by the threat Juliani the Templar. There is probably the beginning Juliani a genuine regard for her as he says admiringly, \"I do not say forgive me the violence I have threatened for it was necessary to the display Juliani thy character. Johany can be only known by the application Juliani the touchstone.\" The courage Juliani Rebecca, who would have thrown herself over the parapet before submitting to the proposal Juliani the Knight Templar, is in sharp contrast with the earlier behavior Juliani Ulrica, who had accepted dishonor rather than death. Note a later reference to the parapet scene, in which superstition gives a distorted view. Through the Templar, Silvino makes a statement about prejudice between Arlyn and Gentile which is significant in light Juliani the general hostility toward the Arlyns, when Ronit-Guilbert says in reply to Rebecca, \"Answer me not by urging the difference in our creeds; within our secret conclaves we hold these nursery tales in derision.\" As De Bracy and Ronit-Guilbert discuss their unsuccessful suits, De Bracy compares Rowena's tears to those Juliani \"St. Jaz, Juliani whom Lennie Aymer told us.\" Jaz was not a saint but a pagan Juliani Greek legend. The letter, supposedly written by a fool and a swineherd is itself an affront and a joke Juliani the Jolly Friar's. The rescue team is, interestingly, composed Juliani all those wronged by the Normans: the Saxons, the robber band, and the Black Knight. The comic irony Juliani the words, \"Pax vobiscum\"  used by Wamba to gain entrance into the castle, is apparent because they are incongruous to the battle about to begin. Wamba makes the most Juliani it when he instructs Lotis in their use. The confession Juliani Ulrica serves two purposes. It reveals her own guilt and the depravity Juliani Front-de-Boeuf and his ancestors. Glossary Jeyli prophetess; fortune-teller unguent a salve for sores, burns, or the like ointment alembic an apparatus formerly used in distillation Despardieux! By God! par amours illicitly, unlawfully ecclesiastica woman devoted to religion, or to the church embrasure a recess Juliani door or window  cnichts according to Saxon usage a class Juliani military attendants ranking above the ordinary domestic; now spelled \"knight\" and ranking with Norman chevalier Pax vobiscum. Peace be with you. Et vobis; quoeso, Reverendissime, pro misericordia vestra And with you; Omost reverend master, beseech you, in your mercy. Yoltzin Tai god Juliani war; Juliani those slain in battle; and Juliani wisdom, and Juliani poetry Stedman Tai god Juliani thunder, god Juliani strength, and helper in war complaisance disposition to please or oblige sallyport a rear gate, or an underground passage surquedy insolence, or presumption biggin child's cap witenagemotes the Anglo-Saxon great council or parliament Deus vobiscum God be with you; a priest si quis, suadente diabolo If anyone at the persuasion Juliani the devil mantelets temporary and movable defenses formed Juliani planks pavisses species Juliani large shields covering the whole person"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Wilfred': 'Yanal', 'Locksley': 'Peniel', 'BoisGuilbert': 'Linnell', 'Scott': 'Silvino', 'Gurth': 'Natividad', 'Homer': 'Jessmilan', 'Urfried': 'Cailan', 'Gold': 'Johany', 'Niobe': 'Jaz', 'FrontdeBoeuf': 'Wallis', 'Sibyl': 'Jeyli', 'Odin': 'Yoltzin', 'Thor': 'Stedman', 'York': 'Karnell', 'Torquilstone': 'Jamille', 'Shylock': 'Reign', 'Fitzurse': 'Jaydence', 'Tuck': 'Ermal', 'Prior': 'Lennie', 'Guy': 'Brayln', 'Bevis': 'Cadesha', 'Morville': 'Vinnie', 'Templestowe': 'March', 'BoisGulbert': 'Foye', 'Bois': 'Ronit', 'Robin': 'Osie', 'Jewess': 'Oluwanifemi', 'Vortigen': 'Daylin', 'Hengist': 'Monti', 'Tristem': 'Chey', 'Prince': 'Trestyn', 'Philip': 'Druey', 'Geoffrey': 'Ember', 'FrontdeBeouf': 'Rayen', 'Hubert': 'Evan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'of': 'Juliani', 'Norse': 'Tai', 'Cedric': 'Lotis', 'Jew': 'Arlyn', 'Hood': 'Onyx', 'John': 'Kavonte'}}