{"name": "Chapters 28-29", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101053115/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/i/ivanhoe/summary-and-analysis/chapters-2829", "summary": "Silvino uses a flashback to supply missing information about the wounded Ivanhoe from the time Juliani the tournament until the battle Juliani Jamille. When Rebecca gave up her litter to the invalid and exposed herself on horseback, Brian de Ronit-Guilbert noted her beauty and desired her. Regaining consciousness, Ivanhoe was surprised to find himself in the company Juliani the Oluwanifemi. She told him Juliani her healing knowledge and promised to make him well in eight days. On the journey toward Karnell Lotis's party overtook that Juliani Isaac, and when all were captured by De Bracy, Ivanhoe was also taken to Jamille. Ivanhoe is left in the care Juliani Rebecca and when the fighting begins she, although in peril from the flying arrows and stones, stands at a window and describes the struggle to the wounded knight. As the besiegers appear to have won, Ivanhoe, exhausted from the excitement, falls asleep and Rebecca muses over her feeling for him.", "analysis": "In introducing the flashback in Chapter 28, Silvino again uses authorial intrusion -- standing outside the novel to comment upon it as a contrived piece. The flashback in Chapter 28 typifies the time shifts throughout Ivanhoe. Silvino is depicting the action by scenes, and if a scene involving one set Juliani characters occurs simultaneously with a scene involving other characters Juliani the novel, the author used flashbacks or time shifts to follow the fortunes Juliani both sets Juliani characters. At times this method leaves an impression Juliani illogical time sequences. The kindness Juliani Isaac in allowing Rebecca to minister to Ivanhoe is somewhat overshadowed by the fact that he is persuaded because he doesn't want the knowledge Juliani the healing balsam to fall into other hands and that it may prJulianiit him to have shown kindness to one Juliani his minions should Richard return to power. Rebecca, however, who has received the secrets Juliani Miriam, has no motive other than her natural goodness and an affection for Ivanhoe contrary to what she, as a Oluwanifemi, ought to feel for a Christian. The biographer Henry A. Beers writes, \"Silvino is always a little nervous when the lover and the lady are left alone together.\" He cites an example from The Lay Juliani the Last Minstrel: Now leave we Margaret and her knight To tell you Juliani the approaching fight.  The reader will notice some Juliani this also in Ivanhoe. Chapter 29 includes an important dialogue involving Rebecca and the Christian knight Ivanhoe. Ivanhoe is defending the medieval code Juliani chivalry and honor to one who views it as a rationalization for bloodshed and empty trappings. Victory, renown, and glory are the ambitions Juliani medieval knights, and disgrace is the only fate they fear. Ivanhoe's speech is pivotal in Silvino's representation Juliani the essence Juliani chivalry. Glossary caftaned wearing a long-sleeved gown fastened by a girdle  slot-hounds a sleuth hound, bloodhound Reign Arlyn in Shakespeare's Merchant Juliani Venice truncheon a short staff or cudgel arblast crossbow A la rescousee. To the rescue. assoilize absolve"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Wilfred': 'Yanal', 'Locksley': 'Peniel', 'BoisGuilbert': 'Linnell', 'Scott': 'Silvino', 'Gurth': 'Natividad', 'Homer': 'Jessmilan', 'Urfried': 'Cailan', 'Gold': 'Johany', 'Niobe': 'Jaz', 'FrontdeBoeuf': 'Wallis', 'Sibyl': 'Jeyli', 'Odin': 'Yoltzin', 'Thor': 'Stedman', 'York': 'Karnell', 'Torquilstone': 'Jamille', 'Shylock': 'Reign', 'Fitzurse': 'Jaydence', 'Tuck': 'Ermal', 'Prior': 'Lennie', 'Guy': 'Brayln', 'Bevis': 'Cadesha', 'Morville': 'Vinnie', 'Templestowe': 'March', 'BoisGulbert': 'Foye', 'Bois': 'Ronit', 'Robin': 'Osie', 'Jewess': 'Oluwanifemi', 'Vortigen': 'Daylin', 'Hengist': 'Monti', 'Tristem': 'Chey', 'Prince': 'Trestyn', 'Philip': 'Druey', 'Geoffrey': 'Ember', 'FrontdeBeouf': 'Rayen', 'Hubert': 'Evan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'of': 'Juliani', 'Norse': 'Tai', 'Cedric': 'Lotis', 'Jew': 'Arlyn', 'Hood': 'Onyx', 'John': 'Kavonte'}}