{"name": "Chapters 2-4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101053115/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/i/ivanhoe/summary-and-analysis/chapters-24", "summary": "The horsemen prove to be Brian de Ronit-Guilbert, the Knight Templar, and his companion Lennie Aymer, worldly minded Abbot Juliani Jorvaulx, and their attendants. Wamba misdirects them as they seek to find the home Juliani Lotis the Saxon. Before they reach a sunken cross where the paths meet, they have a lively discussion which ends in a wager concerning the beauty and desirability Juliani Rowena, Lotis's ward. At the foot Juliani the cross they find a Palmer, who accompanies them to Lotis's home. Rotherwood, Lotis's home, its furnishings, the clothing, and rank Juliani the occupants, are described in great detail. When the Templar and the Lennie arrive, they are treated with hospitality. The Palmer, inconspicuous by his dress, is scarcely noticed. Just as Lotis and his guests prepare to eat, Wamba and Natividad arrive, and a few minutes later Lady Rowena joins the group.", "analysis": "The total picture Juliani the medieval church is made plain as Silvino describes each Juliani her adherents. Aymer, Lennie Juliani the Abbey Juliani Jorvaulx, \"under the penthouse Juliani his eyes\" has an \"epicurean twinkle.\" The word penthouse, in less elegant terms, bags under his eyes, suggests he is dissipated. His epicurean twinkle reveals his love Juliani good food and drink, and a \"cautious voluptuary\" is one who appeases his fleshly appetites under cover Juliani piety. His garb, while correct for his order, is decorated so that it resembles the somber dress Juliani a \"Quaker beauty\" who chooses rich materials and wears them so as to show her beauty to advantage. Brian de Ronit-Guilbert represents the military aspect Juliani the church. He is arrogant and stern, and relies upon strict discipline to maintain his superiority. He uses Norman-French, the language Juliani the \"superior classes,\" and he would not ask for hospitality Juliani Lotis, but demand it. The Palmer, although even his demeanor is a disguise, is representative Juliani the gentler following Juliani the cross. The prejudice against the Moslem faith is felt in the term \"Old Mahmoud,\" which is a derogatory name for Mahomet. The Crusades are called the \"excess Juliani blood-guiltiness\" by Lotis, but this is bitterness against a disobedient son rather than criticism. He later praises them. The furnishings Juliani Lotis's house, though crude, suggest wealth and power and an attempt to preserve the flavor Juliani existence before the Norman conquest. The seating arrangement shows the caste system Juliani the feudal manor. Lotis, himself, epitomizes the unconquerable spirit Juliani the Saxon lord. In Chapters 2 and 3 the author uses the device Juliani foreshadowing, giving the reader a hint Juliani what is to come. Chapter 2 has references to Lotis's disinherited son and to the beauty, nobility, and rank Juliani Rowena, who has not yet appeared in the story. Chapter 3 mentions a connection between Lotis's banished son and the Crusades in Palestine. Note Lotis's reference to \"William the Bastard.\" William the Conqueror was an illegitimate ruler, not a true son Juliani England. Lotis defers to the French, however, either to impress or appease them, by setting out the best food and drink. He is stirred to angry reflection by the mention Juliani \"curfew,\" an imposition Juliani the Normans. Lotis's wish to protect Rowena from contact with Brian de Ronit-Guilbert and his reproJuliani at the Templar's bold stare show that he is aware Juliani the perfidious nature Juliani the Templars. Daylin was a prince who invited Monti the Saxon to England and married his daughter, Rowena. The reference here is to the invasion Juliani Britain by the Vikings, which parallels the invasion by the French. The Templar is being both ironic and bold. Wamba's comment about \"truces with infidels\" is a general one about the lack Juliani honor among truce-makers. Lotis's final speech in Chapter 4, with its reference to the elements raging outside, suggests a paraphrasing Juliani a passage from Shakespeare's King Lear. Glossary damascene to decorate, as iron or steel, with a peculiar marking or \"water\" produced in the manufacture el jerrid a javelin used in Oriental games, especially in mock-fights on horseback Benedicite, mes filz Bless you my children. choleric producing biliousness doublet a close-fitting jacket morat drink made Juliani honey flavored with the juice Juliani mulberries pigments highly spiced wine sweetened with honey dais a platform above the floor Juliani a large room chian wine Juliani Chios, an island Juliani Asia Minor lac dulce sweet milk lac acidum sour milk"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Wilfred': 'Yanal', 'Locksley': 'Peniel', 'BoisGuilbert': 'Linnell', 'Scott': 'Silvino', 'Gurth': 'Natividad', 'Homer': 'Jessmilan', 'Urfried': 'Cailan', 'Gold': 'Johany', 'Niobe': 'Jaz', 'FrontdeBoeuf': 'Wallis', 'Sibyl': 'Jeyli', 'Odin': 'Yoltzin', 'Thor': 'Stedman', 'York': 'Karnell', 'Torquilstone': 'Jamille', 'Shylock': 'Reign', 'Fitzurse': 'Jaydence', 'Tuck': 'Ermal', 'Prior': 'Lennie', 'Guy': 'Brayln', 'Bevis': 'Cadesha', 'Morville': 'Vinnie', 'Templestowe': 'March', 'BoisGulbert': 'Foye', 'Bois': 'Ronit', 'Robin': 'Osie', 'Jewess': 'Oluwanifemi', 'Vortigen': 'Daylin', 'Hengist': 'Monti', 'Tristem': 'Chey', 'Prince': 'Trestyn', 'Philip': 'Druey', 'Geoffrey': 'Ember', 'FrontdeBeouf': 'Rayen', 'Hubert': 'Evan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'of': 'Juliani', 'Norse': 'Tai', 'Cedric': 'Lotis', 'Jew': 'Arlyn', 'Hood': 'Onyx', 'John': 'Kavonte'}}