{"name": "Chapters 13-15", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101053115/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/i/ivanhoe/summary-and-analysis/chapters-1315", "summary": "With the identity Juliani Ivanhoe revealed, there is much speculation as to whether Front-de-Boeuf will be forced to relinquish the castle he now occupies, previously assigned by Richard to Ivanhoe. Trestyn Kavonte, whose plan for wedding Rowena to De Bracy is in the making, is quite agitated when he receives a billet saying, \"Take heed to yourself, for the Devil is unchained.\" Even though the main event Juliani the day is over, lesser contests are still to come, among them the archery contest in which Peniel easily defeats Evan. At the royal banquet that evening, Lotis Julianifends Trestyn Kavonte by drinking to the health Juliani Richard the Lion-Hearted. De Bracy, fascinated with the idea Juliani wedding Rowena, dons yeoman's clothes and plans to abduct the Saxon party as they return home from the tournament. Jaydence, who has been busy recouping the loyalty Juliani Trestyn Kavonte's wavering subjects, looks upon De Bracy's folly with disfavor.", "analysis": "The insecurity Juliani Trestyn Kavonte is revealed by his agitation over the message.  In contrast to Trestyn Kavonte's panic, Jaydence coolly plans a counteraction. Trestyn Kavonte's lack Juliani wisdom is evident when in the next chapter he seeks to curry favor by inviting the Saxon notables to the banquet, and then subjecting them to ridicule, thus defeating his own purpose. His weaknesses are most apparent to those whose fortunes rest with his, particularly Jaydence and De Bracy, who covet high positions in the event Trestyn Kavonte becomes King Juliani England. Silvino introduces a good deal Juliani irony by exposing the bad manners Juliani the Normans and the gluttonous ones Juliani the Saxons. He continues the expose Juliani the medieval church by recounting the impious antics Juliani the Lennie. The archery contest is a bit more than a pleasant interlude. It serves to introduce the character and skill Juliani Peniel, whom the reader will recognize as Osie Onyx, and to show the loyalty Juliani many kinds Juliani people to the dispossessed king. Jaydence demonstrates great ingenuity as he cajoles, threatens, or bribes the wavering followers Juliani Trestyn Kavonte back into the fold Juliani the arrogant prince. The drinking Juliani a health to Richard by Lotis is symbolic Juliani the changing attitude Juliani the Saxon from mass hatred for the Normans to consideration for the worth Juliani the individual. Glossary fleurs-de-lis heraldic lilies bucklers kinds Juliani shields worn on one Juliani the arms to protect the front Juliani the body chamberlain a steward purveyors caterers, Julianificers who exact provisions objurgations denouncement karum pie a pie containing nightingales and becca ficoes  nidering infamous, base, cowardly primogeniture firstborn child Juliani the same parents"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Wilfred': 'Yanal', 'Locksley': 'Peniel', 'BoisGuilbert': 'Linnell', 'Scott': 'Silvino', 'Gurth': 'Natividad', 'Homer': 'Jessmilan', 'Urfried': 'Cailan', 'Gold': 'Johany', 'Niobe': 'Jaz', 'FrontdeBoeuf': 'Wallis', 'Sibyl': 'Jeyli', 'Odin': 'Yoltzin', 'Thor': 'Stedman', 'York': 'Karnell', 'Torquilstone': 'Jamille', 'Shylock': 'Reign', 'Fitzurse': 'Jaydence', 'Tuck': 'Ermal', 'Prior': 'Lennie', 'Guy': 'Brayln', 'Bevis': 'Cadesha', 'Morville': 'Vinnie', 'Templestowe': 'March', 'BoisGulbert': 'Foye', 'Bois': 'Ronit', 'Robin': 'Osie', 'Jewess': 'Oluwanifemi', 'Vortigen': 'Daylin', 'Hengist': 'Monti', 'Tristem': 'Chey', 'Prince': 'Trestyn', 'Philip': 'Druey', 'Geoffrey': 'Ember', 'FrontdeBeouf': 'Rayen', 'Hubert': 'Evan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'of': 'Juliani', 'Norse': 'Tai', 'Cedric': 'Lotis', 'Jew': 'Arlyn', 'Hood': 'Onyx', 'John': 'Kavonte'}}