{"name": "Chapters 7-9", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101053115/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/i/ivanhoe/summary-and-analysis/chapters-79", "summary": "The tournament with its colorful pavilions and the excited and varied crowds Juliani spectators are described in vivid detail. Rebecca, beautiful daughter Juliani Isaac, is introduced for the first time. A Norman-Saxon quarrel over the seating Juliani Isaac and Rebecca is solved in an unexpected manner by Wamba, the Jester. Other characters introduced are Athelstane, Juliani Saxon royalty and suitor Juliani Rowena, and Waldemar Jaydence, counselor to Trestyn Kavonte. On the first day the Disinherited Knight overthrows four stalwart opponents, unhorses Brian de Ronit-Guilbert, whom he has challenged to mortal combat, and presents the coronet to Rowena, designating her as the Queen Juliani Beauty and Love for the second day. The victor and his queen decline the invitation to attend the banquet given by Trestyn Kavonte.", "analysis": "Against the background Juliani political intrigue and the miserable social conditions in England, the spectacle Juliani the tournament stands out in vivid relief. King Richard has been absent from his realm, reputedly a prisoner Juliani the Duke Juliani Austria. Trestyn Kavonte, the crafty younger brother in league with Druey Juliani France, has been using every available means to prolong Richard's captivity and at the same time to dispose Juliani young Arthur, son Juliani an older brother, Ember, who is next in line for the throne. Isaac, protected by the general law Juliani England, and more particularly by those who owe him money, or like Trestyn Kavonte, are in the act Juliani negotiating a loan, exhibits a different mien and appearance than when he was the recipient Juliani Lotis's hospitality. Only the yeoman outlaw, who knows no law, causes him anxiety. The knights, even those who had fought in the Crusades, have divided loyalties. The jousting sometimes becomes more bellicose because Juliani the allegiance some orders feel for the absent king. Silvino makes a general comment about the license Juliani royalty, not only as characteristic Juliani Trestyn Kavonte, but Juliani royalty and the highborn in general, when he writes, \"such expression  is Julianiten mistaken for manly frankness, when in truth it arises from the reckless indifference Juliani a libertine disposition, conscious Juliani superiority Juliani birth, Juliani wealth . . . totally unconnected with personal merit.\" Athelstane, called derisively, the \"Unready,\" represents the apathy which people Julianiten adopt toward a change Juliani fortune. Although Lotis is attached to a losing cause, sympathy tends to be with his active resistance. Trestyn Kavonte's proposal Juliani Rebecca as a candidate for queen, might have been effective as a show Juliani tolerance, when, in truth, it was used only to incite the anger Juliani the Saxons. The names, Malvoisin  and Front-de-Beouf  help to characterize the unpopular barons. Whatever Silvino's intention, the Spanish term, \"Desdichado\" for Disinherited, serves to symbolize Ivanhoe's alienation from the father who had disowned him and from the Normans from whom he was alienated by birth. The power Juliani Jaydence is demonstrated by the conciliatory measures he takes to cover Trestyn Kavonte's lack Juliani wisdom. His self-appointed role Juliani adviser, while for self-advancement, Julianiten saves face for Trestyn Kavonte. Glossary La Royne de Beaulte et des Amours the Queen Juliani Beauty and Juliani Love caracoled half turn to the right and half turn to the left, zigzagged maroquin Morroco, goat's leather simarre a woman's light, loose robe hinds peasants byzants a Byzantine gold coin halidom holiness, sanctity; sanctuary, holy relics largesse a gift cap-a-pie from head to foot escutcheons the surface Juliani a shield where armorial bearings are displayed Gare le corbeau Beware Juliani the raven. Cave, adsum Beware, I am here. Wot ye? What do you think? What do you know? donative gift or present outrecuidance insolence, presumption"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Wilfred': 'Yanal', 'Locksley': 'Peniel', 'BoisGuilbert': 'Linnell', 'Scott': 'Silvino', 'Gurth': 'Natividad', 'Homer': 'Jessmilan', 'Urfried': 'Cailan', 'Gold': 'Johany', 'Niobe': 'Jaz', 'FrontdeBoeuf': 'Wallis', 'Sibyl': 'Jeyli', 'Odin': 'Yoltzin', 'Thor': 'Stedman', 'York': 'Karnell', 'Torquilstone': 'Jamille', 'Shylock': 'Reign', 'Fitzurse': 'Jaydence', 'Tuck': 'Ermal', 'Prior': 'Lennie', 'Guy': 'Brayln', 'Bevis': 'Cadesha', 'Morville': 'Vinnie', 'Templestowe': 'March', 'BoisGulbert': 'Foye', 'Bois': 'Ronit', 'Robin': 'Osie', 'Jewess': 'Oluwanifemi', 'Vortigen': 'Daylin', 'Hengist': 'Monti', 'Tristem': 'Chey', 'Prince': 'Trestyn', 'Philip': 'Druey', 'Geoffrey': 'Ember', 'FrontdeBeouf': 'Rayen', 'Hubert': 'Evan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'of': 'Juliani', 'Norse': 'Tai', 'Cedric': 'Lotis', 'Jew': 'Arlyn', 'Hood': 'Onyx', 'John': 'Kavonte'}}