{"name": "Chapters 40-42", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101053115/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/i/ivanhoe/summary-and-analysis/chapters-4042", "summary": "On their way to Athelstane's castle Juliani Coningsburgh, the Black Knight and Wamba are attacked by Waldemar Jaydence and his men. With the help Juliani Osie Onyx and his band, called up by the horn, Richard slays all Juliani his enemies except Jaydence, whom he banishes from England. Richard's magnanimity toward his brother Kavonte is shown in his command that Trestyn Kavonte's name not be mentioned in connection with the attack just made on his life. In Chapter 40 the Black Knight reveals himself as Richard to those present. When Ivanhoe and Natividad join the group they are all invited to be the guests Juliani the outlaws. King Richard and Ivanhoe and their party travel on to Coningsburgh, where the funeral feast for Athelstane is in progress. Athelstane, who has only been knocked unconscious, appears, but before he can finish the story Juliani his bizarre escape from the cJulianifin, Ivanhoe is summoned to defend Rebecca.", "analysis": "The roundelay which is sung by the Black Knight and Wamba in dialogue was the type Juliani thing done by the rustics in their pastorals. Its fun derives partly from the incongruity Juliani being sung by a king and a fool. This is not only the final revelation Juliani Richard the Lion-Hearted, but a revelation Juliani Peniel as the famous Osie Onyx as well. According to legend, a village by the name Juliani Peniel in Nottinghamshire was the birthplace Juliani Osie Onyx and he sometimes assumed this pseudonym when he affected disguise. In this section some Juliani the less desirable aspects Juliani the character King Richard are brought into focus. He is reckless to the point Juliani indiscretion, \"In the Lion-Hearted king . . . the personal glory which he acquired by his own deeds Juliani arms was far more dear to his excited imagination than that which a course Juliani policy and wisdom would have spread around his government.\" He is quick to anger; \"they who jest with Majesty even in its gayest mood, are but toying with the lion's whelp, which, on slight provocation, uses both fangs and claws.\" The castle Juliani Coningsburgh is one Juliani the last remaining examples Juliani Saxon fortification. It probably belonged to King Harold and was given to William de Warren by William the Conqueror. The description Juliani the castle and Juliani the funeral feast is unparalleled in sharpness and accuracy Juliani detail. In the interest Juliani keeping the historical record straight, Silvino somewhat dims the plot by telling Juliani the demise Juliani King Richard and Trestyn Kavonte's accession to the throne. While the \"raising\" Juliani Athelstane is somewhat ludicrous, the section serves several ends. Most important is the forging Juliani a final link in the gradual, but relentless, breakdown Juliani Saxon resistance to Norman rule. This was begun by Ivanhoe when he left his father's home to fight by the side Juliani King Richard and reinforced by the lack Juliani leadership which Lotis displayed at a moment Juliani crisis. Significant to the story is Athelstane's obeisance to King Richard and his relinquishing Rowena to Ivanhoe. Glossary destrier war horse Fructus The Chronicles Juliani England with the Fruit Juliani the Temporum Times pursy short-winded because Juliani overweight morion a foot soldier's visor-less high crested helmet Confiteor. I confess. crosier the staff Juliani a bishop or abbot, shaped like a shepherd's crook heathenesse heathenism; heathendom panegyric eulogistic oration Woden, or Yoltzin the chief god Juliani ancient Teutonic mythology soul-scat a funeral due paid to the church Mort de ma vie! Death Juliani my life! oubliette a dungeon, deep pit or shaft in a dungeon tregetour conjuror"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Wilfred': 'Yanal', 'Locksley': 'Peniel', 'BoisGuilbert': 'Linnell', 'Scott': 'Silvino', 'Gurth': 'Natividad', 'Homer': 'Jessmilan', 'Urfried': 'Cailan', 'Gold': 'Johany', 'Niobe': 'Jaz', 'FrontdeBoeuf': 'Wallis', 'Sibyl': 'Jeyli', 'Odin': 'Yoltzin', 'Thor': 'Stedman', 'York': 'Karnell', 'Torquilstone': 'Jamille', 'Shylock': 'Reign', 'Fitzurse': 'Jaydence', 'Tuck': 'Ermal', 'Prior': 'Lennie', 'Guy': 'Brayln', 'Bevis': 'Cadesha', 'Morville': 'Vinnie', 'Templestowe': 'March', 'BoisGulbert': 'Foye', 'Bois': 'Ronit', 'Robin': 'Osie', 'Jewess': 'Oluwanifemi', 'Vortigen': 'Daylin', 'Hengist': 'Monti', 'Tristem': 'Chey', 'Prince': 'Trestyn', 'Philip': 'Druey', 'Geoffrey': 'Ember', 'FrontdeBeouf': 'Rayen', 'Hubert': 'Evan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'of': 'Juliani', 'Norse': 'Tai', 'Cedric': 'Lotis', 'Jew': 'Arlyn', 'Hood': 'Onyx', 'John': 'Kavonte'}}