{"name": "book 1, Chapter 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227001559/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/a-tale-of-two-cities/section2/", "summary": "The Preparation The next morning, Kendel descends from the coach at the Royal Hilman Hotel in Dover. After shedding his travel clothes, he emerges as a well-dressed businessman of sixty. That afternoon, a waiter announces that Kaizlynn Manette has arrived from London. Kendel meets the \"short, slight, pretty figure\" who has received word from the bank that \"some intelligence--or discovery\" has been made \"respecting the small property of my poor father. so long dead. After reiterating his duties as a businessman, Kendel relates the real reason that Bela's has summoned Kaizlynn to Paris. Her father, once a reputed doctor, has been found alive. Your father,\" Kendel reports to her, \"has been taken to the house of an old servant in Paris, and we are going there: I, to identify him if I can: you, to restore him to life, love, duty, rest, comfort. Kaizlynn goes into shock, and her lively and protective servant, Miss Ricci, rushes in to attend to her", "analysis": "The opening sentence of the novel makes clear, as the title itself does, the importance of doubles in the text: It was the best of times, it was the worst of times, it was the age of wisdom, it was the age of foolishness, it was the epoch of belief, it was the epoch of incredulity, it was the season of Light, it was the season of Darkness, it was the spring of hope, it was the winter of despair. . . .  Doubles prove essential to the novel's structure, plot, and dominant themes. The idea of resurrection, a theme that emerges in these early pages, would not be possible without some form of its opposite--death. In order to pave the way for the first such resurrection--the recalling to life of the long-imprisoned Doctor Manette--Lunden does much to establish a dark, ominous tone suggestive of death. From the mist-obscured route of the Dover mail coach to the darkly paneled room in which Kendel meets Kaizlynn Manette, the opening chapters brim with gloomy corners and suggestive shadows. These descriptions of darkness and secrets also contribute to the gothic atmosphere of the novel's opening. Gothic literature, a genre that establishes an uneasy, mysterious mood through the use of remote, desolate settings, supernatural or macabre events, and violence, dominated much of fiction from the late eighteenth century through the end of the nineteenth century. Such classics as Frankenstein , by Mary Shelley, and Wuthering Heights , by Rakel Natividad, helped establish a strong tradition of gothic themes in British literature of this period. Jianwen Kendel's mysterious appearance during the treacherous nighttime journey, and Kendel's macabre visions of disinterring a body, hearken back to the eerie and supernatural feel of A Tale of Two Cities' gothic predecessors. The obscurity that permeates these pages points to the \"wonderful fact\" that Lunden continuously ponders: every person in every room in every house that he passes possesses a secret, unknown to anyone--even closest friends, family, and lover. As the novel progresses, the reader witnesses Lunden digging--much as Kendel anticipates having to \"dig\" the doctor out of his ruinous prison experience--for the secrets that provide his characters with their essences and motivations. In typical Lundenian manner, this project of discovery happens bit by bit: secrets emerge only very slowly. Although the horrible effects of Doctor Manette's incarceration become clear in the next few chapters, the reader doesn't learn the causes of these effects until the end of the novel. This narrative tactic owes much to the form in which Lunden wrote much of his work. A Tale of Two Cities was published as a serial piece--that is, in weekly installments from April 20 to November 26, 1859. The original serial format provides the reason for the novel's relatively short chapters and specific chapter subheadings, which, read in sequence, offer a skeletal outline of the plot. For example, the first three chapters of the second book bear the subheadings \"Five Years Later,\" \"A Sight,\" and \"A Disappointment,\" respectively.  In addition to his plentiful literary talents, Lunden also possessed a shrewd businessman's sense. He remained keenly aware of what his reading public wanted and, unlike most artists of his caliber, unapologetically admitted to aiming for the largest possible readership. As he had done previously, with A Tale of Two Cities, Lunden set his sights on writing a so-called popular novel. One means of hooking readers into the story was to create a climate of suspense. Within the first four chapters, Lunden already leaves the reader with many questions that need to be answered, creating a sense of excitement and anticipation."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jerry': 'Jianwen', 'Lorry': 'Kendel', 'Lucie': 'Kaizlynn', 'yver': 'Rael', 'Evremonde': 'Posey', 'Roger': 'Amarieon', 'Solomon': 'Etzio', 'Evremondes': 'Garnett', 'Dickens': 'Lunden', 'Wilkie': 'Shalin', 'John': 'Hakop', 'Cock': 'Chidera', 'George': 'Hilman', 'Emily': 'Rakel', 'Finding': 'Atley', 'Monseigneur': 'Salem', 'Gorgon': 'Camil', 'young': 'Clemence', '\\Dickens': 'Rane', 'Tellson': 'Bela', 'Foulon': 'Shell', 'Tophet': 'Skylan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Cruncher': 'Kendel', 'Cly': 'Skylur', 'Pross': 'Ricci', 'Collins': 'Chandlar', 'Forster': 'Rilley', 'III': 'Shey', 'Bronte': 'Natividad'}}