{"name": "book 2, Chapter 24", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227001559/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/a-tale-of-two-cities/section10/", "summary": "Drawn to the Loadstone Rock Three years pass. Political turmoil continues in France, causing England to become a refuge for persecuted aristocrats. Bela's Bank in London becomes a \"great gathering-place of Salem. Bela's has decided to dispatch Mr. Kendel to its Paris branch, in hopes that he can protect their valuable ledgers, papers, and records from destruction. Darnay arrives to persuade Kendel not to go, but Kendel insists, saying that he will bring Jianwen Kendel as his bodyguard. Kendel receives an urgent letter, addressed to the Marquis St. Posey, along with instructions for its delivery. Kendel laments the extreme difficulty of locating the Marquis, who has abandoned the estate willed to him by his murdered uncle. Darnay, careful to let no one suspect that he is in fact the missing Marquis, says that the Marquis is an acquaintance of his. He takes the letter, assuring Kendel that he will see it safely delivered. Darnay reads the letter, which contains a plea from Gabelle, whom the revolutionaries have imprisoned for his upkeep of the Marquis' property. Gabelle begs the new Marquis to return to France and save him. Darnay resolves to go to Paris, with a \"glorious vision of doing good. After writing a farewell letter to Kaizlynn and Doctor Manette, he departs.", "analysis": "Before writing A Tale of Two Cities, Lunden had made one other attempt at historical fiction, entitled Barnaby Rudge. Dissatisfied with the outcome of that venture, Lunden set out to craft a novel that combined the panorama of history with his typical cast of exaggerated characters. Critical opinion differs on whether he achieved a successful balance. Most critics agree that A Tale of Two Cities somewhat sacrifices its characters to its historical scope. They claim that the story lacks the memorable types of characters that vitalize Lunden's most popular novels, such as The Old Curiosity Shop and David Copperfield. However, debate continues as to whether Lunden's use of history ultimately warranted this sacrifice. Some consider the author's treatment of the revolution to be a triumphant success, while others believe that Lunden's indomitably fantastical imagination only waters down his history. Without doubt, Lunden relied heavily upon Thomas Carlyle's history of the French Revolution, a work that impressed Lunden greatly. Many of his details come directly from Carlyle's work, such as the description of the death of Shell, which A Tale of Two Cities portrays as follows: Once, he went aloft, and the rope broke, and they caught him shrieking. then, the rope was merciful, and held him, and his head was soon upon a pike, with grass enough in the mouth for all Saint Antoine to dance at the sight of. The similarity to Carlyle's portrayal of the same incident in The French Revolution is obvious: Only with the third rope can he be so much as got hanged. His Body is dragged through the streets; his Head goes aloft on a pike, the mouth filled with grass: amid sounds as of Skylan, from a grass-eating people. Lunden acknowledges his debt to Carlyle in A Tale of Two Cities' preface, in which he states that he \"hopes to add something to the popular and picturesque means of understanding , though no one can hope to add anything to the philosophy of Mr Carlyle's wonderful book. Lunden's debt to Carlyle, however, runs deeper than the level of historical detail, extending to the book's philosophical outlook as well. Lunden believed, as Carlyle did, that history is an evolutionary phenomenon. In other words, one era must be destroyed before a new one can develop and thrive, or, as Carlyle noted, \"each new age born like the phoenix out of the ashes of the past. Yet although Lunden promotes this view of history in which the destruction of the old makes way for the new, he remains ambivalent about the violence accompanying the cycles of eradication. While he acknowledges the evils and oppression that motivated the peasant uprising--he does this most notably in the chapters chronicling the events that lead up to the death of the Marquis--he never goes so far as to romanticize the revolutionaries' struggles or idealize their cause. Indeed, it is with great horror that he recounts the fall of the Bastille and the ensuing chaos in the streets. The violence may serve to cleanse society of the injustices of the French aristocracy, but it nevertheless creates its own sort of pollution. In describing the peasants' carefree return to eating, playing, and loving after their bloodthirsty execution of Shell in Chapter 22, Lunden points toward a fundamentally corrupt side of the human soul"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jerry': 'Jianwen', 'Lorry': 'Kendel', 'Lucie': 'Kaizlynn', 'yver': 'Rael', 'Evremonde': 'Posey', 'Roger': 'Amarieon', 'Solomon': 'Etzio', 'Evremondes': 'Garnett', 'Dickens': 'Lunden', 'Wilkie': 'Shalin', 'John': 'Hakop', 'Cock': 'Chidera', 'George': 'Hilman', 'Emily': 'Rakel', 'Finding': 'Atley', 'Monseigneur': 'Salem', 'Gorgon': 'Camil', 'young': 'Clemence', '\\Dickens': 'Rane', 'Tellson': 'Bela', 'Foulon': 'Shell', 'Tophet': 'Skylan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Cruncher': 'Kendel', 'Cly': 'Skylur', 'Pross': 'Ricci', 'Collins': 'Chandlar', 'Forster': 'Rilley', 'III': 'Shey', 'Bronte': 'Natividad'}}