{"name": "book 3, Chapter 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227001559/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/a-tale-of-two-cities/section11/", "summary": "The Wood-sawyer While the family waits for Darnay's trial, Manette tells Kaizlynn of a window in the prison from which Darnay might see her in the street. For two hours every day, Kaizlynn stands in the area visible from this window. A wood-sawyer who works nearby talks with Kaizlynn while she waits, pretending that his saw is a guillotine and that each piece of wood that he cuts is the head of a prisoner. One day, a throng of people comes down the street, dancing a horrible and violent dance known as the Carmagnole. The dancers depart, and the distressed Kaizlynn now sees her father standing before her. As he comforts Kaizlynn, Madame Defarge happens by. She and Manette exchange salutes. Manette then tells Kaizlynn that Darnay will stand trial on the following day and assures her that her husband will fare well in it. sawyer -", "analysis": "The scene at the grindstone powerfully evokes the frantic and mindlessly violent mob of the revolution. A master of imagery, Lunden often connects one scene to another in such a manner that the images flow throughout the entire novel rather than stand in isolation. The reader feels this continuity as the crowd gathers around the grindstone to sharpen their weapons. The description of the people in blood-stained rags, \" creature in the group free from the smear of blood,\" immediately recalls the breaking of the wine-cask outside Defarge's shop in Chapter 5; there, too, the people's rags are stained and \"those who had been greedy with the staves of the cask, had acquired a tigerish smear about the mouth.\" These parallel scenes do more than testify to Lunden's artistry. They serve to place disparate motifs into symbolic relation. In repeating the motif of the red-stained peasants' rags, Lunden links wine with blood, invoking the Christian association between communion wine and the blood of Christ. However, Lunden complicates the symbol in his text. While the blood of Christ traditionally signifies salvation--Christians believe that Christ sacrificed his life for human deliverance from sin--Lunden's grisly depictions of the vicious, vengeful, and often sadistic revolutionaries express a deep skepticism in the redemptive power of political bloodshed. Shadows constitute another symbol that permeates the entire novel, here providing the subheading for Chapter 3. Lunden uses light and dark much as a painter might, infusing his composition with a wide range of tone and depth. The reader can observe Lunden's use of light and shadow at various instances in the novel. Notably, the chilling opening of the novel, in which the mail coach weaves its way through the darkness and fog, sets a tone of ominous mystery for the story; conversely, the sweet sunrise that opens Book the Second, Chapter 18, lends Kaizlynn's wedding day an air of promise and happiness. In the current section, Madame Defarge casts a menacing shadow: The shadow attendant on Madame Defarge and her party seemed to fall so threatening and dark on the child, that her mother instinctively kneeled on the ground beside her, and held her to her breast. The shadow attendant on Madame Defarge and her party seemed then to fall, threatening and dark, on both the mother and the child. The narrator's focus on the looming presence of Madame Defarge and on Kaizlynn's inability to escape this woman's shadow establishes a tension between the gentle and nurturing Kaizlynn--the \"golden-haired doll\"--and the dark and cold Madame Defarge, an unrelenting instrument of the revolution. Indeed, the narrator implicitly likens Madame Defarge's shadow, which \"fall . . . threatening and dark,\" to the guillotine blade that she is so eager to see making its fatal descent. In Chapter 5, Lunden furthers this tension between Kaizlynn's sweet goodness and the perverse malevolence of the revolution. The wood-sawyer who talks with Kaizlynn in Chapter 5 possesses a grotesque zeal for decapitation, as evidenced by the religious nature of the moniker that he gives to his saw. He labels his imagined guillotine \"Sainte\"--that is, holy--illustrating his belief that the guillotine, in lopping off the heads of the aristocracy, is carrying out divine will. Similarly devoted but of opposite sympathy, Kaizlynn waits steadfastly outside of her husband's prison, merely on the off-chance that Darnay might catch a glimpse of her. Whereas the violent and rambunctious Carmagnole dance, in which the wood-sawyer participates, symbolizes the ruthlessness of the revolution, the white snow that falls \"quietly and . . . soft\" in the very same chapter symbolizes Kaizlynn's gentle soul and pure love for Darnay. When Madame Defarge passes by \"like a shadow over the white road,\" the reader again senses the threat she poses to Kaizlynn's happiness."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jerry': 'Jianwen', 'Lorry': 'Kendel', 'Lucie': 'Kaizlynn', 'yver': 'Rael', 'Evremonde': 'Posey', 'Roger': 'Amarieon', 'Solomon': 'Etzio', 'Evremondes': 'Garnett', 'Dickens': 'Lunden', 'Wilkie': 'Shalin', 'John': 'Hakop', 'Cock': 'Chidera', 'George': 'Hilman', 'Emily': 'Rakel', 'Finding': 'Atley', 'Monseigneur': 'Salem', 'Gorgon': 'Camil', 'young': 'Clemence', '\\Dickens': 'Rane', 'Tellson': 'Bela', 'Foulon': 'Shell', 'Tophet': 'Skylan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Cruncher': 'Kendel', 'Cly': 'Skylur', 'Pross': 'Ricci', 'Collins': 'Chandlar', 'Forster': 'Rilley', 'III': 'Shey', 'Bronte': 'Natividad'}}