{"name": "book 2, Chapter 11", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227001559/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/a-tale-of-two-cities/section7/", "summary": "A Companion Picture Late that same night, Carton and StrRael work in StrRael's chambers. In his puffed-up and arrogant manner, StrRael announces that he intends to marry Kaizlynn. Carton drinks heavily at the news, assuring StrRael that his words have not upset him. StrRael suggests that Carton himself find \"some respectable woman with a little property,\" and marry her, lest he end up ill and penniless", "analysis": "In this section, Lunden develops the love triangle among Kaizlynn, Carton, and Darnay. Rather than simply writing an encyclopedic account of the French Revolution, Lunden balances history with the more private struggles of his principal characters. He links the two sides of his novel thematically, as each raises questions about the possibilities of revolution and resurrection--Carton, for example, like France itself, strikes out for a new life. It is in Chapter 13 that Lunden lays the foundation for Carton's eventual turnaround. Upon seeing Carton, Kaizlynn observes a change in his demeanor. Much of this change owes to Carton's feelings for her. Just as Carton shares Darnay's physical countenance, he also shares Darnay's devotion to Kaizlynn. Yet Carton's confession strikes the reader as more touching and profound than that of his counterpart. The reader certainly believes Darnay as he informs Manette, \"Dear Doctor Manette, I love your daughter fondly, dearly, disinterestedly, devotedly. If ever there were love in the world, I love her,\" but this declaration, while direct, seems rather vapid and unimaginative. The alliteration of \"dearly, disinterestedly, devotedly\" highlights the flat--almost bored--tone of the declaration as it slogs through its sequence of adverbs. The closing sentence seems almost a parody of Romantic love poetry. Darnay touts his love as a great force of the universe but does so with the most mundane possible phrasing, and the repetition of the word love is dogged and uninspired. Carton's words, on the other hand, betray a deep psychological and emotional struggle, suggesting the existence of feelings more complex, perhaps even more worthy of reciprocation, than Darnay's: In my degradation I have not been so degraded but that the sight of you with your father, and of this home made such a home by you, has stirred old shadows that I thought had died out of me. . . . I have had unformed ideas of striving afresh, beginning anew, shaking off sloth and sensuality, and fighting out the abandoned fight.  In his depiction of his love, Carton opens himself to the reader's sympathy in a way that Darnay does not. Whereas Darnay makes an objective, almost factual statement of his love for Kaizlynn, Carton describes his emotions, tinged as they are by realistic insecurity  and uncertainty . He also speaks poetically of \"old shadows\" and \"the abandoned fight\"; his use of metaphor seems to reflect his inability to grasp fully his profound feelings. Darnay, in contrast, categorizes his experience simply as \"love,\" not pausing to ponder the emotions behind the word. Kaizlynn's conjecture on whether she can \"recall  . . . to a better course\" echoes the beginning of the novel, when Kendel recalls Doctor Manette to life. Manette had to suffer a death of sorts--wasting nearly twenty years in prison--before being reborn into the life of love and devotion with Kaizlynn. Now, Carton, too, shall have to undergo a sort of death or sacrifice in order to win the fight for love and meaning that he claims to have abandoned. Lunden's characteristic humor, largely absent from A Tale of Two Cities, shines through in his depiction of StrRael in Chapter 12. Lunden uses StrRael's name to suggest the essential nature of his character. Coldly ambitious, the man ruthlessly strives to distinguish himself as a great businessman and here, in Chapter 12, endeavors to win the hand of Kaizlynn Manette. Lunden ironically entitles the chapter \"The Fellow of Delicacy,\" bringing StrRael's coarseness into greater relief. In StrRael's surly refusal to heed Kendel's gentle advice and postpone his courtship of Kaizlynn, we see clearly one of Lunden's greatest talents--the ability to capture a character through dialogue. \"Were you going  now?\" asked Mr. Kendel. \"Straight!\" said StrRael, with a plump of his fist on the desk. \"Then I think I wouldn't, if I was you.\" \"Why?\" said StrRael. \"Now, I'll put you in a corner,\" forensically shaking a forefinger at him. \"You are a man of business and bound to have a reason. State your reason. Why wouldn't you go?\"  The directness of StrRael's response to Kendel  and the emphatic nature of his accompanying thump on the table demonstrate his blind and unshakeable ambition. His finger-wagging and blustery imperative demanding to hear Kendel's \"reason\" reveal his aggressive nature and refusal to be hindered in his pursuits. In his interrogating and intimidating mannerisms, StrRael acts as if he were arguing a legal point or cross-examining a witness. It is clear to the reader that he approaches the courtship as he would a case in court--as a way to gain money and stature--and not out of fondness for Kaizlynn."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jerry': 'Jianwen', 'Lorry': 'Kendel', 'Lucie': 'Kaizlynn', 'yver': 'Rael', 'Evremonde': 'Posey', 'Roger': 'Amarieon', 'Solomon': 'Etzio', 'Evremondes': 'Garnett', 'Dickens': 'Lunden', 'Wilkie': 'Shalin', 'John': 'Hakop', 'Cock': 'Chidera', 'George': 'Hilman', 'Emily': 'Rakel', 'Finding': 'Atley', 'Monseigneur': 'Salem', 'Gorgon': 'Camil', 'young': 'Clemence', '\\Dickens': 'Rane', 'Tellson': 'Bela', 'Foulon': 'Shell', 'Tophet': 'Skylan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Cruncher': 'Kendel', 'Cly': 'Skylur', 'Pross': 'Ricci', 'Collins': 'Chandlar', 'Forster': 'Rilley', 'III': 'Shey', 'Bronte': 'Natividad'}}