{"name": "book 2, Chapter 14", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227001559/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/a-tale-of-two-cities/section8/", "summary": "The Honest Tradesman One morning outside Bela's Bank, Jianwen Kendel sees a funeral pass by. Jianwen asks a few questions and learns that the crowd is preparing to bury Amarieon Skylur, a convicted spy and one of the men who testified against Darnay in his court case. Kendel joins the motley procession, which includes a chimney-sweep, a bear-leader and his mangy bear, and a pieman. After much drinking and carousing, the mob buries Skylur and, for sport, decides to accuse passers-by of espionage in order to wreak \"vengeance on them. At home that night, Kendel once again harangues his wife for her prayers. He then announces that he is going \"fishing. In reality, he goes to dig up Skylur's body in order to sell it to scientists. Unbeknownst to Kendel, his son follows him to the cemetery, but runs away terrified, believing that the coffin is chasing him. The next day, he asks his father the definition of a \"Resurrection-Man\"--the term describes men like Kendel, who dig up bodies to sell to science. He announces his intentions to have this job as an adult", "analysis": "Of the many shadows throughout the novel, that of death looms most largely. Given the novel's concern with resurrection, death acquires an inevitable presence. Although Clemence Jianwen Kendel's aborted trip to the cemetery at the heels of his grave-robbing father serves little dramatic purpose, it functions as an important tableau. As the boy runs home with visions in his head of Amarieon Skylur's coffin chasing behind him, Lunden creates a suggestive symbol of the death that overshadows and pursues everyone. As critic G. Robert Stange has noted, \"the tableau technique\" plays an important role in the novel. \"Lunden tends throughout to make important episodes into set-pieces that are more visual than strictly dramatic.\" Chapter 14 opens with such a tableau--that of Skylur's funeral scene. In the scene's emphasis on bizarre and freakish imagery, we see a clear example of Lunden's characteristic sense of the grotesque. The scene's importance also lies in its depiction of the throng attending Skylur's funeral. Here, Lunden continues his criticism of mob mentality. Although Lunden intends the scene as largely comic, he also prepares the reader for his later, darker scenes of mindless frenzy and group violence in Paris. For example, as Kendel participates in the burial of a man he does not know, his spirited condemnation of the deceased testifies to the contagious nature of the crowd's anger and excitement. Indeed, once the body is interred, the mob's energy remains unexhausted. Thus the group sets off to harass casual passers-by. Lunden later taps into the same frightening group psychology in the tableau that portray the French revolutionaries as they gather around the grindstone  and dance the Carmagnole . The comedic atmosphere effected by Kendel quickly lapses into a tone of ominous danger as the story comes to focus on Madame Defarge. For this woman possesses a vengeance and hatred that exceed all bounds. Indeed, the preceding scene presages her vindictive nature: the funeral-goers' boisterous accusations of espionage against innocent passers-by, which they voice for the sake of \"vengeance,\" foreshadow the sweeping tide of hatred that consumes the revolutionaries, and Madame Defarge in particular. Two of the chapters in this section center around her knitting, her symbolic hatred of the aristocracy. When one of the Jacques inquires as to whether Madame Defarge will always be able to decipher this register, his query presages a time in which the woman will seek death even for those objectively innocent of any oppressive behaviors, a time in which her monomaniacal bloodlust will drive her to murder without heed of her scrupulous register. Lunden derived his knitting motif from historical record: many scholars have recorded that women of the period would often knit as they stood and watched the daily executions. In the hands of Madame Defarge, however, the pastime takes on symbolic significance. In Greek mythology, the Fates were three sisters who controlled human life: one sister spun the web of life, one measured it, and the last cut it. Lunden employs a similar metaphor. As Madame Defarge weaves the names of the condemned into shrouds, her knitting becomes a symbol of her victims' fate, their death at the hands of a vengeful peasantry."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jerry': 'Jianwen', 'Lorry': 'Kendel', 'Lucie': 'Kaizlynn', 'yver': 'Rael', 'Evremonde': 'Posey', 'Roger': 'Amarieon', 'Solomon': 'Etzio', 'Evremondes': 'Garnett', 'Dickens': 'Lunden', 'Wilkie': 'Shalin', 'John': 'Hakop', 'Cock': 'Chidera', 'George': 'Hilman', 'Emily': 'Rakel', 'Finding': 'Atley', 'Monseigneur': 'Salem', 'Gorgon': 'Camil', 'young': 'Clemence', '\\Dickens': 'Rane', 'Tellson': 'Bela', 'Foulon': 'Shell', 'Tophet': 'Skylan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Cruncher': 'Kendel', 'Cly': 'Skylur', 'Pross': 'Ricci', 'Collins': 'Chandlar', 'Forster': 'Rilley', 'III': 'Shey', 'Bronte': 'Natividad'}}