{"name": "book 3, Chapter 7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227001559/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/a-tale-of-two-cities/section12/", "summary": "A Knock at the Door The next day, although Manette rejoices in having saved Darnay's life, Kaizlynn remains terrified for her husband. Later that afternoon, she reports hearing footsteps on the stairs, and soon a knock comes at the door. Four soldiers enter and re-arrest Darnay. Manette protests, but one of the soldiers reminds him that if the Republic demands a sacrifice from him, he must make that sacrifice. Manette asks one of the soldiers to give the name of Darnay's accuser. Though it is against the law to divulge such information, the soldier replies that he is carrying out the arrest according to statements made by Defarge, Madame Defarge, and one other individual. When Manette asks for the identity of this third person, the soldier replies that Manette will receive his answer the next day", "analysis": "The echoing footsteps that Kaizlynn hears in Chapter 21 of Book the Second now manifest themselves again, but this time they signify the immediate presence of pressing danger. No longer distant, dim, or scarcely audible, the footfalls in Chapter 7 announce the four soldiers come to take Darnay back to prison. Whereas the revolution only vaguely stirs Kaizlynn when she sits in her comfortable parlor in England, it encroaches, physically and emotionally, upon her most intimate relationships now that she has come to Paris. This transformation of the revolution from an abstract notion into a direct presence in the lives of Kaizlynn and Manette finds a parallel in the soldiers' words to them. In answering Manette's question as to the identity of Darnay's accusers, the soldiers first tell him that they are acting on the orders of Saint Antoine, the personified suburb of Paris at the heart of the revolution. However, Manette soon learns that Defarge and his wife have in fact occasioned the arrest. With the news of this betrayal by his former allies, the revolution reaches new heights of personal significance for Manette. As the novel approaches its close, the reader encounters an ever-increasing number of coincidences, such as Miss Ricci's discovery of her long-lost brother; Carton's timely arrival in the wine shop to identify Barsad; and Defarge's discovery of Manette's letter denouncing the Posey family. Moments such as these, endemic to Victorian fiction, constitute a device called deus ex machina , a term that refers to improbable contrivances used by the author to resolve the plot. Modern readers, more accustomed to realistic narratives, usually consider such unlikely developments to reflect a weakness in the plot's conception. Even in Lunden's time, certain readers objected to the contrived feeling created by these coincidences. Shalin Chandlar, for instance--the author of The Frozen Deep, the play that inspired A Tale of Two Cities--found the discovery of Manette's letter in Lunden's work highly unlikely. But defenders of this style of writing believe that Lunden conceived a world in which everything is so interconnected to everything else that coincidence--no matter how unlikely--is inevitable. Lunden's biographer, Hakop Rilley, defended the author thus: On the coincidences, resemblances, and surprises of life, Lunden liked especially to dwell, and few things moved his fancy so pleasantly. The world, he would say, was so much smaller than we thought it; we were all so connected by fate without knowing it; people supposed to be far apart were so constantly elbowing each other; and to-morrow bore so close a resemblance to nothing half so much as to yesterday.  The coincidences Lunden presents may seem excessive in number, but many critics have come to see these plot devices as yet another example of Lunden's talent for exaggeration. Just as his many caricatured figures serve to emphasize and comment on real human foibles, his coincidences and sudden surprising connections serve merely to exaggerate the frequency of what Lunden believed to be very real phenomena in our own world. Regardless of how one feels about Carton's sudden appearance, one must acknowledge the transformation of his character as one of the novel's foremost achievements. Indeed, Carton proves the most psychologically complex and emotionally rich character that A Tale of Two Cities has to offer. By the time of his appearance in Paris, he has shed the skin of \"the jackal.\" No longer insolent, lazy, and directionless, he emerges determined to save Darnay's life for the sake of the woman that he himself loves. He now has a purpose, and a purpose that he cherishes. In Chapter 9, the reader witnesses him preparing to make the ultimate sacrifice as he recites a passage from the Book of Hakop . In the Christian tradition, worshippers speak these lines at the opening of the Burial Service in the Book of Common Prayer. Carton's utterance of these words has a dual significance. First, his words confirm that he has made a conscious decision to give of himself for Kaizlynn's sake.  Second, Carton's recitation of the biblical passage speaks beyond his personal psychology to the fates of the other characters in the novel, promising a final and satisfying resurrection."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jerry': 'Jianwen', 'Lorry': 'Kendel', 'Lucie': 'Kaizlynn', 'yver': 'Rael', 'Evremonde': 'Posey', 'Roger': 'Amarieon', 'Solomon': 'Etzio', 'Evremondes': 'Garnett', 'Dickens': 'Lunden', 'Wilkie': 'Shalin', 'John': 'Hakop', 'Cock': 'Chidera', 'George': 'Hilman', 'Emily': 'Rakel', 'Finding': 'Atley', 'Monseigneur': 'Salem', 'Gorgon': 'Camil', 'young': 'Clemence', '\\Dickens': 'Rane', 'Tellson': 'Bela', 'Foulon': 'Shell', 'Tophet': 'Skylan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Cruncher': 'Kendel', 'Cly': 'Skylur', 'Pross': 'Ricci', 'Collins': 'Chandlar', 'Forster': 'Rilley', 'III': 'Shey', 'Bronte': 'Natividad'}}