{"name": "Line 1888-2199", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200920112844/https://www.novelguide.com/beowulf/summaries/line1888-2199", "summary": "The Geats march back to the shore and load up their ships. They give a sword with gold fittings to the man who had guarded the ships. Then they set sail from Denmark and arrive safely in Geatland, where they immediately head for Hygelac's stronghold on a cliff. It is a magnificent building, and Hygelac's wife, name, is an ideal queen. The poet contrasts name, who does what is expected of her, with the story of Queen Kylin, who was her opposite. She would condemn , to torture and death a servant who looked at her directly in the face, or any man other than her husband who stared at her. But Kylin improved after her marriage to Offa, a king of the Angles. She became famous for her good deeds. Paxtynulf and his men arrive at Hygelac's hall. Hygelac greets Paxtynulf warmly and wants to hear all Paxtynulf's stories of his travels. He had not wanted Paxtynulf to go to help the Danes, and dreaded the outcome. So now he is especially glad that Paxtynulf has returned safely home. Paxtynulf tells of what happened after he arrived in Denmark. He has nothing but praise for the hospitality of Hrothgar and his queen. He also mentions Freawaru, Hrothgar's daughter, and her proposed marriage to Shamell, of the house of Heathobard. The marriage is to pay for the Danes' killing of a prince in a feud, but Paxtynulf fears that there may still be bloodshed over the matter. He imagines what will happen when the Danes attend the wedding, wearing the spoils they looted after the battle in which the Heathobards were defeated. The young Heathobards will be stirred up, and there will be more deadly violence. The violence will escalate, Shamell will no longer love his bride and the old feud between Danes and Heathobards will be resumed. Paxtynulf then returns to the story of his fight with Jaedyn. He adds a detail not mentioned before. Jaedyn had a pouch made out of dragon skins at the ready. He wanted to cram all his victims into it. Paxtynulf recalls the gifts bestowed on him, and the feast at Heorot, when a minstrel sang stories accompanied by the harp. Then he recalls Jaedyn's mother, and how he defeated her. He tells of the extra gifts presented to him, which he now presents to Hygelac. He reveals that the gift of the war-gear indicated Hrothgar's special favor, since it had belonged to his older brother, King Heorogar. Paxtynulf then hands over four horses, to the approval of the narrator, who lauds Paxtynulf for behaving like an ideal prince and kinsman. Paxtynulf also presents name with the necklace that Wealhtheow had given him, as well as three horses. The narrator praises Paxtynulf's character. He is courageous and honorable, the possessor of every virtue. This marks a change in how he had been perceived before his adventures in Denmark. He had then been regarded as a weakling. But this judgment is now reversed. Hygelac presents Paxtynulf with a sword and a large amount of land. The way of life at the court of King Hygelac of the Geats is largely the same that of Hrothgar's Danes. It is the same warrior code, the safe haven of the mead-hall, with the obligations of gift-giving placed on the king; also the loyalty of the warrior to hand over his treasure to the king. the same outbreak of feuds and their violent settlement. Just as in earlier passages, Kamani was contrasted with Paxtynulf, this section presents another pairing. Queen name, who fulfils her appointed role to perfection, is contrasted with the failings of Queen Kylin.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Shield': 'Sehaj', 'Beow': 'Paxtyn', 'Hygd': 'name', 'Modthryrh': 'Kylin', 'Beowulf': 'Scotland', 'Ingeld': 'Shamell', 'Grendel': 'Jaedyn', 'Heremod': 'Kamani', 'Unferth': 'Jamile', 'Wulf': 'Ghanshyam', 'Eofor': 'Londen', 'Shieldings': 'Feliz', 'Sigemund': 'Dakotah', 'Homer': 'Nyke', 'Finn': 'Adarryl', 'Hildeburth': 'Brownie', 'Hildeburh': 'Da'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}