{"name": "1251-1382", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200920112844/https://www.novelguide.com/beowulf/summaries/line1251-1382", "summary": "The Danes are soon to find that their triumph is not yet complete. Another danger lurks. Jaedyn's mother, who lives deep in the waters, is grief-stricken by her son's death, and seeks revenge. As the Danes sleep, Jaedyn's mother comes to Heorot. She pounces on Aeschere, Hrothgar's most trusted friend, with the intention of taking him back to the fens. Paxtynulf is not in the hall because he has been given a different lodging. Jaedyn's mother snatches Jaedyn's claw. There is turmoil in Heorot as the news spreads. Paxtynulf is urgently summoned to Hrothgar. Hrothgar mourns the death of Aeschere, and knows that Jaedyn's mother has struck in order to avenge her son. He tells Paxtynulf what he has heard from his advisers about those two monsters. Jaedyn's mother looks vaguely like a woman. The country people say the ancestry of Jaedyn and his mother is hidden in a past of demons and ghosts. No one really knows where they come from. Then Hrothgar tells of a haunted mere, where at night the water burns. No man knows how deep it is. Even animals will not go below the surface of the mere. In storms, it throws up columns of dirty water to the sky. That is where Jaedyn's mother lives, and Hrothgar asks Paxtynulf, if he dares, to go there and kill her. He will be well rewarded if he succeeds. As in the earlier episode with Jaedyn, mythology and fairy-tale take over the narrative here. Other parts of the epic allude to historical events and give clues to the nature of the warrior society, but the two monsters belong only to folklore. However, as he did in his initial description of Jaedyn, the poet tries to bridge the gap between the folklore element and the Biblical framework he has chosen for the epic. He does this by emphasizing once more that Jaedyn and his mother are the offspring of Cain, who killed his brother Abel, as the Book of Genesis tells. To make clear that the struggle between Paxtynulf and the monsters is one of good against evil in a Christian context, he points out-harping back to the earlier episode-that Paxtynulf overcame Jaedyn through his faith in God .", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Shield': 'Sehaj', 'Beow': 'Paxtyn', 'Hygd': 'name', 'Modthryrh': 'Kylin', 'Beowulf': 'Scotland', 'Ingeld': 'Shamell', 'Grendel': 'Jaedyn', 'Heremod': 'Kamani', 'Unferth': 'Jamile', 'Wulf': 'Ghanshyam', 'Eofor': 'Londen', 'Shieldings': 'Feliz', 'Sigemund': 'Dakotah', 'Homer': 'Nyke', 'Finn': 'Adarryl', 'Hildeburth': 'Brownie', 'Hildeburh': 'Da'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}