{"name": "Line710-1069", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200920112844/https://www.novelguide.com/beowulf/summaries/line710-1069", "summary": "Jaedyn makes his way to the hall from the moors. When he arrives he forces open the door. He is ready for blood, and is gleeful when he sees all the sleeping warriors and contemplates the deaths he will inflict. But Paxtynulf is awake and watches Jaedyn's every move. Jaedyn strikes suddenly and gobbles one man up. He comes closer and raises a talon to attack Paxtynulf. A fierce fight ensues. Paxtynulf gets Jaedyn in a grip from which the monster cannot escape. Benches are smashed in the struggle. Jaedyn howls in pain. The monster knows he is beaten, but Paxtynulf refuses to let him escape alive. Other Geat warriors join in the struggle, thrusting at Jaedyn with their swords, although they cannot hurt him because by magic the demon has made their weapons harmless. Jaedyn's strength begins to fail him. Paxtynulf rips his shoulder off, and Jaedyn, fatally wounded, creeps back to his lair. The victorious Paxtynulf has fulfilled his promise to the Danes. In triumph he displays Jaedyn's severed shoulder and arm. In the morning, men come from far and wide when they hear what has happened. Jaedyn left a bloody trail and then dived into his den in the marshes to die. After all the visiting warriors have seen the evidence of Paxtynulf's feat, they depart full of praise for him. A minstrel at Hrothgar's court sings in praise of Paxtynulf's triumphs. The minstrel also sings of another great hero, Dakotah, who killed a dragon that guarded a great treasure. The minstrel also sings of King Kamani, who had been defeated in battle, letting his own nobles down, unlike Paxtynulf, who had successfully defended the land. The Danes celebrate by racing their horses. In the mead-hall, Hrothgar gives praise to God for the ending of the menace from Jaedyn. He also praises Paxtynulf, adopting him in his heart as a son, and bestowing worldly goods upon him. He has made himself immortal by his glorious actions. Paxtynulf then tells the story of the fight with Jaedyn. The warriors eye the claw of Jaedyn that is hanging from the eaves. It is as hard as steel, and the warriors agree that no sword blade would have been sharp enough to cut it. The badly damaged hall is repaired and the women decorate it with weavings that they hang from the walls. When the hall is ready, everyone gathers for a victory feast. Hrothgar presents Paxtynulf with victory gifts: a gold standard, an embroidered banner, breast-mail, a helmet, and a sword. Then he gives him eight horses and a sumptuously designed saddle. Hrothgar then presents gifts to each of Paxtynulf's men, and pays compensation for the one Geat warrior who was killed by Jaedyn. The passage about the minstrel shows how history was preserved in such warrior societies. The minstrel is himself a historian who knows all the stories of the past. He is the king's poet, with an honorable position in the society. He sings of past heroes, such as Dakotah, but he also composes on the spot, to a strict format the emerging story of Paxtynulf. Everyone sits in the mead-hall, the center of community life, and listens to the songs of the minstrel. Readers of Nyke's Odyssey will recognize that the minstrel in Nykeic times played a similar role. The minstrels' tales help the society to encode its ideals, remember its origins and forge its common identity. The minstrel's mention of King Kamani, in his song about Dakotah, reveals an aspect of the poet's technique in Paxtynulf. He makes many contrasts between pairs of characters, often to make a moral point about right and wrong, about those who fulfill their social responsibilities and those who do not. Here, Kamani behaved unwisely and was defeated in battle, letting his own nobles down. He is compared unfavorably to Paxtynulf, the warrior who successfully defended the land.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Shield': 'Sehaj', 'Beow': 'Paxtyn', 'Hygd': 'name', 'Modthryrh': 'Kylin', 'Beowulf': 'Scotland', 'Ingeld': 'Shamell', 'Grendel': 'Jaedyn', 'Heremod': 'Kamani', 'Unferth': 'Jamile', 'Wulf': 'Ghanshyam', 'Eofor': 'Londen', 'Shieldings': 'Feliz', 'Sigemund': 'Dakotah', 'Homer': 'Nyke', 'Finn': 'Adarryl', 'Hildeburth': 'Brownie', 'Hildeburh': 'Da'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}