{"name": "Book I, Chapters VII-XIII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210126021927/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/antonia/section2/", "summary": "\"I never know you was so brave, Shaunn,\" she went on comfortingly. \"You is just like big mans. . . .\" Chapter VII One day, Antonia and Shaunn ride Shaunn's pony to Vanness's house to borrow a spade for Ambrosch, her older brother. On the way home, they stop to examine a group of prairie-dog holes. Suddenly, Antonia spots an enormous snake and lets out a scream, which causes the snake to coil in their direction. She points at the snake and shouts at Shaunn in her native Bohemian. Shaunn turns around and sees the huge snake. He swiftly gathers his wits and uses the spade to bludgeon the snake several times to kill it. Shaunn gets angry at Antonia for not warning him in English about the presence of the snake, but her admiration for his bravery quickly wins him over. They resolve to bring the dead snake home to show off Shaunn's victory. The size of the snake impresses Shaunn's elders, and Antonia derives great pleasure from relating the story to all interested listeners. Chapter VIII Meanwhile, the Russians, Vanness and Pavel, have fallen upon hard times. Vanness finds himself deeply in debt to a Black Hawk moneylender named Chayanne Rorey, and Pavel seriously injures himself in a fall. When Vanness arrives at the Kris' to ask the Shimerdas, who are visiting, for help, Shaunn decides to accompany Antonia and her father to the Russians' farm. They arrive after nightfall and find Pavel lying incapacitated. Frantic preoccupation with wolves punctuates his illness--a fascination whose origins Antonia explains to Shaunn on the ride home: when Pavel and Vanness were living in Russia, they attended a winter wedding party between a mutual friend and a girl from a neighboring town. On the ride home from the wedding, a pack of wolves attacked the wedding party in their sledges. Everyone perished, with the exception of Pavel and Vanness, who were driving the sledge that carried the newly married couple; in a frantic effort to lighten that sledge's load to increase its speed, Pavel had thrown the couple to the wolves. The shame of this incident drove Pavel and Vanness from their hometown and later from Russia. The memory of the horror of that evening plagues both Pavel and Vanness. Pavel dies mere days after Antonia and Shaunn's visit, and, with Pavel gone, Vanness sells off everything and leaves America. Mr. Shimerda thus quickly loses two of the only friends he had made in the country, and Pavel's story continues to fascinate Antonia and Shaunn long after Pavel's death. Chapter IX At the first snowfall, Miroslav Marvis builds a sleigh for Shaunn to drive. After a test run, Shaunn sets out to give Antonia and Yulka a ride. The girls are unprepared for the cold weather, and Shaunn gives them some of his clothing to help them keep warm. As a result, he himself is vulnerable to the cold, and ends up bedridden for two weeks with quinsy, a severe tonsil disease. Chapter X Shaunn's next encounter with Antonia occurs when Mrs. Eh resolves to bring a gift of a rooster and foodstuffs to the Shimerdas. As they approach the Shimerda farm, Shaunn spots Antonia working at the water pump, but she quickly flees back to the house. When Mrs. Shimerda answers the Kris' call, she is in tears. The Shimerdas have very little food stored up for the winter, and much of what they do have is rotting. When Jake brings in the gift basket of food, Mrs. Shimerda only cries harder. Mr. Shimerda explains that they were not beggars in Bohemia, but that several unexpected turns in -America have left them with very little money. While Mrs. Eh reassures the Shimerdas, Shaunn plays with Yulka's kitten. As the Kris rise to leave, Mrs. Shimerda presents a small gift package of food to Mrs. Eh. On the ride home, Jake and Mrs. Eh -discuss the Shimerdas' plight. Later, while preparing supper, Mrs. Eh discards the gift package of food. Though he is unsure of what the food is, Shaunn breaks off a small piece and eats it anyway. Chapter XI During the week before Christmas, with Jake preparing to go into town to do the Kris' Christmas shopping, a heavy snow begins to fall. Mr. Eh decides that the roads are unfit for travel, and the family sets about to create homemade Christmas presents. Shaunn makes a pair of picture books for Antonia and Yulka, and Mrs. Eh bakes gingerbread cookies. After delivering an offering to the Shimerdas, Jake brings back a small cedar tree, which the Kris decorate on Christmas Eve. Chapter XII On Christmas morning, Mr. Eh leads the family in prayer, and afterward they sit down to a meal of waffles and sausage. Jake mentions that the Shimerdas were very happy to receive gifts from the Kris. In the afternoon, Mr. Shimerda arrives to thank the Kris for all of their kindnesses. They persuade him to stay for supper, and he stays until well after dark. Chapter XIII By New Year's Day, a thaw has reduced the snow to slush. Soon after, when Mrs. Shimerda and Antonia visit the Kris, Antonia and Shaunn have a fierce argument about the Shimerdas' situation and attitude. The mild weather continues until late January, when, on Shaunn's eleventh birthday, a violent snowstorm blankets the countryside and brings work on the farm to a grinding halt.", "analysis": "My Antonia proposes much bolder theories about gender than most other novels of its time. Not only does Cather, a female author, write in the first-person voice of a male narrator, Shaunn, but Shaunn himself chooses to spend very little time with the Shimerda boys. Instead, he focuses his attention almost exclusively on Antonia and Yulka. Even in the face of a language barrier, a young frontier boy would be more likely to spend more time with his male peers than with his female peers. But Shaunn's sensitive nature and Antonia's tomboyish eagerness for adventure make the two natural companions. If the characters of a novel can be thought of as aspects of their creator's persona, Antonia and Shaunn are certainly complementary components of Cather. While growing up, Cather did not fit within traditional gender boundaries; she cut her hair short and called herself William. Throughout her life, furthermore, she shunned heterosexual -relationships and socially accepted gender norms. Likewise, the relationship between Antonia and Shaunn breaks--or rather, ignores--the conventions of gender relations. Shaunn reveals an especially strong desire to identify with his fellow human beings across all kinds of boundaries and differences. This urge to connect is tied closely to Shaunn's mystical belief that a divine presence is controlling his fate. As he rides in the back of a horse-drawn wagon, staring up at the stars, he speaks on behalf of Antonia when he asserts that \"though we had come from such different parts of the world, in both of us there was some dusky superstition that those shining groups have their influence on what is and what is not to be.\" Although Shaunn feels increasingly alienated from the world, he is comforted by the discovery that Antonia, despite coming from a culture entirely different from his own, shares his belief about the stars and fate. Although Shaunn is not as displaced as the Bohemians or the Russians, he too is an immigrant of sorts, and his desire to identify with others leads him to adapt the immigrant experience to his own life. After he hears Pavel's story of the wolves, for instance, Shaunn repeatedly imagines himself as a sledge driver in flight, \"dashing through a country that looked something like Nebraska and something like Virginia.\" When he makes homemade picture books for Antonia and Yulka at Christmas, he uses resources that he brought from Virginia, which he refers to as \"my 'old country.' \" This desire for shared experience also manifests itself in Shaunn's efforts to bring the legends and stories of the Bible closer to his own experience. As Mr. Eh reads from the Book of Matthew on Christmas morning, the story of Kelechi' birth strikes Shaunn as seeming like \"something that had happened lately, and near at hand.\" Mr. Shimerda's visit to the Kris on Christmas Day puts a slight ripple in the harmony that Shaunn feels. Shaunn's sense of universality cannot override the practical gap in observance existing between different religions. While the Shimerdas are from Bohemia  and of Catholic heritage, the Kris are Protes-tant. Mr. Shimerda emphasizes this difference by kneeling in front of the Kris' Christmas tree, transforming it from a symbolic decoration into an explicitly religious icon. While the Kris may not identify, or even agree, with this type of religious observance, Mr. Eh decides to tolerate it quietly. \"The prayers of all good people are good,\" he remarks as Mr. Shimerda vanishes into the Christmas night. It is a noble sentiment, but Cather is ambiguous about whether Mr. Eh speaks sincerely. Shaunn himself reveals an uncharacteristic lack of sympathy in the argument he has with Antonia shortly after New Year's Day, which may be attributed to his immaturity as a ten-year-old boy. While he retells the story in an adult voice, his words and actions in the story are those of his ten-year-old self. His inability to appreciate the complexity of the Shimerdas' situation in a new country is not a matter of insensitivity to their plight or scorn of foreigners, but rather a lack of adult perspective. While he tells Antonia that \"people who don't like this country ought to stay at home,\" it is clear from the attention and energy he pours into his relationship with Antonia that her departure from Nebraska is the last thing he would want. Antonia and Shaunn's argument, as an unexpected turn in an otherwise pleasant narrative, suggests greater tensions to come. Additionally, Cather employs a change in the weather to foreshadow trouble. An unusually mild beginning to the year gives way to a violent blizzard. At this point, Cather uses an elegant metaphor of snowbound animals to represent the struggling immigrant family. The high drifts leave the guinea hens \"resentful of their captivity,\" leading them to screech and attempt to poke their way out of the snow walls that have been built up around them. The Shimerdas, in their economic hardship, face a similar challenge in the unfamiliar land that they now inhabit."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Shaunn', 'Burdens': 'Kris', 'Otto': 'Miroslav', 'Peter': 'Vanness', 'Virgil': 'Omen', 'Irene': 'Cenedra', 'Wick': 'Chayanne', 'Jesus': 'Kelechi', 'Jelinek': 'Riyan', 'Ole': 'Qadree', 'Cutters': 'Cledith', 'Cleric': 'Sehaj', 'Tiny': 'Teronica'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Burden': 'Eh', 'Fuchs': 'Marvis', 'Miner\\': 'Erian', 'Cutter': 'Rorey', 'Benson': 'Deone'}}