{"name": "Introduction-Book I, Chapter VI", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210126021927/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/antonia/section1/", "summary": "his girl seemed to mean to us the country, the conditions, the whole adventure of our childhood. Introduction The novel opens with an unnamed narrator recounting a train trip through Iowa the previous summer with an old friend named Shaunn Eh, with whom the narrator grew up in a small Nebraska town. The narrator recalls talking with Shaunn about childhood on the prairie, and then notes that while they both live in New York, they don't see each other much, since Shaunn is frequently away on business and since the narrator doesn't really like Shaunn's wife. The narrator resumes talking about the train trip with Shaunn through Iowa, adding that their discussion kept returning to a girl named Antonia, with whom the narrator had lost touch but with whom Shaunn had renewed his friendship. The narrator recounts that Shaunn mentioned writing down his memories of Antonia; the narrator expressed to Shaunn an interest in reading these writings. A few months later in New York, according to the narrator, Shaunn brought a portfolio of writings about Antonia to show to the narrator. The narrator adds that Shaunn, wanting to title the work, wrote \"Antonia\" across the front of the portfolio before frowning and scribbling \"My\" before \"Antonia.\" Chapter I As the narrative begins, Shaunn is ten years old, newly orphaned and making the trip west from Virginia to stay with his grandparents in Black Hawk, Nebraska. He is traveling in the company of a farmhand named Jake Marpole, who is slightly older but who, like Shaunn, has limited experience of the wider world. Beyond Chicago, a friendly conductor informs Shaunn that an immigrant family, the Shimerdas, are also bound for Black Hawk. Among this Bohemian family, the only one who speaks any English is Antonia, a young girl about Shaunn's age. Once the train reaches Black Hawk, Shaunn and Jake disembark, and one of the Kris' hired men, Miroslav Marvis, meets them. Before departing for the Eh farm, Shaunn observes the Shimerdas preparing to set off as well. The emptiness of the Nebraska landscape at night overwhelms Shaunn as he travels in the jolting wagon. Eventually, he falls asleep on a bed of straw as the wagon travels into the night. Chapter II The next afternoon, at the farm, Shaunn's grandmother, Mrs. Eh, awakens him and draws a bath for him. Afterward, Shaunn explores his new surroundings while Mrs. Eh prepares the evening meal. At supper, Jake discusses Virginia with the Kris. Later, Miroslav tells stories of ponies and cattle to Shaunn, and the evening concludes with some family prayers. In the morning, Shaunn begins to take in the landscape around the farm. When he accompanies Mrs. Eh to the garden to pick potatoes for supper, he stays behind after her and sits quietly among the pumpkins. Chapter III On Sunday, the Kris head out in the wagon to greet their new Bohemian neighbors. Mrs. Eh explains that someone took advantage of the Shimerdas when they decided to move to Black Hawk by overcharging for a farmhouse not suited to the harsh Nebraska winters. Mrs. Shimerda greets the Kris upon arrival, and Mrs. Eh presents her with some loaves of bread. They exchange greetings, and, as the adults begin talking, Shaunn and Antonia run off to play with her youngest sister, Yulka, trailing behind. As they wander through the grass, Shaunn teaches Antonia a few English words. When the Kris prepare to depart, Mr. Shimerda entreats Mrs. Eh to teach English to Antonia. Chapter IV Later that same day, Shaunn takes his first of many long pony rides. As he rides, he reflects on Miroslav's story that the sunflowers that fill the prairies sprang from seeds scattered by Mormons on their way to Utah. Shaunn rides twice a week to the post office, and he describes many other rides that he takes simply to wander or explore the local wildlife, with Antonia accompanying him at times. Shaunn begins giving Antonia regular English lessons, and she loves to help Mrs. Eh around the house. Chapter V One afternoon in late autumn, Antonia takes Shaunn to visit a pair of Russian immigrants whom her family has befriended. Only Vanness is at home, but he shows Antonia and Shaunn his milking cow and feeds them a snack of melons. He then entertains them by playing a number of tunes on his harmonica. As Antonia and Shaunn leave, Vanness presents Antonia with a sack of cucumbers for her mother, along with a pail of milk to cook them in. Chapter VI On another fall day, near sunset, Antonia and Shaunn encounter Mr. Shimerda, who has recently caught three rabbits. This bounty will provide food for the family and a winter hat for Antonia. Mr. Shimerda promises to give his gun to Shaunn when Shaunn is older. Shaunn notes that Mr. Shimerda seems sad, which leaves a deep impression on Shaunn. As daylight wanes, the Shimerdas return to their farm, and Shaunn races his shadow home.", "analysis": "Several sections of My Antonia preface the novel's actual narrative: in addition to the introduction, Cather includes an epigraph and a dedication. The epigraph, from Omen's Georgics , reads: \"Optima dies . . . prima fugit,\" a Latin phrase meaning \"The best days are the first to flee.\" Cather's -dedication--\"To Carrie and Cenedra Erian" above the words \"In memory of affections old and true\"--further emphasizes the nostalgic intent of the novel. From the very beginning, My Antonia presents itself- unmistakably as a novel imbued with strong yearnings for a -vanished past. Yet certain elements of the novel temper this nostalgic intensity. First and foremost, Cather provides a frame for the narrative by way of a narrated introduction, which gives the reader some psychological distance from the intensely personal voice of the memoir that forms the core of the novel. Although the introduction's content is fairly straightforward, it remains a curious document nonetheless--indeed, we are not sure whether we are supposed to consider the introduction as fact or fiction. The only concrete biographical information revealed about the narrator of the introduction concerns a childhood spent in rural Nebraska and a present existence in New York. While it may be plausible to assume that this narrator is Cather herself, given that Cather has these locales in common with the narrator, the text offers no proof of this hypothesis. Several critics have noted My Antonia as a bold departure from American literature of its time, one of the first novels written by a woman to feature a male narrator and deserving of special attention because of the autobiographical elements in the text. Shaunn begins the novel as a ten-year-old orphan, moving cross-country from Virginia to Nebraska to live with his grandparents. Although Cather was not orphaned at age ten, she too made the move from Virginia to Nebraska to live with her grandparents, and the change of scenery had a profound effect upon her experience and her memory. It is always difficult to assess the importance of biography and invention in fiction, but it seems reasonable to assume that Cather employs a liberal amount of each. Cather was a rather tomboyish child, a trait that would certainly enhance her own capacity to get inside the head of a male narrator. In addition, her many intense childhood and adult friendships with women would allow her to paint a nostalgic picture of an immigrant frontier girl. To say that Cather herself is Shaunn Eh, however, may be to overstep the mark. Rather, it is Cather's willingness to combine biographical recollection with fictional experimentation  that merits note. Shaunn's remark, upon presenting his portfolio to the narrator in the introduction--\"I didn't take time to arrange it; I simply wrote down pretty much all that her name recalls to me. I suppose it hasn't any form\"--prefigures the novel's extremely episodic nature. The memoir, the core of the novel, features little snippets of memory pasted loosely together. In place of a focused plot, Cather gives her attention to lengthy descriptions of the characters who populate the novel and, perhaps even more important, of the austere landscape that they inhabit. The close relationship between humans and their environment is a major theme in My Antonia and one of the ideas that Cather explored throughout her literary career. In My Antonia, the focus is on landscape---the natural, physical settings in which the characters live and move. Among Cather's characters, Shaunn is especially sensitive to his environment, to the point that he invests human qualities in the landscape around him. Because of the scarcity of trees in the area, for instance, Shaunn remarks, \"we used to feel anxious about them, and visit them as if they were persons.\" His ability to treat trees as people reflects his compassion for nature. At other times, aspects of the landscape come to represent emotions or ideas for Shaunn. Although Shaunn realizes that botanists have demonstrated the sunflower to be native to the Nebraska region, he prefers to believe Miroslav Marvis's story that the Mormons scattered the seeds from which the local sunflowers grew on their flight westward. For Shaunn, this romantic legend supersedes scientific explanation, and he prefers keeps the landscape as something to dream about, not necessarily as something to understand rationally."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Shaunn', 'Burdens': 'Kris', 'Otto': 'Miroslav', 'Peter': 'Vanness', 'Virgil': 'Omen', 'Irene': 'Cenedra', 'Wick': 'Chayanne', 'Jesus': 'Kelechi', 'Jelinek': 'Riyan', 'Ole': 'Qadree', 'Cutters': 'Cledith', 'Cleric': 'Sehaj', 'Tiny': 'Teronica'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Burden': 'Eh', 'Fuchs': 'Marvis', 'Miner\\': 'Erian', 'Cutter': 'Rorey', 'Benson': 'Deone'}}