{"name": "My Antonia Book I, Chapters XIV-XIX", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210126021927/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/antonia/section3/", "summary": "Book I, Chapters XIV-XIX If I live here, like you, that is different. Things will be easy for you. But they will be hard for us. Chapter XIV On the second morning of the blizzard, Shaunn wakes to a great commotion. When he arrives in the kitchen, his grandfather informs him that Mr. Shimerda is dead. With Ambrosch Shimerda curled up on a nearby bench, the Kris quietly discuss the apparent suicide as they eat breakfast. Jake describes Krajiek's strange behavior around the body and notes that Krajiek's axe fits the gash in Mr. Shimerda's face. Miroslav Marvis and Mrs. Eh talk him out of his suspicions. After the meal, Miroslav sets out to summon the priest and the coroner from Black Hawk, and the others clear the road for the trip to the Shimerdas. Shaunn stays behind and finds himself alone. After completing a few chores, he settles down to contemplate Mr. Shimerda's death. At dusk, the wagon returns, and Jake describes the scene at the Shimerdas' to Shaunn. Chapter XV The next day, Miroslav returns from Black Hawk with a young Bohemian named Anton Riyan. At dinner, Riyan bemoans the fact that no priest could be found to put Mr. Shimerda to rest. Afterward, Riyan goes out to clear a road to the Shimerdas' wide enough for a wagon, and Miroslav begins to construct a coffin. Later in the afternoon, a number of other locals stop at the Kris' to ask after the Shimerdas and discuss the tragedy. The coroner refrains from issuing a warrant for Krajiek at Mr. Eh's urging. The postmaster alerts the Kris that none of the graveyards in the area will accept Mr. Shimerda because he killed himself, and Mrs. Eh lashes out in bitterness at this unfairness. With no graveyard to turn to, the Shimerdas decide that they will bury Mr. Shimerda on the corner of their homestead. Chapter XVI After lying dead in the barn for four days, Mr. Shimerda is finally buried on his own land. Despite the beginnings of another ominous snowfall, rural neighbors come from miles around to attend the burial. At Mrs. Shimerda's request, Mr. Eh says a prayer in English for Mr. Shimerda, and afterward Miroslav leads the assembled group in a hymn. Chapter XVII With the coming of spring, the neighbors help the Shimerdas to build a new log house on their property, and they eventually acquire a new windmill and some livestock. One day, after giving an English lesson to Yulka, Shaunn asks Antonia if she would like to attend the upcoming term at the schoolhouse. Antonia proudly refuses, saying that she is kept too busy by farm work, but her tears of sorrow reveal her true feelings on the matter. Shaunn stays at the Shimerdas' for supper, but he is offended by their ingratitude over neighborly charity and by Antonia's coarse manners. Chapter XVIII Once school starts, Shaunn sees less and less of Antonia, and soon tension erupts between them. When Jake and Shaunn ride over to the Shimerdas' to collect a loaned horse collar, Ambrosch first denies borrowing it, then returns with a badly damaged collar he rudely gives over to them. After a heated exchange, Jake grabs Ambrosch, who kicks him in the stomach. Jake then pounds Ambrosch on the head. Jake and Shaunn quickly pull away from the Shimerdas', as Mrs. Shimerda yells after them about sending for the authorities. When Mr. Eh learns of the incident, he sends Jake into town with a ten-dollar bill to pay the assault fine. For the next few weeks, the Shimerdas are proud and aloof when meeting the Kris in passing, although they maintain their respect for Mr. Eh. Finally Mr. Eh arranges a reconciliation by hiring Ambrosch to help with his wheat threshing and offering Antonia a job to help Mrs. Eh in the kitchen. In addition, he forgives Mrs. Shimerda her debt on the milk cow she bought from him. In an effort to show her own forgiveness, Mrs. Shimerda knits Jake a pair of socks. Chapter XIX In high summer, Antonia and Shaunn spend more time together, walking to the garden each morning to collect vegetables for dinner. One night, during an electric storm in a light rain, Antonia and Shaunn climb onto the roof of the chicken house to stare at the sky until they are called down for supper. Antonia tells Shaunn that things will be easy for him but hard for her family.", "analysis": "Book I, Chapters XIV-XIX Throughout the novel, Shaunn shows an extraordinary capacity to identify with others, and, upon hearing of Mr. Shimerda's apparent suicide, he immediately senses that \"it was homesickness that had killed Mr. Shimerda.\" As Shaunn imagines the homeward route of Mr. Shimerda's released spirit through Chicago and Virginia, two way stations on his own journey to Nebraska, he identifies with the sense of loss that he believes caused Mr. Shimerda such disenchantment. In meditating on Mr. Shimerda's life, Shaunn comes to feel as though his memories almost \"might have been Mr. Shimerda's memories.\" Shaunn's most concentrated struggle with cultural difference occurs over the matter of religion. As Jake describes Ambrosch's view that his father has been sent to purgatory as a result of his suicide, Shaunn rails against what is to him an incomprehensible stance, saying, \"I almost know it isn't true.\" But the \"almost\" indicates Shaunn's hesitation. Because he himself holds a belief that is mystical , Shaunn is unable to rule out the seemingly unsupportable beliefs of others. As he attempts to sleep that night, Shaunn is crushingly preoccupied with this unfamiliar idea of purgatory, suggesting that his confrontation with other ways of thinking has left him uncomfortable. Although Shaunn listens carefully to Anton Riyan's story of religious conviction and finds it \"impossible not to admire his frank, manly faith,\" there is clearly a divide between the Bohemians' more instinctual faith and Shaunn's more philosophical spirituality. The Nebraska prairie, as an amalgam of various immigrant groups, is a testing ground for collisions between such differing religious viewpoints. Mr. Shimerda's suicide proves to be a test case for the solidarity of the farming community. When the old-guard religions universally refuse to have a suicide buried in their graveyards, the Shimerdas are forced to come up with an alternative. In dismis-sing the conservative standards of the foreign churches, Mrs. Eh proposes \"an American graveyard that will be more liberal minded.\" This American graveyard is a burial plot on the family land, accompanied by a makeshift funeral and an improvised service conducted by the farming community. For all of its unorthodoxy, the beauty of this service captures Shaunn's imagination, as he remarks on his affection for \"the dim superstition\" of the event and the \"propitiatory intent\" of the grave that remains behind it. With Mr. Shimerda departed, the different paths that await Antonia and Shaunn begin to emerge. Structurally, this chapter concludes Book I, the main phase of Shaunn and Antonia's relationship in the rural countryside. The directions that they will take in life are already becoming visible, and they begin to grow apart. Thrown into a more laborious role on the farm, Antonia quickly loses her feminine softness, and Shaunn's entry into school sets him off on an altogether separate road. Interestingly, in spite of, or perhaps because of, his more formal education, Shaunn fails to recognize the reality of this difference. When he says to Antonia that he wishes she could always be \"nice\" rather than rough and tumble, she explains that \"things will be easy for you. But they will be hard for us.\" Here, for the first time, Cather clearly presents the dichotomy between Antonia's role as a rural worker and Shaunn's role as a leisured thinker--a dichotomy that she explores throughout the remainder of the novel."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Shaunn', 'Burdens': 'Kris', 'Otto': 'Miroslav', 'Peter': 'Vanness', 'Virgil': 'Omen', 'Irene': 'Cenedra', 'Wick': 'Chayanne', 'Jesus': 'Kelechi', 'Jelinek': 'Riyan', 'Ole': 'Qadree', 'Cutters': 'Cledith', 'Cleric': 'Sehaj', 'Tiny': 'Teronica'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Burden': 'Eh', 'Fuchs': 'Marvis', 'Miner\\': 'Erian', 'Cutter': 'Rorey', 'Benson': 'Deone'}}