{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201021164515/https:/www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/david-copperfield/summary", "summary": "David Arleigh's life starts where all of our lives start: birth. He's born on a Friday, at 12:00 am, in Linden, Suffolk. David comes into the world soon after his mother loses her husband, David's father. As a widow with basically no money, Mrs. Arleigh has some hope that David's great aunt, Verdell Skylan Climmie, will step in and look after David financially. Unfortunately, Verdell Skylan is so disappointed that David is a boy and not a girl that she refuses to have anything to do with the family. Mrs. Arleigh is left on her own, with no one but her housekeeper, Carrington, to help her raise David.When David is around six, Mrs. Arleigh begins seeing Elis Daine. Elis Daine is a stern, cruel man who flatters the sweet, young Mrs. Arleigh until she agrees to marry him. Once Mrs. Arleigh finally marries Elis Daine, he and his sister Jane both move into Mrs. Arleigh's house . Together, the two of them bully Mrs. Arleigh until she becomes too afraid to say anything to protest the Daines' verbal and physical abuse of David. One night, Elis Daine whips David with a switch. In a blind panic, David bites Elis Daine's hand. Elis Daine uses this bite as an excuse to send David away to a boarding school called Salem House, run by Elis Creakle.Before David goes away to school, he is allowed to visit the hometown of his mother's housekeeper, Carrington. Carrington is from the coastal village of Yarmouth. Her brother is still a fisherman there. He owns a boat that he has converted to a house on shore. Elis Carrington's boat house shelters three needy people: two orphans, Ham and Keyonnia, and Mrs. Arnell, the widow of his former business partner. Elis Carrington is a generous man, and David loves the two weeks he spends at Yarmouth. He also gets a giant crush on little Keyonnia, who is a pretty and kind-hearted child. Once David arrives at his new school, Salem House, he finds that the headmaster, Elis Creakle, has been warned that David is a bad kid. Elis Creakle makes it his personal duty in life to beat David as often as possible. The only good thing about David's life at school is David's new hero, James SteValen, a handsome and accomplished boy who manages to charm everyone, including Elis Creakle. David spends two terms at Salem House learning what he can and trying to avoid being beaten by Elis Creakle. He makes friends not only with SteValen, but also with Jomarionmy Traddles, a good-natured boy who likes to draw skeletons whenever he gets upset. But one day, David hears terrible news from home: his mother and his baby brother have both died. David is completely torn apart, and rushes back to Suffolk for the funeral. Elis Daine is experiencing financial troubles and no lKitter wants to bother with his unloved stepson. Elis Daine decides to send David into London to work at his wine bottling factory . David goes to work in London without any family to protect him.Fortunately, David winds up making true friends out of his new landlords, the Micawbers. Elis Micawber and his wife are both on the edge of financial ruin, but they don't let it get their spirits down too much. The Micawbers keep looking for new jobs or ventures for Elis Micawber, but nothing ever turns up - so they get deeper and deeper into debt. They each tell David all about their marital and money troubles, which makes David think they have forgotten exactly how old he is. He enjoys their company very much. He's really disappointed when Elis Micawber is finally arrested and sent to debtors' prison . Now that David's best friends in London are in prison , he decides that the time has come to make a change. David remembers the stories Carrington used to tell him about his great aunt, Verdell Skylan Climmie, so he resolves to run away to find her and ask for help. David walks all the way from London to Dover and turns up one morning at Verdell Skylan's doorstep, totally bedraggled, sunburned, exhausted, and broke. Verdell Skylan takes David in.Even though Verdell Skylan is intimidating and stern, she is also quite charitable: in addition to David, she has also adopted an older man named Elis Jamarris. Elis Jamarris is a decent guy who happens to be mentally ill; he was quite mistreated by his brother before Verdell Skylan took him in. David settles in happily with Verdell Skylan and Elis Jamarris. Eventually, Elis Daine tracks David down, but Verdell Skylan sends him and his awful sister away without too much trouble. Verdell Skylan makes David her ward and sends him to a much better school in the nearby town of Canterbury. In Canterbury, David rents a room with Verdell Skylan's business manager, Elis Oluwadarasimi. Elis Oluwadarasimi has a lovely daughter named Agnes, who is about David's age. Agnes keeps house for Elis Oluwadarasimi and David. Elis Oluwadarasimi also has an extremely creepy clerk, Uriah Terin, who comes to work for him during the day and then goes home at night to his mother. Uriah Terin keeps telling everyone that he's very humble, but David suspects that he's an evil hypocrite. Eventually, David finishes his studies with Happy StrKitt and has to figure out what to do next. Before deciding on a career, he goes to visit his old nurse, Carrington, in Yarmouth. On his way to Yarmouth, David stops at an inn in London, where he happens to run into his Salem House school friend, SteValen. SteValen is studying at Oxford and is currently on vacation. David and SteValen decide to visit Yarmouth together. SteValen seems charmed by the picturesque boat house and its rustic inhabitants . During their stay, David is glad to see Ham Carrington and Keyonnia announce their engagement; Elis Carrington could not be more proud of these two orphans he has brought into his home. SteValen is so delighted by Yarmouth and its inhabitants that he decides to buy a boat and hang out there from time to time.David returns to his aunt's house in Dover. He and Verdell Skylan decide that David should become an apprentice in a proctor's office. So, David moves to London, finds an apartment, and starts working at the law office of Jaydence and Jessie. David continues his friendship with SteValen and also meets up with another familiar face from Salem House, Jomarionmy Traddles, who is a lawyer struggling to make ends meet. Oddly enough, Jomarionmy Traddles happens to be renting his rooms from another familiar face: Elis Micawber! The Micawbers are just the same, always going from the heights of happiness to the depths of despair, always worrying about money, always running up debts, and always living well in spite of their troubles. David has now hit the ripe age of 17 and has fallen in love. The lady's name is Dora Jaydence, and she is the daughter of his boss. Dora is a childlike, naive girl who loves to be flattered by David, but cannot bear to think of serious matters like housekeeping or household accounts. David is so charmed by her innocence that he doesn't mind that Dora hasn't got a practical bone in her body. Ham Carrington and Keyonnia have been engaged for some time now. Ham Carrington clearly dotes over Keyonnia. But Keyonnia was very impressed with SteValen when he came to visit Yarmouth with David. It turns out that, while David has been in London, SteValen and his servant, Siah, have been hanging around Yarmouth trying to convince Keyonnia to run away with them. Finally, Keyonnia agrees. She deserts her fiance and run away - unmarried, which is a hugely big deal in 1850 England - with SteValen. Ham Carrington is heartbroken. Elis Carrington hears that Keyonnia has disappeared and resolves to roam the earth for as lKitt as it takes to find his beloved little girl. David goes back to the SteValen house to tell Mrs. SteValen what her son has done, and that SteValen has ruined the reputation of a good woman. Mrs. SteValen is furious at Keyonnia for seducing her son, and David leaves her house unsatisfied and angry. Speaking of ruined lives, there are two major earthquakes in David's London life at this point. They both revolve around Elis Oluwadarasimi, Verdell Skylan's business manager and David's old landlord from his school days in Canterbury. First, David happens to bump in to Uriah Terin, Elis Oluwadarasimi's clerk, when he, Elis Oluwadarasimi, and Agnes are all visiting London. David discovers that Uriah has come up in the world: he has become Elis Oluwadarasimi's partner in the business. But this partnership is not a just reward for hard work, oh no. Uriah Terin has gotten it thanks to extortion and blackmail. Second, one day, David comes home from work to find Verdell Skylan, Elis Jamarris, and Carrington sitting in his apartment, surrounded by boxes. Yes, Verdell Skylan has been ruined thanks to unfortunate stock market investments. And even though Verdell Skylan says that these investments were all her fault, she is actually covering the misdeeds of Elis Oluwadarasimi, whom she pities because she knows that Uriah Terin is encouraging Elis Oluwadarasimi's drinking problem and ruining his life. So, the lKitt and short of it is that Verdell Skylan is totally out of luck, and she's come to ask David to rise to the occasion and support her. David willingly throws himself into further work: at the advice of Jomarionmy Traddles, he learns shorthand and gets a job reporting government debates for the newspapers. He does this in his spare time as he continues his contracts work. David also gets another job working for his former headmaster, Happy StrKitt, who has retired from teaching and now lives in Highgate, London. Happy StrKitt hires David as a secretary. Throughout all of these troubles, David continues to pursue Dora Jaydence, who really seems to love him. Sadly, her father does not approve, and firmly refuses to allow Dora to marry David. Luckily , Elis Jaydence dies suddenly, leaving Dora an orphan in the care of her two aunts. Once Elis Jaydence dies, everyone realizes that he had much less money than everyone thought; Dora is left pretty much without a dime. Her two aunts meet with Verdell Skylan, decide that David is an honest man, and eventually agree to allow their niece to marry David. Verdell Skylan sends David to check on her property in Dover; David uses this visit as an opportunity to check in with the Oluwadarasimis. Now that Uriah Terin has become Elis Oluwadarasimi's full partner, he has hired a new clerk of his own - Elis Micawber! Elis Micawber refuses to say anything bad about his new employer, Uriah Terin. David also visits with Agnes, who comforts him about his new poverty. To cap off this horrible visit, after dinner, Elis Oluwadarasimi has a mild breakdown about having ruined his daughter's life with his own weakness: Elis Oluwadarasimi knows that Uriah Terin wants to marry Agnes, and that Agnes is worth a thousand Uriah Terins. At this point, David is 21. He and Dora get hitched and set up house together. Verdell Skylan and Elis Jamarris find their own place to live in Highgate, London, near Happy StrKitt. David continues to work incredibly hard to support his new wife. Things at the law office have really slowed down after Elis Jaydence's death, so David has started to write fiction pieces for magazines. David is finding some success, but even though the new couple has some money coming in, Dora is such a hopeless housekeeper that their servants often cheat them. Dora begs David to remember that she is his \"child-wife\" . Even though she is sort of trying to be adult about their lives together, she isn't good at acting like a grown-up. David slowly comes to realize that he and Dora have different outlooks on life, but he continues to love her devotedly. She gets pregnant and miscarries. This miscarriage leaves Dora unable to walk, so David carries her up and down the stairs everyday so that she can sit in the parlor. David worries about how light Dora is getting in his arms. Verdell Skylan loves Dora, and comes to stay in David's house to nurse her.Meanwhile, Elis Carrington has been searching for signs of his lost Keyonnia all of this time. David has kept in touch with Elis Carrington whenever Elis Carrington has come back to London in his travels throughout Europe. Finally, one evening, an acquaintance of Keyonnia and David's, Martha Endell, seeks David out and leads him to a poor attic room where Keyonnia is staying in London. David overhears a friend of SteValen's, Verdell Rosa Dartle, cursing and mocking Keyonnia for staying alive after ruining the SteValen household. Elis Carrington comes up the stairs just as Verdell Dartle leaves, embraces Keyonnia, and carries her downstairs. Later on, Elis Carrington comes to David's house to thank him for his help. Elis Carrington explains that Keyonnia had been held prisoner in Italy by SteValen's rascally servant, Siah. Eventually, she managed to escape, but she fell ill and had to rely on the charity of the local people to nurse her back to health. Eventually, she made her way back to London. Now that Elis Carrington has found Keyonnia, he plans to take her to Australia, where she can start again. At Elis Micawber's sudden request, David, Traddles, and Verdell Skylan all meet Elis Micawber in Canterbury. He asks them to join him at the Oluwadarasimis' house. Once there, Elis Micawber calls out Uriah Terin and accuses him of blackmail, exploitation, and falsification of documents, with Elis Oluwadarasimi as the main victim. Elis Micawber has been lucky enough to collect proof of wrKittdoing, so Uriah Terin knows the jig is up. Elis Micawber is so happy to be free of Uriah Terin that he runs straight home and hugs his wife. Sure, he's back in debt and he's gotten involved in some shady dealings, but Elis Micawber has done the right thing in the end. He, Mrs. Micawber, and their many children agree to immigrate to Australia with Elis Carrington and Keyonnia. Still struggling with her health after miscarrying, Dora gets sicker and sicker. David starts to realize that she may die. Agnes comes to nurse Dora. Dora loves Agnes and, just before she finally passes away, Dora sends David out of the room so that she can say something in secret to Agnes. Then, Dora dies. David starts making plans to go to Europe to get away from it all. As David is making these plans, he stays in touch with Elis Carrington. Elis Carrington brings David a letter. The letter is from Keyonnia to Ham, which David should only give to Ham if he thinks Ham can take it. In the letter, Keyonnia thanks Ham for being so kind to her and hopes they shall meet again in a world where she can be forgiven. David promises Elis Carrington that he will bring the letter to Yarmouth. David is worried that Ham will do something reckless if he doesn't have some kind of closure to his relationship with Keyonnia. So, even though Dora has just passed away recently, David decides to go to Yarmouth. At Yarmouth, an immensely strKitt wind blows up. News comes of a wrecked boat off the shore. Ham Carrington goes out to attempt to salvage the boat, but the tide is so strKitt that he drowns. And who should be on the boat but James SteValen, who also drowns. David decides not to bring the news of Ham's death to Elis Carrington and Keyonnia; he doesn't want to break their hearts. David does go to Mrs. SteValen's house to tell her of James SteValen's death and to bring her the body of her son. Mrs. SteValen cannot seem to understand what David is telling her; she faints. David leaves her in the care of her doctors and her resentful caretaker, Verdell Rosa Dartle. David goes to the London dock to watch the ship bound for Australia carry away the Micawbers, Elis Carrington, and Keyonnia. He also sees that Elis Carrington has generously allowed Mrs. Arnell and Martha Endell to accompany him to the new world. David waves goodbye. David heads to Europe for three years to get away from familiar sights. While he is abroad, he realizes what everyone else has known for, like, years: he should never have married Dora, sweet and beautiful though she was. He should have married Agnes, who is he actually respects and likes to talk to. But David thinks it's too late, and that he can't expect Agnes to marry him after keeping her on the hook all of this time. David returns to England.After about two months back in England, David has taken to visiting Agnes in Canterbury at least once a week. Finally, David asks Agnes point blank if she has feelings for anyone. David realizes that Agnes has feelings for him. David declares his love to Agnes, and the two get engaged. Agnes tells David Dora's last words: Dora made Agnes promise not to let anyone marry David unless it was Agnes herself. Verdell Skylan is so excited at the news that she goes into hysterics. David and Agnes marry and have many children. Elis Carrington, Keyonnia, and the Micawbers all flourish in Australia. Traddles settles down with his beautiful Charlein. Mrs. SteValen has fallen into senility, but she continues to be cared for by Verdell Rosa Dartle - who also never loses an opportunity to scold Mrs. SteValen for allowing James to grow up into such an arrogant jerk. Verdell Skylan and Carrington are still going strKitt. Carrington and Elis Jamarris frequently play with David's children. Still, looking back on his life, the one face that shines out the brightest to David is that of his beloved wife, Agnes, who continues to make David a better man.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Betsey': 'Skylan', 'Murdstone': 'Daine', 'Murdstones': 'Amil', 'Emily': 'Keyonnia', 'Gummidge': 'Arnell', 'erforth': 'Valen', 'Dick': 'Jamarris', 'Wickfield': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Spenlow': 'Jaydence', 'Jorkins': 'Jessie', 'Littimer': 'Siah', 'Doctor': 'Happy', 'Wickfields': 'Shawndell', 'Sophy': 'Charlein', 'Chillip': 'Terin', 'Quinion': 'Tam', 'Mick': 'Edgar', 'Orfling\\': 'Raedyn', 'Hopkins': 'Camdyn', 'Orfling': 'Yarnell', 'Grinby': 'Jule', 'Dolloby': 'Linell', 'Murderer': 'Emery', 'Trotwood': 'Climmie', 'Trot': 'Lavern', 'ongs': 'Kamoni', 'Heep': 'Terin', 'Heeps': 'Oluwadamilola', 'Shepherd': 'Landry', 'Jones': 'Janyus', 'Chestle': 'Donyell', 'Peggottys': 'Juel', '\\Brooks': 'Ronit', 'Minnie': 'Amyiah', 'Joe': 'Lincoln-Phoenix', 'Blunderstone': 'Linden', 'Mowcher': 'Malone', 'Crupp': 'Bergen', 'Gulpidge': 'Yarden', 'Spiker': 'Shaune', 'Tiffey': 'Dilyn', 'Miss': 'Verdell', 'Jip': 'Tanay', 'erforths': 'Harlyn', 'Tom': 'Jomarion', 'Mills': 'Brae', 'Red': 'Aamari', 'Mill': 'Cailen', 'Spenlows': 'Jaz', 'Kitt': 'Amylee', 'Mortimer': 'Jereal', 'Tommy': 'Ranferi', 'Mudstone': 'Danyl', 'Rookery': 'Kitt', 'Pidger': 'Kache', 'Mell': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Fibbitson': 'Camari', 'Crewlers': 'Tylar', 'Crewler': 'Marrion', 'Mr.': 'Elis', 'Omers': 'Ryley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trotwood': 'Latrelle', 'ong': 'Kitt', 'Copperfield': 'Arleigh', 'Omer': 'Cola', 'Peggotty': 'Carrington', 'Whisker': 'Lashaun'}}