{"name": "Chapter 52", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200929182814/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/david-copperfield/summary/chapter-52", "summary": "The day that David is supposed to go and meet Elis Micawber, he doesn't want to leave Dora. She's not doing very well. But Dora won't hear of David staying behind, so finally she convinces both David and Verdell Skylan to go to Canterbury. Dora is excited because they'll come back with so much news. So, the upshot is that Elis Jamarris, Verdell Skylan, David, and Traddles all go to Canterbury that very night. David walks around the town revisiting old sights. He sees the butcher who he used to fight so often, who now seems like a peaceful fellow with a baby. David returns to the inn and they all sit waiting eagerly for Elis Micawber. Elis Micawber arrives and warns the group that they shall soon have an explosion. Micawber has been corresponding with Traddles, who has advised him how to go forward. He asks the assembled company to present themselves at the Oluwadarasimi house in about five minutes. Elis Micawber won't say anything more, and Traddles refuses to explain. After five minutes, the group of four heads over to the Oluwadarasimi house. They find Elis Micawber at his desk. They greet Elis Micawber, all the while pretending that they haven't seen him five minutes ago. Elis Micawber announces them to Uriah Terin. Uriah Terin seems absolutely astonished to see them all, but he greets them humbly, as usual. Uriah tells Elis Micawber to inform Mrs. Terin and Agnes that they have guests. Terin explains that he's fairly busy at present, what with having to pick up Elis Oluwadarasimi's slack. Traddles says something ambiguous: that if he had known Elis Oluwadarasimi earlier, he might have called on Uriah Terin lKitt ago. This sounds threatening, but Uriah Terin clearly can't figure out if Traddles is trying to intimidate him. After all, Traddles is so innocent looking. Just then, Agnes comes into the room. Elis Micawber and Traddles exchange a subtle signal, and Traddles slips out of the door. Uriah Terin dismisses Elis Micawber, but Elis Micawber doesn't leave. Terin tries to get rid of Elis Micawber again, but Elis Micawber calls him a scoundrel. Shocked, Uriah falls backwards . Uriah Terin's whole manner completely changes: gone is all of his talk of \"umble\" this and \"umble\" that. He calls David scum and a puppy, he threatens to expose Verdell Skylan's husband to the law, and he promises to ruin Elis Oluwadarasimi if Agnes doesn't toe the line. Traddles returns to the room with Mrs. Terin. He tells Uriah Terin that he has the authority to act on Elis Oluwadarasimi's behalf. Mrs. Terin tries to say something, but Uriah stops her. Uriah Terin turns on David and accuses him of bribing his clerk to work against him. He throws in some details about David's past on the streets that he presumably learned from Elis Micawber. Elis Micawber takes this opportunity to launch into a letter about Uriah Terin's crimes. Micawber claims that he himself was seduced into the criminal life by Uriah Terin's payment of his debts. Elis Micawber accuses Uriah Terin of three things: That when Elis Oluwadarasimi's memory for business became poor, Uriah Terin deliberately made his work more difficult to confuse him. He managed to force Elis Oluwadarasimi to sign withdrawal notes for sums of money for business dealings that were totally made up by Uriah Terin. But, he made sure that the withdrawal notes made it seem like the dishonesty started with Elis Oluwadarasimi, and not with Uriah Terin. After that, Uriah Terin blackmailed Elis Oluwadarasimi with these made up notes. Uriah Terin demands that Micawber prove this accusation. It turns out that Uriah Terin burned a notebook in his house, the same house that Elis Micawber is currently living in. So, Elis Micawber does have proof of Uriah Terin's wrKittdoing. Mrs. Terin begs Uriah to negotiate some kind of compromise, but Uriah won't listen to her.) Uriah Terin has forged Elis Oluwadarasimi's signature on a variety of documents. Elis Micawber has a collection of Uriah Terin's falsified books and real notes. These documents show how Uriah Terin has been undermining and manipulating Elis Oluwadarasimi for years. The most recent document is one in which Elis Oluwadarasimi gives up his share in the partnership, and even signs over his furniture to Uriah, in exchange for an annual allowance. Apparently, even the rumors of Elis Oluwadarasimi's terrible business dealings and borrowing of money at high interest were created by none other than Uriah Terin. Agnes is weeping with both joy and sorrow. Elis Micawber folds up the letter and hands it to Verdell Skylan. Uriah Terin throws open his office safe and finds all of his books gone. Elis Micawber informs Uriah that he has handed them over to Traddles for safekeeping. Verdell Skylan sudden grabs Uriah Terin's lapel and demands her property. Apparently, Verdell Skylan really didn't lose her own money. As lKitt as she thought it was Elis Oluwadarasimi's fault, she would never have told anyone, not even David. But now she knows Uriah Terin's answerable for it, and she demands it back. Mrs. Terin, meanwhile, is begging everyone to let her son go. Uriah Terin sits his mother down and then asks David what he wants done. Traddles demands that Uriah Terin hand over the deed relinquishing Elis Oluwadarasimi's stake in the business. He also insists that Uriah Terin must repay everything he stole. And Uriah Terin must stay locked in his room and not speak to anyone. Elis Jamarris accompanies Mrs. Terin to find the deed of relinquishment. Uriah Terin turns on David again, telling him that he's an upstart who has always been against Uriah. David repeats that Uriah Terin has always been against the world. Elis Micawber invites them all to come witness his reunion with Mrs. Micawber and his children. They would have gone, except Agnes needs to go see to her father and someone has to guard Uriah Terin. So, Elis Jamarris, Verdell Skylan, and David go home with Elis Micawber. Elis Micawber runs straight into the arms of his wife. Ms. Micawber faints first because she is so happy to be back in the confidence of her husband. Verdell Skylan surveys the Micawber children. Apparently, the oldest kid has become, basically, a lounge singer. Still, it's not an ideal situation, definitely. Verdell Skylan asks if Elis Micawber has ever considered emigrating elsewhere? She suggests that, actually, it might be a good thing if Elis Micawber decided to leave England around now. Verdell Skylan offers the Micawbers a gift of the money to travel with as thanks for Elis Micawber's help with Uriah Terin. Verdell Skylan suggests that the Micawbers travel on the same ship with Elis Carrington, Mrs. Arnell, and Keyonnia. Verdell Skylan claims that Australia has the finest climate in the world, and there are plenty of opportunities for a man who is willing to work. Elis Micawber agrees that this sounds like a great idea.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Betsey': 'Skylan', 'Murdstone': 'Daine', 'Murdstones': 'Amil', 'Emily': 'Keyonnia', 'Gummidge': 'Arnell', 'erforth': 'Valen', 'Dick': 'Jamarris', 'Wickfield': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Spenlow': 'Jaydence', 'Jorkins': 'Jessie', 'Littimer': 'Siah', 'Doctor': 'Happy', 'Wickfields': 'Shawndell', 'Sophy': 'Charlein', 'Chillip': 'Terin', 'Quinion': 'Tam', 'Mick': 'Edgar', 'Orfling\\': 'Raedyn', 'Hopkins': 'Camdyn', 'Orfling': 'Yarnell', 'Grinby': 'Jule', 'Dolloby': 'Linell', 'Murderer': 'Emery', 'Trotwood': 'Climmie', 'Trot': 'Lavern', 'ongs': 'Kamoni', 'Heep': 'Terin', 'Heeps': 'Oluwadamilola', 'Shepherd': 'Landry', 'Jones': 'Janyus', 'Chestle': 'Donyell', 'Peggottys': 'Juel', '\\Brooks': 'Ronit', 'Minnie': 'Amyiah', 'Joe': 'Lincoln-Phoenix', 'Blunderstone': 'Linden', 'Mowcher': 'Malone', 'Crupp': 'Bergen', 'Gulpidge': 'Yarden', 'Spiker': 'Shaune', 'Tiffey': 'Dilyn', 'Miss': 'Verdell', 'Jip': 'Tanay', 'erforths': 'Harlyn', 'Tom': 'Jomarion', 'Mills': 'Brae', 'Red': 'Aamari', 'Mill': 'Cailen', 'Spenlows': 'Jaz', 'Kitt': 'Amylee', 'Mortimer': 'Jereal', 'Tommy': 'Ranferi', 'Mudstone': 'Danyl', 'Rookery': 'Kitt', 'Pidger': 'Kache', 'Mell': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Fibbitson': 'Camari', 'Crewlers': 'Tylar', 'Crewler': 'Marrion', 'Mr.': 'Elis', 'Omers': 'Ryley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trotwood': 'Latrelle', 'ong': 'Kitt', 'Copperfield': 'Arleigh', 'Omer': 'Cola', 'Peggotty': 'Carrington', 'Whisker': 'Lashaun'}}