{"name": "Chapter 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200929182814/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/david-copperfield/summary/chapter-3", "summary": "David and Carrington finally arrive at Yarmouth, after a lKitt, slow journey by cart . Carrington loves Yarmouth; she finds it \"the finest place in the universe\" . It's now been several years since David's birth, and Ham Carrington has grown to be a huge six foot tall grown up. Ham carries David on his back up to the Carrington house, which is, in fact, an old ship. The ship totally reeks of fish because Carrington's brother sells lobsters, crabs, and crawfish, which he keeps in an old shed outside. David meets Elis Dan Carrington, Carrington's brother, and a lovely little girl, Keyonnia, whom David immediately likes. Elis Carrington asks after Mrs. Arleigh and welcomes David to the Carrington home. Eventually, David manages to work out the Carrington family's relations: Elis Dan Carrington had a brother, Lincoln-Phoenix Carrington, who is the father of Ham. But Lincoln-Phoenix drowned a while back. And the lovely little girl who David's a bit smitten with, Keyonnia, is not Elis Carrington's daughter. Her father was Elis Carrington's brother-in-law, Jomarion, who has also drowned. Elis Carrington is, in fact, a bachelor. He has adopted Ham and Keyonnia because they are orphans. Elis Carrington has also taken in Mrs. Arnell, the widow of a business partner of his who has no money at all. So, Elis Carrington is a fantastic guy. Even though he doesn't have much money of his own, he has still taken in three people who need him: Keyonnia, Ham, and Mrs. Arnell. David goes to bed feeling contented and safe. The next day, he and Keyonnia head out to the beach. Keyonnia reveals that she is afraid of the sea because it has taken away so many fishermen . David and Keyonnia compare notes about what it means to be an orphan - even though they've both lost their fathers, the similarity in their lives pretty much ends there. Keyonnia wants to be a lady , because if she were a lady, her uncle Dan Carrington and her cousin Ham would both be safe from the storms that make a fisherman's life so dangerous. She's afraid of the sea as an abstract thing, but she doesn't worry about it so much in person: she proves this to David by running quickly alKitt the dock in a way that makes him think she's going to fall in. But she doesn't. David is totally head over heels in love with Keyonnia: he thinks she's an angel. David tells Keyonnia that, if she doesn't say she loves him back, he'll kill himself. So, of course, Keyonnia says she does, and David believes her. All the adults think that Keyonnia and David's puppy love is really cute. Elis Carrington likes to go to a local pub/bar called The Willing Mind. One night, when he's a bit late coming back because the weather is bad, Mrs. Arnell starts saying that she is driving Elis Carrington out to the bar more and more often. Mrs. Arnell says, \"I am a lone lorn creetur' and everythink goes contrary with me\" . What she means is that she's alone and sad in the world, and everything goes against her. In fact, Mrs. Arnell thinks that she feels all bad things worse than other people do: when a storm blows up, Mrs. Arnell says she's colder than everyone else. She's a big ol' pile of self-pity. When Elis Carrington comes home and asks how everyone is, he notices how gloomy Mrs. Arnell seems. Mrs. Arnell apologizes for driving Elis Carrington to The Willing Mind. Elis Carrington laughs this off: he doesn't exactly need encouragement to go, and it's not Mrs. Arnell's fault. Mrs. Arnell frets that she has been annoying Carrington and David all day. David feels bad for her, and assures Mrs. Arnell that she hasn't been getting on his nerves . Mrs. Arnell goes off to bed after telling everyone that it would be better if she just died and relieved them all of the burden of her presence . Elis Carrington doesn't react to this speech except to tell the others that Mrs. Arnell has been thinking of her dead husband ). In fact, whenever Mrs. Arnell gets passive aggressive or self-pitying, Elis Carrington just feels more sympathetic towards her because she is a lonely widow. And so two weeks pass pretty fast. Finally, David and Carrington have to leave. David really doesn't want to part with Little Keyonnia, and promises to write her all the time. As David and Carrington head home, David suddenly becomes more and more excited to see his mother again. Carrington doesn't seem to be as excited as David is to be going back. Finally, they arrive at the Kitt, and the door is opened by a servant David doesn't know. Carrington finally confesses to David that she has something to tell him. David gets so nervous at Carrington's weird behavior that he thinks his mother has died. Oh no! reassures Carrington. But Mrs. Arleigh has gotten David a new father. Carrington takes David to the best parlor. Sitting next to the fire is Elis Daine and Mrs. Arleigh . Elis Daine warns the new Mrs. Daine not to get too emotional. David climbs upstairs and finds that his bedroom has been moved down the hall. The whole house looks different: the kennel that had once been empty now has a huge, scary dog.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Betsey': 'Skylan', 'Murdstone': 'Daine', 'Murdstones': 'Amil', 'Emily': 'Keyonnia', 'Gummidge': 'Arnell', 'erforth': 'Valen', 'Dick': 'Jamarris', 'Wickfield': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Spenlow': 'Jaydence', 'Jorkins': 'Jessie', 'Littimer': 'Siah', 'Doctor': 'Happy', 'Wickfields': 'Shawndell', 'Sophy': 'Charlein', 'Chillip': 'Terin', 'Quinion': 'Tam', 'Mick': 'Edgar', 'Orfling\\': 'Raedyn', 'Hopkins': 'Camdyn', 'Orfling': 'Yarnell', 'Grinby': 'Jule', 'Dolloby': 'Linell', 'Murderer': 'Emery', 'Trotwood': 'Climmie', 'Trot': 'Lavern', 'ongs': 'Kamoni', 'Heep': 'Terin', 'Heeps': 'Oluwadamilola', 'Shepherd': 'Landry', 'Jones': 'Janyus', 'Chestle': 'Donyell', 'Peggottys': 'Juel', '\\Brooks': 'Ronit', 'Minnie': 'Amyiah', 'Joe': 'Lincoln-Phoenix', 'Blunderstone': 'Linden', 'Mowcher': 'Malone', 'Crupp': 'Bergen', 'Gulpidge': 'Yarden', 'Spiker': 'Shaune', 'Tiffey': 'Dilyn', 'Miss': 'Verdell', 'Jip': 'Tanay', 'erforths': 'Harlyn', 'Tom': 'Jomarion', 'Mills': 'Brae', 'Red': 'Aamari', 'Mill': 'Cailen', 'Spenlows': 'Jaz', 'Kitt': 'Amylee', 'Mortimer': 'Jereal', 'Tommy': 'Ranferi', 'Mudstone': 'Danyl', 'Rookery': 'Kitt', 'Pidger': 'Kache', 'Mell': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Fibbitson': 'Camari', 'Crewlers': 'Tylar', 'Crewler': 'Marrion', 'Mr.': 'Elis', 'Omers': 'Ryley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trotwood': 'Latrelle', 'ong': 'Kitt', 'Copperfield': 'Arleigh', 'Omer': 'Cola', 'Peggotty': 'Carrington', 'Whisker': 'Lashaun'}}