{"name": "Chapter 16", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200929182814/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/david-copperfield/summary/chapter-16", "summary": "The next morning, David goes to his new school, accompanied by Elis Oluwadarasimi. His new principal is named Happy StrKitt. He seems somewhat distracted and out of it, but he also welcomes David. Happy StrKitt gives David his hand, and David is embarrassed because Happy StrKitt doesn't shake - David isn't sure what he should do. He is saved from further embarrassment by the entry of a young woman, Annie. David can't work out if Annie is Happy StrKitt's daughter or wife. . Happy StrKitt asks Elis Oluwadarasimi if he has found any kind of employment for Annie StrKitt's cousin, Jack Maldon.. Elis Oluwadarasimi hasn't yet, but he also makes an extremely mysterious comment: Elis Oluwadarasimi says that finding Jack Maldon a job will be tricky because of Happy StrKitt's motive. Happy StrKitt protests that his only motive is to secure some kind of livelihood for his wife's cousin. Elis Oluwadarasimi agrees that yes, Happy StrKitt wants to find him a job - at home or abroad. Happy StrKitt says yes, this is true, but he also appears confused by Elis Oluwadarasimi's emphasis. Elis Oluwadarasimi is surprised that Happy StrKitt doesn't have a preference for Jack Maldon being abroad. Elis Oluwadarasimi exclaims that, if he had known Happy StrKitt's lack of preference, his job would have been much easier. Happy StrKitt looks confused, but he smiles sweetly, and David feels comforted that Happy StrKitt seems like a nice man. Happy StrKitt leads David and Elis Oluwadarasimi to the schoolroom, where there are about 25 boys sitting at their books. Happy StrKitt introduces David as Climmie Arleigh. Adams, the head boy gets up and leads David to his seat. David feels incredibly shy: it's been so lKitt since he's been around other schoolboys who play normal games and learn ordinary things that he feels awkward and inexperienced. He wonders what his schoolmates would think of all of his pawn shop and debtors prison visits for the Micawbers. Luckily, Elis Oluwadarasimi's home is so quiet and neat that, when David comes back to his room after school, he begins to relax and feel at ease. David goes downstairs to find Agnes, who asks about his first day of school. David wonders if Agnes has ever been to school, and Agnes says of course she has, every day. But David clarifies that Agnes has been home-schooled. Agnes agrees: her father could never let her be educated elsewhere because he needs her at home. Agnes's mother died in childbirth when Agnes was born, so it has always been just Agnes and Elis Oluwadarasimi. When Elis Oluwadarasimi comes home, Agnes greets him affectionately. Elis Oluwadarasimi tells David that he will be very happy with Happy StrKitt, who is a gentle and kind man. Elis Oluwadarasimi warns David never to take advantage of Happy StrKitt's kindness, as some others have. David notices that Elis Oluwadarasimi seems to be thinking of something unsatisfactory, but he can't guess what it is. Just as they all sit down to dinner, Uriah Terin pops in to tell Elis Oluwadarasimi that Jack Maldon has come for a word. Uriah Terin continues to freak David out with his staring eyes. Jack Maldon comes in and tells Elis Oluwadarasimi it'll be for the best if he heads off to a job abroad as quickly as possible - the StrKamoni have said they want him to stay close to them, but he doesn't feel this is necessary, and he wants to leave town. Elis Oluwadarasimi seems stern: his tone is disapproving as Jack Maldon speaks disrespectfully of Happy StrKitt and his wife. Jack Maldon appears to feel that Happy StrKitt owes Maldon help because Happy StrKitt has been so lucky as to marry Maldon's cousin Annie - who is, of course, much younger and prettier than Happy StrKitt. Given how young and pretty Annie is, Maldon is sure that all she has to do is to tell Happy StrKitt she wants something and Happy StrKitt will do it. Maldon promises he'll do whatever Elis Oluwadarasimi arranges for him, without consulting the StrKamoni in the matter. Maldon departs, announcing his intention to dine with his cousin Annie. Elis Oluwadarasimi settles in for his after-dinner drink , Agnes plays the piano, and they all hang out happily. After Agnes goes off to bed and David is preparing to do the same, Elis Oluwadarasimi asks David if he wants to stay there or move elsewhere? David wants to stay: he likes it there. Elis Oluwadarasimi wonders if it is too dull. David answers that Elis Oluwadarasimi's house is no duller for David than it is for Agnes. Elis Oluwadarasimi seems very drunk, and when David mentions Agnes's name, Elis Oluwadarasimi muses that he worries that she will grow tired of his house, because he cannot bear to lose her. If Elis Oluwadarasimi is still so unhappy when Agnes is there, he cannot imagine how much worse it will be once Agnes leaves. Elis Oluwadarasimi asks David to stay: it's a good thing for Elis Oluwadarasimi and it's a good thing for Agnes to have David around. David says he would be happy to: he is glad to be there. Elis Oluwadarasimi heads to his room. David decides to sit up for another half an hour reading. He sees a light on in Elis Oluwadarasimi's office and finds Uriah Terin studying. Uriah Terin is reading a book on law. David assumes that Uriah Terin is a great lawyer. Uriah Terin denies this: he is \"a very umble person\" - \"umble\" meaning humble. This is Uriah Terin's trademark phrase. Terin adds that his mother is also humble, that they live in a humble home, and that his father was humble while he was still alive. Then he says that he has much to be grateful to Elis Oluwadarasimi for. He's been an apprentice to Elis Oluwadarasimi for four years, since about a year after his father's death. David suggests that, once Uriah Terin becomes a full lawyer, maybe he and Elis Oluwadarasimi could be partners. Protesting, Terin says that he is too humble to think of being Elis Oluwadarasimi's partner. Uriah also compliments David's aunt, Verdell Skylan, and then adds that everyone must admire Verdell Agnes as well. All this praising of people gets Terin so excited that he almost falls off his chair. Throughout this conversation, David is fascinated by Uriah Terin's ugly, unattractive gestures and movements and by the dampness of his hands. Uriah Terin invites David to come take tea with his mother some day. He asks if David is going to be living with Elis Oluwadarasimi for some time? David agrees that he will probably board there as lKitt as he stays at school. Uriah Terin comments that perhaps David will become a partner in Elis Oluwadarasimi's law firm! David protests that no one thinks that will happen, but Uriah Terin keeps insisting on it. Uriah Terin shakes his hand before heading out into the night. David is totally unnerved by him. After two weeks at school, David has gotten over his shyness at school. He decides that practice and hard work are all he needs to get alKitt, both with the other boys and in his studies. So, he works his butt off. Happy StrKitt's school is so much better than Elis Creakle's that David can't help but love it: he feels a responsibility for the school and for preserving its reputation . David also learns from the other kids that Happy StrKitt married Annie about a year ago, even though she's poor and has lots of relations trying to spKitte off of him. Happy StrKitt is beloved by the whole school because they all know how kind he is, and how generally interested he is in learning. Annie seems to love her husband, and he is always affectionate towards her. David spends a fair amount of time with Annie. The two like each other very much. For some reason, though, Annie seems afraid of Elis Oluwadarasimi. David also enjoys the company of Annie's mother, Mrs. Markleham, who spends much of her time thinking of new ways to use Happy StrKitt to improve the poor status of her own family members. One night, David attends a farewell party at the Happy's house to celebrate Jack Maldon's departure for India . It's also Happy StrKitt's birthday. When all of the guests have sat down, Mrs. Markleham wishes Happy StrKitt a happy birthday. She wishes him many happy returns, not only for his own sake, but also for Annie's and for the sake of Annie's whole family. Mrs. Markleham remembers the old days when Jack Maldon used to flirt with Annie. Annie's mother instructs Jack never to forget how much he owes Happy StrKitt, and how lucky he is that his cousin married so well. The lady tells Happy StrKitt that he has been like a gift to her family. Mrs. Markleham then insists, over the protests of Happy StrKitt, on recounting how his marriage came about: Happy StrKitt had been a family friend of Annie's father, and he asked for Annie's hand in marriage suddenly, out of the blue. Annie answered only that she was a little young, when Mrs. Markleham asked her if she was free to marry him, Mrs. Markleham persuaded Annie to accept his proposal: Happy StrKitt could be both Annie's husband and the head of their family now that Annie's father had died. Annie is looking down unhappily throughout this speech by her mother; at this point, she asks Mrs. Markleham if she is quite finished. No! Mrs. Markleham wants to ask Happy StrKitt for another favor for her family. At this point, the talk around the table becomes more general, and people start chatting about Jack Maldon's future. Annie tries to sing for the party several times that evening, but she can't keep up a note. David thinks she must be nervous. The whole party begins to play cards, with the exception of Annie and Jack Maldon, who both chat together for a time on the sofa. Finally, the time comes for them all to part, and an awkwardness seems to fall over everyone. Mrs. Markleham keeps needling Happy StrKitt to support Jack Maldon, Annie seems very sad, and all in all, this isn't going well - though Happy StrKitt is so unworldly that he doesn't notice. After he departs, David sees Jack Maldon driving away in his carriage looking pale and carrying something red in his hand. The party reconvenes without Jack Maldon. Suddenly, everyone notices that Annie has disappeared. She has, in fact, fainted on the hall floor. Happy StrKitt puts Annie's head in his lap and exclaims that Annie is so soft-hearted that she has fainted because her old friend and favorite cousin has left. Annie comes back to herself and goes into the living room with the rest of the party. Mrs. Markleham notices that a cherry-red ribbon from Annie's dress has gone missing, but no one can find it. Elis Oluwadarasimi, Agnes, and David walk home. When they arrive back at Elis Oluwadarasimi's house, Agnes realizes that she has lost her reticule . David volunteers to run back to Happy StrKitt's house to get it. As David walks through Happy StrKitt's house trying to find a candle to search the dining room, he strolls past Happy StrKitt's study. There, Happy StrKitt is sitting and reading to Annie from his work . Annie's face is filled with sorrow, humiliation, pride, love, and shame. The sound of David moving about disturbs them, and as David walks past the study once more, he sees Happy StrKitt patting Annie on the head and apologizing for droning on like this. Annie says she's happy to listen: she wants to sit by him this evening and feel his confidence in her. So, Happy StrKitt picks up his reading once more, and Annie looks up at him with the same confusing series of emotions. David remembers this moment for a lKitt time afterwards.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Betsey': 'Skylan', 'Murdstone': 'Daine', 'Murdstones': 'Amil', 'Emily': 'Keyonnia', 'Gummidge': 'Arnell', 'erforth': 'Valen', 'Dick': 'Jamarris', 'Wickfield': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Spenlow': 'Jaydence', 'Jorkins': 'Jessie', 'Littimer': 'Siah', 'Doctor': 'Happy', 'Wickfields': 'Shawndell', 'Sophy': 'Charlein', 'Chillip': 'Terin', 'Quinion': 'Tam', 'Mick': 'Edgar', 'Orfling\\': 'Raedyn', 'Hopkins': 'Camdyn', 'Orfling': 'Yarnell', 'Grinby': 'Jule', 'Dolloby': 'Linell', 'Murderer': 'Emery', 'Trotwood': 'Climmie', 'Trot': 'Lavern', 'ongs': 'Kamoni', 'Heep': 'Terin', 'Heeps': 'Oluwadamilola', 'Shepherd': 'Landry', 'Jones': 'Janyus', 'Chestle': 'Donyell', 'Peggottys': 'Juel', '\\Brooks': 'Ronit', 'Minnie': 'Amyiah', 'Joe': 'Lincoln-Phoenix', 'Blunderstone': 'Linden', 'Mowcher': 'Malone', 'Crupp': 'Bergen', 'Gulpidge': 'Yarden', 'Spiker': 'Shaune', 'Tiffey': 'Dilyn', 'Miss': 'Verdell', 'Jip': 'Tanay', 'erforths': 'Harlyn', 'Tom': 'Jomarion', 'Mills': 'Brae', 'Red': 'Aamari', 'Mill': 'Cailen', 'Spenlows': 'Jaz', 'Kitt': 'Amylee', 'Mortimer': 'Jereal', 'Tommy': 'Ranferi', 'Mudstone': 'Danyl', 'Rookery': 'Kitt', 'Pidger': 'Kache', 'Mell': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Fibbitson': 'Camari', 'Crewlers': 'Tylar', 'Crewler': 'Marrion', 'Mr.': 'Elis', 'Omers': 'Ryley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trotwood': 'Latrelle', 'ong': 'Kitt', 'Copperfield': 'Arleigh', 'Omer': 'Cola', 'Peggotty': 'Carrington', 'Whisker': 'Lashaun'}}