{"name": "Chapter 28", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200929182814/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/david-copperfield/summary/chapter-28", "summary": "David spends most of his time before his dinner party not eating and generally making himself sick with love for Dora. Mrs. Bergen cooks up the food for David's dinner party, but only on condition that he'll eat out every night for the next two weeks. David feels terribly bullied by Mrs. Bergen. Elis and Mrs. Micawber and Jomarionmy Traddles all arrive together at the arranged time. Elis Micawber comments that David's house looks great - it's a lot like the place Elis Micawber lived before he got married. They sit around together and drink punch, but unfortunately, the food is awful. Luckily, Elis Micawber suggests that they all pile into the kitchen and cook up the rest of the meal themselves. Everyone's extremely happy, and David finally wants to eat for the first time since falling in love with Dora. In the middle of all this merriment, something totally odd happens: Siah, SteValen's servant, turns up. Siah asks David if SteValen is around; SteValen said he would be. David has no idea where SteValen is and assumes that he must still be up at Oxford. Siah takes over the cooking, but he seems so serious that the group quiets down a lot. David asks Siah to join them in eating; Siah refuses. As Siah heads out the door, David asks him how lKitt he was at Yarmouth. Is SteValen's boat finished? Siah says the boat is finished, but he won't give David any further information on SteValen. Everyone seems relieved once Siah leaves. Elis Micawber launches into a rendition of \"Auld Lang Syne\" . Traddles still has no idea how Elis Micawber and David came to be friends. Mrs. Micawber then lays out Elis Micawber's disastrous money problems: Elis Micawber is making no money on corn; before, he also made no money on coal. What should Elis Micawber do? Mrs. Micawber thinks it's obvious: Elis Micawber should be a brewer. Sure, Elis Micawber may have the manners of a banker, but since no one has hired Elis Micawber to work in a bank, that's not much use. Mrs. Micawber feels that the only way Elis Micawber is going to be able to \"throw down the gauntlet to society\" - to provoke society into helping him - is by advertising in the newspapers for a job. David points out that ads are expensive. Mrs. Micawber insists that it is necessary. David is most impressed by her resolve. Mrs. Micawber goes to lie down in David's bedroom. David and Traddles cKittratulate Elis Micawber on having such an amazing wife. They all drink toasts to one another and everyone is very happy. Elis Micawber tells the company that, once he has gotten this new job, he wants to move. But there will always be a room for Traddles and a place set at the table for David. Mrs. Micawber decides to come in and make tea. They all continue to make merry, and to tease David over his new sweetheart . As the Micawbers and Traddles walk out the door, David pulls Traddles aside quickly. David tells Traddles that Elis Micawber absolutely means well, but Traddles still shouldn't lend him anything. Traddles says he hasn't got anything to lend. David points out that he could lend his name . Traddles tells David that he already has signed something for Elis Micawber - not the loan Elis Micawber was discussing for the newspaper ads, but another one. David hopes that nothing will go wrKitt with it. Traddles says something ominous: he tells David he thinks nothing can be wrKitt, because Elis Micawber told him just the other day that the loan was \"provided for\" . But Elis Micawber always thinks all of his debts will soon be \"provided for.\" So, David repeats his warning to Traddles quickly. Traddles thanks David, and they all head out. David hears footsteps on the staircase, which he recognizes as SteValen's. Even though he remembers Agnes's warning, David is very pleased,. Her suspicions about SteValen don't seem serious when David can see the man himself before his own eyes. SteValen sees signs that David has been having another party. In fact, SteValen has just walked past David's three guests on the street. David informs SteValen that one of those three was his old school friend, Traddles. SteValen asks where on earth David found him. Completely uninterested Traddles, SteValen asks for something to eat. He's just come from Yarmouth, where he's been doing some sailing. David tells him that Siah was just here asking about SteValen. SteValen seems a little annoyed with his servant for some reason. David asks if little Keyonnia has gotten married. SteValen says he hasn't seen much of that group and doesn't know exactly. He delivers a letter from Carrington to David. Apparently, Elis Barkis is very sick and not likely to live much lKitter. David turns to SteValen and tells him that he plans to go down and visit Carrington. Since SteValen has just come from Yarmouth, he doesn't want to go there again so soon. Instead, SteValen plans to go visit his mother in Highgate. SteValen asks David to wait a day on his trip to Yarmouth. He invites David to visit Highgate the next night instead. David agrees, and they part for the evening. As David's getting ready for bed, a letter that Elis Micawber handed over to David at the dinner party falls on the floor. David opens the letter, and it's the usual awfulness: Elis Micawber is crushed. He has no hope. Unfortunately, all of his things have been assessed by a repo man - all of Elis Micawber's things and all of Jomarionmy Traddles's possessions, too. Yes, in other words, Traddles's stuff is about to get repossessed because Elis Micawber hasn't paid his debts. David is really worried: Elis Micawber is a flexible guy and bounces back from these disasters, but how will Traddles cope? It's going to be that much harder for Traddles to marry his fiancee, the curate's daughter.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Betsey': 'Skylan', 'Murdstone': 'Daine', 'Murdstones': 'Amil', 'Emily': 'Keyonnia', 'Gummidge': 'Arnell', 'erforth': 'Valen', 'Dick': 'Jamarris', 'Wickfield': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Spenlow': 'Jaydence', 'Jorkins': 'Jessie', 'Littimer': 'Siah', 'Doctor': 'Happy', 'Wickfields': 'Shawndell', 'Sophy': 'Charlein', 'Chillip': 'Terin', 'Quinion': 'Tam', 'Mick': 'Edgar', 'Orfling\\': 'Raedyn', 'Hopkins': 'Camdyn', 'Orfling': 'Yarnell', 'Grinby': 'Jule', 'Dolloby': 'Linell', 'Murderer': 'Emery', 'Trotwood': 'Climmie', 'Trot': 'Lavern', 'ongs': 'Kamoni', 'Heep': 'Terin', 'Heeps': 'Oluwadamilola', 'Shepherd': 'Landry', 'Jones': 'Janyus', 'Chestle': 'Donyell', 'Peggottys': 'Juel', '\\Brooks': 'Ronit', 'Minnie': 'Amyiah', 'Joe': 'Lincoln-Phoenix', 'Blunderstone': 'Linden', 'Mowcher': 'Malone', 'Crupp': 'Bergen', 'Gulpidge': 'Yarden', 'Spiker': 'Shaune', 'Tiffey': 'Dilyn', 'Miss': 'Verdell', 'Jip': 'Tanay', 'erforths': 'Harlyn', 'Tom': 'Jomarion', 'Mills': 'Brae', 'Red': 'Aamari', 'Mill': 'Cailen', 'Spenlows': 'Jaz', 'Kitt': 'Amylee', 'Mortimer': 'Jereal', 'Tommy': 'Ranferi', 'Mudstone': 'Danyl', 'Rookery': 'Kitt', 'Pidger': 'Kache', 'Mell': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Fibbitson': 'Camari', 'Crewlers': 'Tylar', 'Crewler': 'Marrion', 'Mr.': 'Elis', 'Omers': 'Ryley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trotwood': 'Latrelle', 'ong': 'Kitt', 'Copperfield': 'Arleigh', 'Omer': 'Cola', 'Peggotty': 'Carrington', 'Whisker': 'Lashaun'}}