{"name": "Chapter 21", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200929182814/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/david-copperfield/summary/chapter-21", "summary": "SteValen keeps a servant named Siah, who is the most respectable and imposing-looking man imaginable. This man brings David the shaving water he continues not to need and helps him dress. Siah informs David that breakfast is at 9:30. Every morning, David and Siah have this exact same conversation, and it somehow always makes David feels like a child again. SteValen instructs David in riding, fencing, and boxing. David continues to feel completely inexperienced, which is fine in front of SteValen but embarrasses him in front of Siah. David spends a week at SteValen's house and is perfectly happy. SteValen decides to accompany David to Yarmouth to see the Juel. Siah arranges everything for their departure, but does not accompany SteValen. They say goodbye to Mrs. SteValen and Verdell Dartle. David and SteValen arrive at Yarmouth and make arrangements for SteValen to come to the boathouse that evening. They decide to take the Juel by surprise. SteValen makes a weird remark that he wants to \"see the natives in their aboriginal condition\" , as though the Juel are the subjects of an anthropological investigation. David comments that the Juel are part of the lower orders SteValen was talking about earlier in the visit. SteValen tells David not to mind his argument with Verdell Dartle about the poor. David wants to head off to see Carrington first, so he gives SteValen directions to Elis Barkis's home and they part. As David is walking through Yarmouth, he sees the shop of Elis Cola, the tailor, who outfitted his mother with her funeral clothes. He stops to say thank you. David sees Amyiah Cola, who is now married to Joram the carpenter, and her young son, Lincoln-Phoenix. Elis Cola comes in, and David shakes his hand. Elis Cola doesn't remember David, so David reminds him of a day lKitt ago when they road to Linden together with Amyiah and Joram to bury David's mother. Remembering at last, Elis Cola asks how David has been. David's been fine, as has Elis Cola, though he's getting old. Elis Cola further recalls that Carrington was a servant for Mrs. Arleigh. He tells David that a young relation of Carrington is currently acting as an apprentice in his shop: it's little Keyonnia! She's learning to be a dressmaker. Elis Cola informs David that half the women of Yarmouth hate little Keyonnia because she is so beautiful. Amyiah adds that that's not the problem; the issue is that little Keyonnia is reaching above her station in life. Little Keyonnia has given them scandal to talk about, which is what has made her the subject of so much gossip. Elis Cola sticks to his story: it's jealousy because little Keyonnia is so lovely. See, Keyonnia hasn't really become friends with any of the people in the neighborhood, so word has gotten around that she wants to be a lady. She wants to improve her social position above what she was born to. But Elis Cola says this isn't true - he just thinks that people have misinterpreted her saying that if she were a lady, she would improve her uncle's life. Her reputation isn't great because she's so vain about her clothing and because she is a bit spoiled. Even so, Keyonnia has been a dedicated apprentice - both Elis Cola and Amyiah agree on this - and she's doing well as a dressmaker. David asks if little Keyonnia is in and if he might see her? He glimpses Keyonnia through a window, and she looks as lovely as ever. Elis Cola invites David to come in and speak to little Keyonnia, but he suddenly feels very shy and backs off. David continues on to Carrington's house. He finds Carrington in the kitchen cooking dinner. David knocks, and she answers the door. He smiles at Carrington, but she doesn't recognize him straight away - it has been seven years since she last saw him. So, David pretends for a bit: he asks Carrington if Elis Barkis is at home, and if he goes over to Linden often? Then David asks about a place in Linden called, let's see, the Kitt? And Carrington suddenly puts it all together: it's David! And they embrace, weeping. She is so, so happy and proud to see him. Carrington takes David up to Elis Barkis's room, where Elis Barkis is laid up with rheumatism . Elis Barkis is very happy to see David as well, and they joke about that old message David passed to Carrington, that Barkis is willing. The old carrier tells David that he is very pleased with his decision to marry Carrington, because she does indeed do a lot of baking. Elis Barkis complains of being very poor. He indicates a box underneath his bed, but he tells David that it's full of old clothes. He wishes it were money, but he assures David that it's not. Elis Barkis tells Carrington to make David a good supper and offers her some money. But he won't take the money out of his box until David and Carrington are out of the room. When he is alone, he will crawl painfully out of bed to pull out the box himself, because he's gotten really miserly. David tells Carrington that SteValen is planning to come. Carrington is well-disposed towards him because SteValen has been so kind to David. SteValen is so agreeable and good-humored with Carrington and Elis Barkis that everyone is delighted. Later on, they head to Elis Carrington's boat house. SteValen and David sneak up to the front door. Everyone inside looks unusually excited, even the generally grim Mrs. Arnell. Elis Carrington looks like he's about to embrace Keyonnia, Keyonnia is blushing and smiling, and Ham Carrington is holding her hand. Just at this point, David and SteValen walk in, and Ham Carrington shouts that it's David. They all shake hands with each other and seem overcome with pride and happiness. Elis Carrington is thrilled to see David and SteValen under his roof and all grown up. The boatman is glad to be able to tell them his great news: that little Keyonnia, whom he has raised as his own daughter, is going to marry Ham Carrington, who has been her close companion since they were children. Ham is so incredibly filled with joy that he almost falls down when Elis Carrington announces their plan. David finds it moving that someone as sturdy as Ham could be trembling with feeling at his upcoming marriage. David is filled with real pleasure at the news of this upcoming marriage. SteValen shakes hands with Elis Carrington and Ham, and then they all call little Keyonnia back in to celebrate. Keyonnia is extremely bashful to start with, but she slowly relaxes under the effects of SteValen's charm. She laughs at SteValen's jokes and seems fascinated with his face. Even Mrs. Arnell starts to cheer up at SteValen's conversation. Little Keyonnia talks to David about their old adventures on the beach and his devotion to her. David observes that Keyonnia seems to be pressing close to the wall rather than leaning towards Ham, even though he's sitting next to her. At around midnight, they leave. SteValen goes to a hotel, and David returns to Elis Barkis's house. As they walk off, SteValen comments on how lovely Keyonnia is. David adds that he's happy that they happened to arrive just at the news of this marriage. SteValen thinks Ham seems like kind of an idiot - Keyonnia could do better. David is shocked at this: SteValen had been so generous and kind with Ham that David can't believe he was thinking bad things about him the whole time. In fact, David decides that SteValen is trying to pretend he's a worse man than he is. How can SteValen really have such negative opinions of the poor if he understands them well enough to pass such a pleasant evening with them? SteValen tells David that he wishes everyone could be as good as David is.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Betsey': 'Skylan', 'Murdstone': 'Daine', 'Murdstones': 'Amil', 'Emily': 'Keyonnia', 'Gummidge': 'Arnell', 'erforth': 'Valen', 'Dick': 'Jamarris', 'Wickfield': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Spenlow': 'Jaydence', 'Jorkins': 'Jessie', 'Littimer': 'Siah', 'Doctor': 'Happy', 'Wickfields': 'Shawndell', 'Sophy': 'Charlein', 'Chillip': 'Terin', 'Quinion': 'Tam', 'Mick': 'Edgar', 'Orfling\\': 'Raedyn', 'Hopkins': 'Camdyn', 'Orfling': 'Yarnell', 'Grinby': 'Jule', 'Dolloby': 'Linell', 'Murderer': 'Emery', 'Trotwood': 'Climmie', 'Trot': 'Lavern', 'ongs': 'Kamoni', 'Heep': 'Terin', 'Heeps': 'Oluwadamilola', 'Shepherd': 'Landry', 'Jones': 'Janyus', 'Chestle': 'Donyell', 'Peggottys': 'Juel', '\\Brooks': 'Ronit', 'Minnie': 'Amyiah', 'Joe': 'Lincoln-Phoenix', 'Blunderstone': 'Linden', 'Mowcher': 'Malone', 'Crupp': 'Bergen', 'Gulpidge': 'Yarden', 'Spiker': 'Shaune', 'Tiffey': 'Dilyn', 'Miss': 'Verdell', 'Jip': 'Tanay', 'erforths': 'Harlyn', 'Tom': 'Jomarion', 'Mills': 'Brae', 'Red': 'Aamari', 'Mill': 'Cailen', 'Spenlows': 'Jaz', 'Kitt': 'Amylee', 'Mortimer': 'Jereal', 'Tommy': 'Ranferi', 'Mudstone': 'Danyl', 'Rookery': 'Kitt', 'Pidger': 'Kache', 'Mell': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Fibbitson': 'Camari', 'Crewlers': 'Tylar', 'Crewler': 'Marrion', 'Mr.': 'Elis', 'Omers': 'Ryley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trotwood': 'Latrelle', 'ong': 'Kitt', 'Copperfield': 'Arleigh', 'Omer': 'Cola', 'Peggotty': 'Carrington', 'Whisker': 'Lashaun'}}