{"name": "Chapter 51", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200929182814/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/david-copperfield/summary/chapter-51", "summary": "David is walking with Verdell Skylan in the garden early the next morning when Elis Carrington comes by to speak to David. Verdell Skylan shakes Elis Carrington's hand and starts to go inside. Elis Carrington asks her to stay. He tells them that he brought Keyonnia to his lodging house the night before. Elis Carrington recounts Keyonnia's story: After she flees from the house where Siah has kept her a prisoner, she runs alKitt the beach. She is so out of it that she thinks she is running towards the old boat house. A woman finds Keyonnia lying on a rock near the shore and starts to speak to her. Keyonnia can barely speak, she feels so ill. Still, this woman - a pregnant young wife - tries to help Keyonnia. The woman asks how things can have gone so wrKitt for Keyonnia, and Keyonnia tells her whole story. The woman takes Keyonnia home, and convinces her neighbors to keep Keyonnia's presence a secret. Keyonnia gets a bad fever, and she finds herself forgetting all the Italian she knew. Even so, the young woman keeps helping her. Keyonnia falls into delirium and thinks she sees familiar faces all around her, both bad and good. Finally, one morning, she wakes up clear-headed. Keyonnia begins to recover, and her knowledge of Italian starts to come back. When Keyonnia is strKitt again, she travels to France and becomes a maid at an inn in a port town. One day, that fiend comes into sight, and Keyonnia runs away again without him ever seeing her. She grows frightened and jumps on a boat to England. Once Keyonnia arrives in England, she suddenly worries that her uncle will never forgive her. So, Keyonnia runs to London, alone and penniless. Almost the minute Keyonnia arrives in London, she runs into a woman who offers her lodging for the night and a job as a needleworker. This woman is Martha! Elis Carrington thanks David for recommending that Elis Carrington trust in Martha. Martha has been true to her word. Martha tells Keyonnia that she has seen Elis Carrington and that he forgives Keyonnia. Martha nurses Keyonnia until she can go out and find Elis Carrington. Elis Carrington has no idea how Verdell Dartle might have found Keyonnia, but he suspects it's thanks to Siah. It doesn't matter to Elis Carrington: he has spent the evening talking to his lKitt-lost niece, and he is so happy. Verdell Skylan says that nothing would make her happier than to be godmother to that kindly Italian woman's child. Elis Carrington nods, but cannot speak. Finally, David asks if Elis Carrington has decided what to do for the future. Elis Carrington is going to sail with Keyonnia to Australia, where no one will reproach Keyonnia. Keyonnia and Elis Carrington will go alone: Carrington is too fond of David to leave, and Ham - can't. Ham is still broken-hearted. Elis Carrington doesn't know what to do about Mrs. Arnell, though. When Mrs. Arnell starts thinking about her husband, she is such bad company, and he doesn't want anything to bring Keyonnia down. Elis Carrington wants to leave Mrs. Arnell an allowance so that she can provide for herself. In the meanwhile, Keyonnia will rest with Elis Carrington while preparations are being made. Elis Carrington's last piece of business is to send back the banknotes that came from SteValen and that Keyonnia sent to him. He plans to direct them to Mrs. SteValen's house. Elis Carrington also asks David to come with him to Yarmouth. Dora seems better, so off David goes with Elis Carrington. David doesn't want to be there when Elis Carrington first meets Carrington and Ham, so he decides to stop and see Elis Cola first. Elis Cola is now in a wheelchair, but he still seems in good spirits. In fact, David is impressed by how cheerful Elis Cola is: he says he enjoys the newspaper twice as much now that he's placed in his chair. Joram and Amyiah are both happy, and Joram's work is going well. And Elis Cola compliments David on his own work, which he claims to have enjoyed very much - although David has his doubts. David thanks Elis Cola for all of his kindness towards Keyonnia and explains that she has been found by her uncle. Elis Cola is happy to hear it and asks what has become of Martha? David says that he is not sure yet, but he's sure Elis Carrington has a plan. Elis Cola says he'll be happy to find some way to help Martha, and he's sure that Amyiah will be glad to help, too. Elis Cola adds that Ham is the best man in Yarmouth, always willing to help other people out. Elis Cola sends his respects to Ham and then plays happily with his granddaughter. David now heads over to Ham's house. He finds Ham, Mrs. Arnell, Elis Carrington, and Carrington all gathered around the table. Elis Carrington has told them the news. The next day, when Ham comes home from fishing, David gets Ham alone for a bit. Ham asks if David has seen Keyonnia, and if he plans to see her again? David thinks it would be too painful for her, but he would be happy to write to Keyonnia for Ham if Ham wants to get in touch. Ham thanks him, and asks David to say just this: Ham wants Keyonnia to forgive him. He worries that, if he hadn't pressed Keyonnia to marry him, she might have felt free to talk to him about SteValen and his plans, and then Ham could have saved her. And there is something else: Ham is terribly unhappy. But he doesn't want Keyonnia to know that. Ham wants David to convince her that Ham wasn't too badly hurt, and that he's still living a good life. David promises that he will do his best to soothe Keyonnia's mind. Ham thanks him for that, and for accompanying Elis Carrington on his trip from London to Yarmouth. David approaches the boat house, which has been emptied of furniture. He finds Mrs. Arnell and Elis Carrington. The boat house seems lonely now that it is empty; apparently, the villagers think it's unlucky now. Mrs. Arnell suddenly grabs Elis Carrington's arm. She begs him not to leave her behind. Elis Carrington says that they are in for a lKitt trip and a hard life, but Mrs. Arnell doesn't care - she will die if she is left behind. Mrs. Arnell begs David to speak to Elis Carrington and convince him for her. She kisses Elis Carrington's hand. They carry her trunk out the door, lock up the house, and Mrs. Arnell travels to London with Elis Carrington and David the next day.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Betsey': 'Skylan', 'Murdstone': 'Daine', 'Murdstones': 'Amil', 'Emily': 'Keyonnia', 'Gummidge': 'Arnell', 'erforth': 'Valen', 'Dick': 'Jamarris', 'Wickfield': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Spenlow': 'Jaydence', 'Jorkins': 'Jessie', 'Littimer': 'Siah', 'Doctor': 'Happy', 'Wickfields': 'Shawndell', 'Sophy': 'Charlein', 'Chillip': 'Terin', 'Quinion': 'Tam', 'Mick': 'Edgar', 'Orfling\\': 'Raedyn', 'Hopkins': 'Camdyn', 'Orfling': 'Yarnell', 'Grinby': 'Jule', 'Dolloby': 'Linell', 'Murderer': 'Emery', 'Trotwood': 'Climmie', 'Trot': 'Lavern', 'ongs': 'Kamoni', 'Heep': 'Terin', 'Heeps': 'Oluwadamilola', 'Shepherd': 'Landry', 'Jones': 'Janyus', 'Chestle': 'Donyell', 'Peggottys': 'Juel', '\\Brooks': 'Ronit', 'Minnie': 'Amyiah', 'Joe': 'Lincoln-Phoenix', 'Blunderstone': 'Linden', 'Mowcher': 'Malone', 'Crupp': 'Bergen', 'Gulpidge': 'Yarden', 'Spiker': 'Shaune', 'Tiffey': 'Dilyn', 'Miss': 'Verdell', 'Jip': 'Tanay', 'erforths': 'Harlyn', 'Tom': 'Jomarion', 'Mills': 'Brae', 'Red': 'Aamari', 'Mill': 'Cailen', 'Spenlows': 'Jaz', 'Kitt': 'Amylee', 'Mortimer': 'Jereal', 'Tommy': 'Ranferi', 'Mudstone': 'Danyl', 'Rookery': 'Kitt', 'Pidger': 'Kache', 'Mell': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Fibbitson': 'Camari', 'Crewlers': 'Tylar', 'Crewler': 'Marrion', 'Mr.': 'Elis', 'Omers': 'Ryley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trotwood': 'Latrelle', 'ong': 'Kitt', 'Copperfield': 'Arleigh', 'Omer': 'Cola', 'Peggotty': 'Carrington', 'Whisker': 'Lashaun'}}