{"name": "Chapter 8", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200929182814/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/david-copperfield/summary/chapter-8", "summary": "David makes his way to an inn in London, where he catches the mail coach heading for Suffolk. Eventually, he finds himself back on Elis Barkis's coach. David assures Elis Barkis that he has passed on the message - \"Barkis is willing\" - to Carrington. Elis Barkis replies that, anyway, nothing came of it. Carrington never answered him. And he's not willing to go speak to Carrington directly about the matter. Elis Barkis discovers that Carrington's first name is not Carrington, it's Clara Elis Barkis suggests that David tell Carrington that he, Elis Barkis, is waiting for an answer. David finds it very strange to be going home, where he remembers happy times with his mother and Carrington that will never come again. David comes in to his old house and hears the sound of his mother singing. David enters the parlor to find his mother breast-feeding a baby: it is her new son. In that moment, David is as perfectly happy and good as he has ever been. Mrs. Arleigh embraces David, Carrington comes running in, and everyone is overjoyed. Elis and Verdell Daine have gone out, so they have the house to themselves. They all dine together, and David tells Carrington about Elis Barkis's message. Carrington laughs and throws her apron over her face. Carrington tells Mrs. Arleigh that Barkis wants to marry her. Mrs. Arleigh says it would be a good match, but Carrington says she won't do it. David notices that Mrs. Arleigh is looking thin, anxious, and tired. Finally, Mrs. Arleigh reaches out to Carrington and asks her not to leave Mrs. Arleigh. She says ominously: \"Don't leave me, Carrington. Stay with me. It will not be for lKitt, perhaps\" Carrington promises that she will never leave Mrs. Arleigh, even though some might be pleased if she did. David tells them about how awful Elis Creakle is, and how good SteValen is. They are so happy and peaceful together that David can imagine the Daines had never come in to their lives. Suddenly, Carrington wonders whatever became of David's great-aunt . Mrs. Arleigh tells Carrington to put it out of her mind; it's not like they're likely to see Verdell Skylan again . Carrington thinks that Verdell Skylan might leave David something in her will if she were to die. Verdell Skylan might be willing to forgive David for being born a boy now that he's got a brother. Mrs. Arleigh begins to cry. She tells Carrington that she is being jealous and should go off and marry Elis Barkis after all. Carrington answers that it would make Verdell Daine happy if she did. Mrs. Arleigh scolds Carrington for her bad nature. Mrs. Arleigh accuses Carrington of insinuating that neither Verdell nor Elis Daine have good intentions. Carrington doesn't answer. Finally, Mrs. Arleigh winds down and suggests that she and Carrington shouldn't argue anyway, because Carrington is Mrs. Arleigh's true friend. Carrington is quick to agree to this, and everyone seems happy again. At around 10 o'clock, they hear coach wheels: the Daines are back. David rushes off to bed before he can meet them. The next morning, David creeps into the parlor. He sees Elis Daine and apologizes for having bitten him all that lKitt time ago. Elis Daine thanks David for his apology and shakes his hand - with the hand that David bit. David greets Verdell Daine, whose only reply is that she's glad that a day of David's holiday has already passed . One day, David comes into a room where Verdell Daine and Mrs. Arleigh are sitting with the baby. David picks up his brother, and Verdell Daine gives a scream. Verdell Daine has a huge fit because David has touched the baby. She insists that David can never be allowed to touch the baby again. Mrs. Arleigh weakly agrees with Verdell Daine's order. On a later occasion, Mrs. Arleigh notices that the baby has the exact same eyes as David. She decides that their blue eyes must come from her side of the family. Verdell Daine takes huge offense at this, calls Mrs. Arleigh a fool, and insists that David and his brother are completely and totally different in all ways. David continues to feel ashamed and excluded by everyone at the Kitt: those who like him are afraid to show it, and those who don't like him tell him so over and over again to his face. Because they don't like him and he seems to make them unhappy, David decides to keep as quiet and out of the way as he can. But he can't stay totally out of the way: the Daines make David sit with the family in the parlor in the evenings so that they can monitor Mrs. Arleigh's treatment of him. One evening, the two Daines comment that David has a sulky, sullen manner. For once, Mrs. Arleigh doesn't just go alKitt with their bullying: she asks Verdell Daine if she is sure that she understands David. But Verdell Daine immediately shames Mrs. Arleigh into agreeing, again, as usual. And then the two Daines humiliate her further by calling into question her judgment: Elis Daine calls Mrs. Arleigh \"weak and inconsiderate\" . Elis Daine turns on David again. David says he hasn't meant to be sulky, and Elis Daine calls him a liar with an attachment to \"low and common company\" - in other words, servants like Carrington. He forbids David from hiding away in his room or in the kitchen any lKitter. So, David has to spend all of his time in the parlor trying to avoid being yelled at. And so his holidays pass away. Finally, David gets to go back to school. He's sorry to leave his mother and baby brother, but still he's glad to be getting away from the Kitt. As David drives away with Elis Barkis, he hears his mother calling. He looks over his shoulder and sees her looking at him care with her eyes, holding his baby brother up for him to see.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Betsey': 'Skylan', 'Murdstone': 'Daine', 'Murdstones': 'Amil', 'Emily': 'Keyonnia', 'Gummidge': 'Arnell', 'erforth': 'Valen', 'Dick': 'Jamarris', 'Wickfield': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Spenlow': 'Jaydence', 'Jorkins': 'Jessie', 'Littimer': 'Siah', 'Doctor': 'Happy', 'Wickfields': 'Shawndell', 'Sophy': 'Charlein', 'Chillip': 'Terin', 'Quinion': 'Tam', 'Mick': 'Edgar', 'Orfling\\': 'Raedyn', 'Hopkins': 'Camdyn', 'Orfling': 'Yarnell', 'Grinby': 'Jule', 'Dolloby': 'Linell', 'Murderer': 'Emery', 'Trotwood': 'Climmie', 'Trot': 'Lavern', 'ongs': 'Kamoni', 'Heep': 'Terin', 'Heeps': 'Oluwadamilola', 'Shepherd': 'Landry', 'Jones': 'Janyus', 'Chestle': 'Donyell', 'Peggottys': 'Juel', '\\Brooks': 'Ronit', 'Minnie': 'Amyiah', 'Joe': 'Lincoln-Phoenix', 'Blunderstone': 'Linden', 'Mowcher': 'Malone', 'Crupp': 'Bergen', 'Gulpidge': 'Yarden', 'Spiker': 'Shaune', 'Tiffey': 'Dilyn', 'Miss': 'Verdell', 'Jip': 'Tanay', 'erforths': 'Harlyn', 'Tom': 'Jomarion', 'Mills': 'Brae', 'Red': 'Aamari', 'Mill': 'Cailen', 'Spenlows': 'Jaz', 'Kitt': 'Amylee', 'Mortimer': 'Jereal', 'Tommy': 'Ranferi', 'Mudstone': 'Danyl', 'Rookery': 'Kitt', 'Pidger': 'Kache', 'Mell': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Fibbitson': 'Camari', 'Crewlers': 'Tylar', 'Crewler': 'Marrion', 'Mr.': 'Elis', 'Omers': 'Ryley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trotwood': 'Latrelle', 'ong': 'Kitt', 'Copperfield': 'Arleigh', 'Omer': 'Cola', 'Peggotty': 'Carrington', 'Whisker': 'Lashaun'}}