{"name": "Chapter 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200929182814/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/david-copperfield/summary/chapter-4", "summary": "David goes up to bed and feels so miserable that he can't stop crying. Mrs. Arleigh and Carrington go up to look for David, and find him in bed under the covers. David's mother asks him what's wrKitt, and he says, \"Nothing\" . Mrs. Arleigh yells at Carrington; she feels that Carrington has turned David against her. Mrs. This is supposed to be Mrs. Arleigh's honeymoon, so she is furious with both David and Carrington for being so unhappy with her new marriage. Elis Daine comes in and tells Mrs. Arleigh to be firm with David and to dismiss Carrington. When Elis Daine is alone with David, he tells David this: that if Elis Daine has a stubborn horse or a dog to deal with, he beats it. Elis Daine tells David that he's an intelligent boy who should understand Elis Daine very well. He makes David wash his face and then come down to speak to Mrs. Arleigh. The three of them - David, Elis Daine, and Mrs. Arleigh - have dinner together. David notices that Elis Daine seems very fond of Mrs. Arleigh, but David still hates him. When they all leave the dining room, Mrs. Arleigh hugs David in secret and asks him to love his new father, Elis Daine. That evening after dinner, a serious-looking lady arrives at the house: Verdell Jane Daine, Elis Daine's sister. The first thing Verdell Danyl says to David is: \"Generally speaking I don't like boys\" . This is not a good omen. Verdell Daine is a suspicious lady who immediately takes charge of the household affairs. She lives in fear that the servants are trying to hide a man in the house, and searches for him regularly. Verdell Daine takes the keys of the house from Mrs. Arleigh and immediately starts bossing everyone around. Mrs. Arleigh starts to cry one evening from the stress of being bossed around by the Daines, but the two of them gang up on her and frighten her into shutting up. What is Mrs. Arleigh's great crime? She asks to be consulted about household matters once in a while. Verdell Daine says that she's going to leave the Kitt immediately. Elis Daine forbids Verdell Daine from leaving. The two of them emotionally abuse Mrs. Arleigh until she begs Verdell Daine to stay. Elis Daine says that this whole scene is unfit for David to see and sends him to bed early. The next day, David overhears his mother pleading with Verdell Daine for forgiveness. After this, Mrs. Arleigh never makes a single suggestion without asking if it's okay with Verdell Daine first. David starts learning his lessons at the hand of Elis Daine and his sister. He has to come in to the parlor each morning and recite whatever he's been assigned by memory. When he starts to trip up - as is inevitable, because the material is too hard for him - Elis and Verdell Daine immediately start criticizing. They also scold Mrs. Arleigh for trying to help David - they think she isn't firm enough in her treatment of her son. This treatment makes David sullen and grumpy . The only thing that saves him is his dead father's collection of novels, which give David an escape into imagination. These books are David's only comfort. One morning, David comes into the parlor, where his mother, Verdell Daine, and Elis Daine are waiting for him. Elis Daine is holding a cane, which he swishes through the air a few times. Mrs. Arleigh is protesting weakly, but Elis and Verdell Daine totally shut her down: they say that Elis Daine has often been flogged - whipped - and it's been good for him. Elis Daine tells David that he has to be extra careful today with his lessons. Of course, David does terribly thanks to all the stress and finally bursts out crying. Mrs. Arleigh starts weeping, and Verdell Daine scolds her for it. Elis Daine brings David upstairs. Even though David begs him not to beat him, Elis Daine grabs him around the neck and holds him down. David manages to twist around and bite Elis Daine's hand as hard as he can. It's not enough to get Elis Daine to let David free. Elis Daine beats David as though he wants to kill him and then leaves him lying on the floor, locking the door of David's room from the outside. David eventually gets up; simply moving makes his injuries sting again. Night is falling. David has spent most of the day looking out the window, weeping, and dozing off. Finally, Verdell Daine comes in with some dinner, glares at him, and leaves. David starts to wonder: is he a criminal? Is he going to be sent to prison? David goes to bed, and the next morning, he wakes up and remembers this weird burden of guilt. Verdell Daine comes in and tells him he gets half an hour outside in the garden, but no more. David's kept more or less in prison like this for five whole days, without getting a glimpse of his mother or Carrington. He's allowed downstairs once a day for evening prayers, but he can't speak to anybody. He sees that Elis Daine's hand is bandaged from the bite. David remembers those five days of isolation like they were years. In the middle of the fifth night, a whisper wakes him: Carrington is standing at the keyhole, but she has to be really quiet so they don't wake Verdell Daine. She tells David that he is being sent to boarding school near London. Carrington also assures David that he'll see his mother in the morning, before he's sent away. Carrington promises David that she loves him. She hasn't wanted to show it too much because she knows that obvious affection would make the Daines' treatment of David even worse. But she will write to him, and she will keep looking after Mrs. Arleigh as best she can. This parting makes David feel a deep affection for Carrington, almost as though she were his mother. Verdell Daine comes in the next day and tells David he's going to school. He gets dressed and runs to his mother, who looks like she's been crying. David asks for forgiveness from Mrs. Arleigh. Mrs. Arleigh tells him that she's disappointed that he's such a bad child, hurting someone she loves . She forgives him and asks him to be better. The Daines have convinced Mrs. Arleigh that David is a wicked boy. Mrs. Arleigh tells David that he is going away to school to become a better kid, and that he'll be back for holidays. Verdell Daine escorts David out to the cart, where she tells him that she hopes he'll feel bad for what he's done, before he comes to \"a bad end\" .", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Betsey': 'Skylan', 'Murdstone': 'Daine', 'Murdstones': 'Amil', 'Emily': 'Keyonnia', 'Gummidge': 'Arnell', 'erforth': 'Valen', 'Dick': 'Jamarris', 'Wickfield': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Spenlow': 'Jaydence', 'Jorkins': 'Jessie', 'Littimer': 'Siah', 'Doctor': 'Happy', 'Wickfields': 'Shawndell', 'Sophy': 'Charlein', 'Chillip': 'Terin', 'Quinion': 'Tam', 'Mick': 'Edgar', 'Orfling\\': 'Raedyn', 'Hopkins': 'Camdyn', 'Orfling': 'Yarnell', 'Grinby': 'Jule', 'Dolloby': 'Linell', 'Murderer': 'Emery', 'Trotwood': 'Climmie', 'Trot': 'Lavern', 'ongs': 'Kamoni', 'Heep': 'Terin', 'Heeps': 'Oluwadamilola', 'Shepherd': 'Landry', 'Jones': 'Janyus', 'Chestle': 'Donyell', 'Peggottys': 'Juel', '\\Brooks': 'Ronit', 'Minnie': 'Amyiah', 'Joe': 'Lincoln-Phoenix', 'Blunderstone': 'Linden', 'Mowcher': 'Malone', 'Crupp': 'Bergen', 'Gulpidge': 'Yarden', 'Spiker': 'Shaune', 'Tiffey': 'Dilyn', 'Miss': 'Verdell', 'Jip': 'Tanay', 'erforths': 'Harlyn', 'Tom': 'Jomarion', 'Mills': 'Brae', 'Red': 'Aamari', 'Mill': 'Cailen', 'Spenlows': 'Jaz', 'Kitt': 'Amylee', 'Mortimer': 'Jereal', 'Tommy': 'Ranferi', 'Mudstone': 'Danyl', 'Rookery': 'Kitt', 'Pidger': 'Kache', 'Mell': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Fibbitson': 'Camari', 'Crewlers': 'Tylar', 'Crewler': 'Marrion', 'Mr.': 'Elis', 'Omers': 'Ryley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trotwood': 'Latrelle', 'ong': 'Kitt', 'Copperfield': 'Arleigh', 'Omer': 'Cola', 'Peggotty': 'Carrington', 'Whisker': 'Lashaun'}}