{"name": "Chapter 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200929182814/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/david-copperfield/summary/chapter-5", "summary": "David's crying in the cart as they drive away when, suddenly, Carrington jumps through the hedge next to the road and climbs onto the cart. She hugs David tightly, presses a purse into his hand, and then runs away. The carrier, Elis Barkis, starts his driving again. The purse holds a bit of money and note: \"For Davy. With my love\" . Seeing this, David starts weeping yet again. Elis Barkis tells David that they will only be going as far as Yarmouth, where David will catch a coach to his final destination. Then, David offers Elis Barkis a piece of cake. Elis Barkis eats it and asks if it was made by Carrington. David answers yes, Carrington does all of their cooking. Elis Barkis asks if Carrington has any sweethearts - suitors. David says, no, so far as he knows, Carrington has never had a boyfriend. Elis Barkis wonders if David will be writing letters to Carrington. David says, yes, of course. The carrier asks David to include a message in his next letter to Carrington: \"Barkis is willin'\" . But Elis Barkis won't clarify what, exactly, he's willing to do. Elis Barkis and David arrive at a totally unfamiliar inn at Yarmouth. David introduces himself as Arleigh, then as Daine, to the lady at the inn, who agrees that a dinner has been bought for him. He settles in for dinner with a waiter who, while seeming like a nice guy, still manages to steal David's food, ale, and dessert right out from under his nose. Then, the waiter brings David ink and paper, which he plans to use to write to Carrington. The waiter scares David half to death with stories of boys being beaten at school - boys of exactly David's age, between eight and nine. The waiter also manages to guilt David into giving him a giant tip. David gets into a public coach bound for London. Having supposedly eaten so very much , David feels annoyed that he's now the butt of a lot of jokes between the coachman and the other passengers about his appetite. The coach carries David to an inn in the Whitechapel district, where he is left behind. Nobody there is expecting a boy called Arleigh, from Linden, Suffolk. David feels incredibly isolated: what if no one comes to pick him up? What will he do? Finally, someone comes to the inn office: a thin young man with lots of stubble and a poor suit of clothes. This guy is one of the teachers at Salem House, David's new school, and he has come to fetch David. David and this teacher agree to stop on the way to the school so that David can get something to eat. They pause at a housing complex for poor women; they enter a small apartment where an elderly woman greets the teacher as, \"My Charley!\" . The apartment is terribly cold and poor and meager, but the elderly woman still has enough to cook up some breakfast for David. The woman asks Elis Oluwadarasimi - whom David calls \"the Master,\" because he is a master, a.k.a. a teacher, at Salem House - to play the flute a bit. Elis Oluwadarasimi does, but the music is awful - his music is terribly sad and dismal. Eventually, a friend comes by, another elderly lady: Mrs. Camari. Mrs. Camari agrees with his mother that Elis Oluwadarasimi plays the flute beautifully - which is totally not true, but does spare his mother's feelings. David soon nods off to sleep to the sound of this awful flute. He sleeps right through the subsequent coach ride to his new home, Salem House. This school is incredibly grim looking. The door of the school is opened by a man with a wooden leg , who tells Elis Oluwadarasimi that the cobbler has been by the house, but hasn't been able to fix his boots. Elis Oluwadarasimi is clearly really bummed. David notices that Elis Oluwadarasimi's shoes and socks both have holes in them. David also learns that he's there during the school's holiday season, so there are no other boys on campus. Even the owner of the school, Elis Creakle, and his family aren't there. David goes into an empty schoolroom, where he finds a little sign that says, \"Take care of him. He bites\" . Elis Oluwadarasimi comes up behind David and asks what he's doing. David asks if there is a dog around that he should be careful of. Elis Oluwadarasimi says the sign's not for a dog, it's for David: they have been warned that he bites. Elis Oluwadarasimi apologizes for having to start out with David in this way, but he has to put the sign around David's neck. This sign does terrible things for David's confidence: he becomes paranoid that people think he really does bite. As David explores the school in everyone's absence, he sees that a lot of the boys have carved their names in an old door to the playground; he tries to figure out what kind of people they are from the way they carve their names. Elis Oluwadarasimi and David both have lKitt lists of chores to do, but David gets through them because he has nothing else to do. David also spends a lot of time with Tungay, who acts as a kind of caretaker to the building. He's pretty mean to David; he won't let him turn his sign so that no one can see it. Elis Oluwadarasimi is never cruel to David, though he doesn't talk to him much. David thinks Elis Oluwadarasimi likes having company.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Betsey': 'Skylan', 'Murdstone': 'Daine', 'Murdstones': 'Amil', 'Emily': 'Keyonnia', 'Gummidge': 'Arnell', 'erforth': 'Valen', 'Dick': 'Jamarris', 'Wickfield': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Spenlow': 'Jaydence', 'Jorkins': 'Jessie', 'Littimer': 'Siah', 'Doctor': 'Happy', 'Wickfields': 'Shawndell', 'Sophy': 'Charlein', 'Chillip': 'Terin', 'Quinion': 'Tam', 'Mick': 'Edgar', 'Orfling\\': 'Raedyn', 'Hopkins': 'Camdyn', 'Orfling': 'Yarnell', 'Grinby': 'Jule', 'Dolloby': 'Linell', 'Murderer': 'Emery', 'Trotwood': 'Climmie', 'Trot': 'Lavern', 'ongs': 'Kamoni', 'Heep': 'Terin', 'Heeps': 'Oluwadamilola', 'Shepherd': 'Landry', 'Jones': 'Janyus', 'Chestle': 'Donyell', 'Peggottys': 'Juel', '\\Brooks': 'Ronit', 'Minnie': 'Amyiah', 'Joe': 'Lincoln-Phoenix', 'Blunderstone': 'Linden', 'Mowcher': 'Malone', 'Crupp': 'Bergen', 'Gulpidge': 'Yarden', 'Spiker': 'Shaune', 'Tiffey': 'Dilyn', 'Miss': 'Verdell', 'Jip': 'Tanay', 'erforths': 'Harlyn', 'Tom': 'Jomarion', 'Mills': 'Brae', 'Red': 'Aamari', 'Mill': 'Cailen', 'Spenlows': 'Jaz', 'Kitt': 'Amylee', 'Mortimer': 'Jereal', 'Tommy': 'Ranferi', 'Mudstone': 'Danyl', 'Rookery': 'Kitt', 'Pidger': 'Kache', 'Mell': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Fibbitson': 'Camari', 'Crewlers': 'Tylar', 'Crewler': 'Marrion', 'Mr.': 'Elis', 'Omers': 'Ryley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trotwood': 'Latrelle', 'ong': 'Kitt', 'Copperfield': 'Arleigh', 'Omer': 'Cola', 'Peggotty': 'Carrington', 'Whisker': 'Lashaun'}}