{"name": "Chapter 32", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200929182814/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/david-copperfield/summary/chapter-32", "summary": "David finds himself thinking of SteValen as a beloved friend who has now died - he can't imagine that he'll ever see SteValen again. The entire town has heard about the Juel' misfortune, and they treat the family gently. The next morning, David comes to the boat house and finds Elis Carrington with Ham and Carrington. He goes for a walk with Elis Carrington and Ham. Elis Carrington informs David that he plans to leave Yarmouth. He wants to travel with David to London the next day. Ham will continue working as a fisherman. He'll live with Carrington in Elis Barkis's old house. Elis Carrington plans to leave the boat house exactly as it was when Keyonnia left, so she'll have a place to go if she ever comes back. Mrs. Arnell will take care of the house while Elis Carrington is away looking for Keyonnia. David asks Ham what he wants to do now, and Ham can't answer: he feels totally at sea and lost right now. Mrs. Arnell is preparing breakfast for them when they get back to the boat house. She looks after them kindly, and she promises that she will write to Elis Carrington regularly to let him know how things are going at the boat house. David is impressed with Mrs. Arnell: she spends the whole day running useful errands without ever complaining or quarreling as she used to do. David goes out in the late evening for a walk and returns to Elis Cola's shop. Elis Cola is so upset that he has gone to bed early. Amyiah is still up, though, and she speaks to David. She exclaims that Keyonnia is a lying, bad-hearted girl. David protests. Amyiah starts to cry, and asks what on earth Keyonnia will do next? How can she have done this to herself and to Ham? Amyiah is so unhappy that her husband comes in to take care of her. David returns to Carrington's house. Carrington, meanwhile, is staying at Elis Carrington's house to help him. David is sitting up late at night when he hears a soft knock at the door. He opens the door and finds just about the last person in the world he expected to see: Verdell Malone, the hairdresser. Verdell Malone looks incredibly upset. David asks her what the matter is, and invites her inside. Verdell Malone tells David that she feels quite ill when she thinks that she could have prevented what has happened if she had been less foolish. David seems surprised that Verdell Malone has such strKitt feelings about this whole disaster. Verdell Malone is annoyed that David assumes that, because she is a little person, she doesn't have regular human feelings. David apologizes. Verdell Malone continues: people expect her to be foolish, so she plays the fool. Why shouldn't she? She has to make a living! If Verdell Malone had been serious and confiding to SteValen, he would never have listened to her. The little lady tells David that she saw him walking through the street and decided to come pay him a visit. Verdell Malone knows of Keyonnia from Cola and Joram. The hair dresser scolds David for having looked so fond of little Keyonnia during his previous meeting with Verdell Malone. Verdell Malone thought that it was David who was courting Keyonnia, not James SteValen. And Siah encouraged Verdell Malone's mistake by telling her that SteValen had only come down to Yarmouth with David to keep an eye on David's budding romance with Keyonnia. Siah told Verdell Malone that SteValen was there to keep David and Keyonnia from going too far. Only now does Verdell Malone realize that Siah deliberately deceived her. It's because she thought it was innocent young David pursuing Keyonnia that Verdell Malone agreed to give Keyonnia a letter from Siah. She now thinks that that letter was probably the first method SteValen used to bring Keyonnia in contact with Siah, and then with SteValen. Verdell Malone became suspicious when she was visiting the nearby town of Norwich, where she saw little Keyonnia, SteValen, and Siah, but no David. She came to Yarmouth to try and stop the plot, but it's already too late and Keyonnia has disappeared. Verdell Malone asks if David trusts her. David can't say that he does. Verdell Malone tells him that he would trust her if she were a full-sized woman. David is embarrassed to admit that might be true. The little hairdresser advises David not to judge people by how they look. Verdell Malone gets up to go, but she says she'll be in touch: she promises that, if she ever hears word of little Keyonnia on her travels, she'll let David know. She gives David a piece of advice: she recommends that, if David ever sees her behaving as she did when David first met her, to see who she's with. That may explain why she's having to defend herself by appearing foolish. David feels completely differently about Verdell Malone now. The next morning, Elis Carrington and Carrington arrive to meet David for the coach to London. Ham Carrington and Mrs. Arnell come to say goodbye. Ham pulls David aside and tells him to look after Elis Carrington. Ham also offers that, if Elis Carrington ever needs money, Ham will be happy to send some. They part, and David remembers that moment with great sorrow: Ham is convinced that he will be alone for the rest of his life. Mrs. Arnell also seems deeply moved and tearful as she runs after the coach saying goodbye to Elis Carrington. They arrive in London, and David manages to find a place for the Juel to stay, in a room two streets over from his own. He brings the Juel up to his boarding house to eat. Mrs. Bergen is profoundly annoyed because Carrington immediately dusts David's room for him, as though Mrs. Bergen weren't taking good enough care of the place. Elis Carrington wants to see Mrs. SteValen. David writes to Mrs. SteValen, letting her know what SteValen has done. They arrive at Mrs. SteValen's house in Highgate, where they also find Verdell Rosa Dartle. Mrs. SteValen looks pale and shaken: she clearly knows what SteValen has done. SteValen's mother asks Elis Carrington what he wants from her. Elis Carrington holds out Keyonnia's letter to Mrs. SteValen, who reads it without apparent emotion. He asks whether SteValen will marry Keyonnia. Mrs. SteValen says no: Keyonnia is uneducated and ignorant, and her family is too low to be connected to the SteValens. Elis Carrington promises Mrs. SteValen that, if SteValen were to save Keyonnia from disgrace, none of her family would ever come and bother the SteValens. Mrs. SteValen seems touched, but she nevertheless repeats that SteValen can never marry Keyonnia: it would ruin his career. SteValen's mother offers Elis Carrington money to make up for the loss he has suffered. Elis Carrington tells her that it's the worst thing he's ever heard, offering money to repay the life of his disgraced child. Mrs. SteValen flushes with anger: she asks how Elis Carrington can talk to her that way, when now there is a huge gap between Mrs. SteValen and her son? She claims that Elis Carrington's loss is nothing compared to hers, now that SteValen has chosen a young girl over his own mother. Verdell Dartle keeps trying to soothe Mrs. SteValen, but she stays furious. When Mrs. SteValen talks this way, David sees the resemblance between her and her son very clearly: the same strKitt, misdirected will. Elis Carrington says that he has no more to say, and leaves. As they are walking out the house, Verdell Dartle suddenly walks up and addresses David. She scolds him for bringing Elis Carrington here. Verdell Dartle looks absolutely furious. She tells David that she knows that James SteValen is a liar and a betrayer, but she doesn't give a d--n about Elis Carrington or \"his common niece\" . Verdell Dartle calls the Juel depraved and worthless, and she claims that she would have had Keyonnia whipped. Elis Carrington walks out the door at this. David tells Verdell Dartle she ought to be ashamed of herself. Verdell Dartle is filled with rage and passion: she detests Keyonnia and wishes her the worst. David walks out the door after Elis Carrington. Elis Carrington plans to leave that evening to look for little Keyonnia. David, Carrington, and Elis Carrington all eat together that evening, and Carrington hands Elis Carrington some money. With that, Elis Carrington walks out into the night.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Betsey': 'Skylan', 'Murdstone': 'Daine', 'Murdstones': 'Amil', 'Emily': 'Keyonnia', 'Gummidge': 'Arnell', 'erforth': 'Valen', 'Dick': 'Jamarris', 'Wickfield': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Spenlow': 'Jaydence', 'Jorkins': 'Jessie', 'Littimer': 'Siah', 'Doctor': 'Happy', 'Wickfields': 'Shawndell', 'Sophy': 'Charlein', 'Chillip': 'Terin', 'Quinion': 'Tam', 'Mick': 'Edgar', 'Orfling\\': 'Raedyn', 'Hopkins': 'Camdyn', 'Orfling': 'Yarnell', 'Grinby': 'Jule', 'Dolloby': 'Linell', 'Murderer': 'Emery', 'Trotwood': 'Climmie', 'Trot': 'Lavern', 'ongs': 'Kamoni', 'Heep': 'Terin', 'Heeps': 'Oluwadamilola', 'Shepherd': 'Landry', 'Jones': 'Janyus', 'Chestle': 'Donyell', 'Peggottys': 'Juel', '\\Brooks': 'Ronit', 'Minnie': 'Amyiah', 'Joe': 'Lincoln-Phoenix', 'Blunderstone': 'Linden', 'Mowcher': 'Malone', 'Crupp': 'Bergen', 'Gulpidge': 'Yarden', 'Spiker': 'Shaune', 'Tiffey': 'Dilyn', 'Miss': 'Verdell', 'Jip': 'Tanay', 'erforths': 'Harlyn', 'Tom': 'Jomarion', 'Mills': 'Brae', 'Red': 'Aamari', 'Mill': 'Cailen', 'Spenlows': 'Jaz', 'Kitt': 'Amylee', 'Mortimer': 'Jereal', 'Tommy': 'Ranferi', 'Mudstone': 'Danyl', 'Rookery': 'Kitt', 'Pidger': 'Kache', 'Mell': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Fibbitson': 'Camari', 'Crewlers': 'Tylar', 'Crewler': 'Marrion', 'Mr.': 'Elis', 'Omers': 'Ryley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trotwood': 'Latrelle', 'ong': 'Kitt', 'Copperfield': 'Arleigh', 'Omer': 'Cola', 'Peggotty': 'Carrington', 'Whisker': 'Lashaun'}}