{"name": "Chapter 36", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200929182814/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/david-copperfield/summary/chapter-36", "summary": "David is starting to perk up a bit. He's got a new goal in mind: he is going to repay Verdell Skylan for all of her kindness to him in earlier days. What's more, he's going to make enough money to marry Dora. David travels to Highgate to see Happy StrKitt. David is an hour early, so he gives in to curiosity and goes across to Mrs. SteValen's house first. He peeks in through an open door to see Verdell Dartle pacing back and forth like a trapped animal. The sight freaks him out, and he heads back to Happy StrKitt's home. Happy StrKitt looks exactly the same as he always does. He greets David warmly, and tells him that both Annie and Elis Jack Maldon will be happy to see David. Jack Maldon has come back from India because he hates the climate. Happy StrKitt is happy to hire David, but he wants to make sure that David can't do better. David assures him that he doesn't want to do better - he's really committed to this, and he hopes that he can be of service to Happy StrKitt. He's grateful for the work! Happy StrKitt admits that his papers are kind of out of order; he tried to employ Jack Maldon as a secretary but Jack Maldon sucked at it. Having agreed to take on David as an employee, Happy StrKitt brings him to see Annie. Just then, a man comes walking up to the house leading a horse: it's Jack Maldon himself. Maldon seems totally lazy and uninterested - except when he's talking to Annie. The lazy man has heard news of hunger in the north of England and a murder in the city, but he doesn't seem to care at all. He has only come to invite Annie out to the opera that evening. Happy StrKitt encourages her to go, but Annie says she would rather not. She changes the subject right away and asks David about Agnes. Even David can finally see what's going on, but Happy StrKitt is so good-natured that he's blind to the fact that Jack Maldon is trying to steal his wife from under his nose. Annie keeps to her resolution not to go out with Jack Maldon, and David wonders if Agnes has been influencing Annie for good the way she has been influencing David. David has yet to tell Dora his news; he's going to wait until she is next visiting Verdell Brae. Still wanting to do more, David goes to Jomarionmy Traddles with Elis Jamarris. Elis Jamarris has begun to fret because he doesn't have anything useful to contribute. David worries that Elis Jamarris will make himself sick with all the worrying, so he wants to find something for Elis Jamarris to do. Traddles welcomes David, and they talk over plans. David wants to do some reporting on the debates of Parliament to add to his income. Traddles warns David that he'll need to learn shorthand. David promises he will, and Traddles is amazed at his determination. Elis Jamarris then tells Elis Traddles that he would do anything - play the drums, blow a flute, anything - to help. Traddles asks how Elis Jamarris's handwriting is. It's excellently neat, but the problem is that King Charles the First keeps cropping up in all of Elis Jamarris's manuscripts . Traddles wonders if Elis Jamarris might have an easier time writing out a manuscript that's already been finished. The two men decide to try it out: they bring Elis Jamarris to Traddles's law office the next morning. They hand over some legal documents that need to be copied several times. They instruct Elis Jamarris to put his Memorial next to the legal documents he's copying. They tell Elis Jamarris that, every time he feels even the slightest inclination to talk about King Charles the First, he must reach over and put that in his Memorial. Otherwise, he should copy the documents exactly as they appear on the page. Traddles pays Elis Jamarris by the page for this copy work. By end of the week, Elis Jamarris has earned 10 shillings and 9 pence . Elis Jamarris is incredibly proud and happy. Traddles is also extremely pleased to have been able to help Elis Jamarris. Jomarionmy delivers a letter to David from Elis Micawber. The letter has the news that Elis Micawber has found a job. He's going to a rural town to work in \"one of the learned professions\" . . David is relieved that it looks like Elis Micawber really has found a job at last. Traddles and David set off to see Elis Micawber. The whole Micawber family is there: the twins are napping in the living room, and Master Micawber is fidgeting around. Verdell Micawber, the eldest daughter, is also present. David cKittratulates Elis Micawber on the move. Mrs. Micawber renews her promises that she will never leave Elis Micawber. Elis Micawber seems annoyed: no one expects that Mrs. Micawber will leave him, after all. The Micawbers are heading back to Canterbury . Believe it or not, Elis Micawber is going to be working as a clerk for none other than Uriah Terin. That newspaper ad Mrs. Micawber suggested seems to have paid off: Uriah answered the ad, and here is Elis Micawber with a job. Mrs. Micawber insists that Elis Micawber use this job as an opportunity to rise to the heights of law: maybe a judgeship. Traddles tries to explain that this just ain't going to happen, but Mrs. Micawber seems undeterred. David tells Elis and Mrs. Micawber about his aunt's bad luck, and they seem quite happy with this news. They drink a number of toasts . Elis Micawber hands Traddles an I.O.U. for his debts, with the claim that he's going to pay them back. Elis Micawber seems to feel that this I.O.U. is basically the same as actually paying Traddles back.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Betsey': 'Skylan', 'Murdstone': 'Daine', 'Murdstones': 'Amil', 'Emily': 'Keyonnia', 'Gummidge': 'Arnell', 'erforth': 'Valen', 'Dick': 'Jamarris', 'Wickfield': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Spenlow': 'Jaydence', 'Jorkins': 'Jessie', 'Littimer': 'Siah', 'Doctor': 'Happy', 'Wickfields': 'Shawndell', 'Sophy': 'Charlein', 'Chillip': 'Terin', 'Quinion': 'Tam', 'Mick': 'Edgar', 'Orfling\\': 'Raedyn', 'Hopkins': 'Camdyn', 'Orfling': 'Yarnell', 'Grinby': 'Jule', 'Dolloby': 'Linell', 'Murderer': 'Emery', 'Trotwood': 'Climmie', 'Trot': 'Lavern', 'ongs': 'Kamoni', 'Heep': 'Terin', 'Heeps': 'Oluwadamilola', 'Shepherd': 'Landry', 'Jones': 'Janyus', 'Chestle': 'Donyell', 'Peggottys': 'Juel', '\\Brooks': 'Ronit', 'Minnie': 'Amyiah', 'Joe': 'Lincoln-Phoenix', 'Blunderstone': 'Linden', 'Mowcher': 'Malone', 'Crupp': 'Bergen', 'Gulpidge': 'Yarden', 'Spiker': 'Shaune', 'Tiffey': 'Dilyn', 'Miss': 'Verdell', 'Jip': 'Tanay', 'erforths': 'Harlyn', 'Tom': 'Jomarion', 'Mills': 'Brae', 'Red': 'Aamari', 'Mill': 'Cailen', 'Spenlows': 'Jaz', 'Kitt': 'Amylee', 'Mortimer': 'Jereal', 'Tommy': 'Ranferi', 'Mudstone': 'Danyl', 'Rookery': 'Kitt', 'Pidger': 'Kache', 'Mell': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Fibbitson': 'Camari', 'Crewlers': 'Tylar', 'Crewler': 'Marrion', 'Mr.': 'Elis', 'Omers': 'Ryley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trotwood': 'Latrelle', 'ong': 'Kitt', 'Copperfield': 'Arleigh', 'Omer': 'Cola', 'Peggotty': 'Carrington', 'Whisker': 'Lashaun'}}