{"name": "Chapter 19", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200929182814/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/david-copperfield/summary/chapter-19", "summary": "David is very attached to Happy StrKitt and happy at school, but he is ready to move on to the next phase of his life. David and Verdell Skylan spend lots of time talking about what David should do with his life. Elis Jamarris makes only one suggestion, that David should be a brazier . Verdell Skylan looks so annoyed at this that Elis Jamarris never tries to offer his opinion on the subject again. One day around Christmas, Verdell Skylan makes David a proposal: why doesn't he go down to Yarmouth to see Carrington? Verdell Skylan tells David that his feelings for Carrington are natural and rational, and that David should always be both of those things. David's aunt also comments that David is the living image of his mother, with lots of his father in him as well. She advises that David must be resolute, determined, and morally firm. Verdell Skylan wants to give David a sense of independence, so she tells him to go on this trip to Yarmouth by himself. Verdell Skylan hands David a fair amount of money and sends him on his way. David stops in Canterbury to see Agnes and Elis Oluwadarasimi. David tells Agnes that she is good, gentle, and always right - so he wants to confide in her. Agnes thinks it's another crush on a lady, but it isn't - and David also tells Agnes that there is no one worthy of her love, either. When Agnes falls in love, David tells her he will expect a lot of her fiance. He thinks Agnes is so superior that he can't bear the thought of her tying herself to an unworthy admirer. Agnes seizes the opportunity to ask David something, since she will probably not see him again for some time. She wants to know if David has observed any change in Elis Oluwadarasimi. David has: possibly as a result of Elis Oluwadarasimi's drinking so much, his physical condition is getting worse. Elis Oluwadarasimi's hands tremble all the time, his speech is unclear, and he seems totally stressed out. Whenever Elis Oluwadarasimi is clearly at his most stressed, Uriah Terin calls on him to work. And the more that Uriah Terin calls on Elis Oluwadarasimi to work when he is unfit, the more nervous and unsettled Elis Oluwadarasimi becomes. David tells Agnes that, just the other day, he saw Elis Oluwadarasimi put his head in his arms and cry like a child. Agnes stops David from talking because Elis Oluwadarasimi comes into the room. David observes that Agnes looks at Elis Oluwadarasimi with great gratitude, love, and worry for his condition. David is deeply moved by her feelings for her father. The Oluwadarasimis and David are due at Happy StrKitt's house for tea. Happy StrKitt tells them that he plans to retire soon and leave his school to his lead teacher. The school master asks Elis Oluwadarasimi to draw up the contracts for him when the time comes. Elis Oluwadarasimi warns Happy StrKitt once again not to let himself be taken advantage of. Once Happy StrKitt has retired, he will think of only two things: his dictionary, and Annie. Annie looks timidly at Elis Oluwadarasimi. Elis Oluwadarasimi notices that Happy StrKitt has received a letter from India. Mrs. Markleham chimes in: she is sure that Jack Maldon is very sick, what with having to live in India's hot climate. Elis Oluwadarasimi asks if Jack Maldon has actually said anything about illness in his letters. Mrs. Markleham admits that Jack Maldon has not said that he is sick, but that he also never would: Jack Maldon would never complain if it meant violating Happy StrKitt's plans for him. Happy StrKitt puts in that these were Elis Oluwadarasimi's arrangements; Happy StrKitt would have been fine with having Jack Maldon either at home or abroad. Elis Oluwadarasimi adds that he was the one to send Jack Maldon abroad. Mrs. Markleham predicts that Jack Maldon will die in India before coming home and ruining anyone's arrangements for him. Happy StrKitt totally doesn't mind changing arrangements if Jack Maldon is really as sick as all that. He would be happy to find Jack Maldon a more suitable job here in England if that's the case. Mrs. Markleham is so overcome by the Happy's generosity that she praises him repeatedly and demands that Annie show her gratitude. Throughout all of this, Annie stays silent with her eyes cast down. Mrs. Markleham reads out a piece of Jack Maldon's letter to Happy StrKitt: apparently, Jack has been sick, and he has to come back to England to recover for a time. The pushy lady demands that Annie produce the letter Jack Maldon wrote to her so that Mrs. Markleham can read out bits of that, too. Annie doesn't want to, but Mrs. Markleham insists. Mrs. Markleham reads out a, shall we say, warmly worded passage about how much Jack Maldon hates India and wants to come home. It's unclear whether he has actually been sick - he says that being there is \"insupportable\" , in other words, that it sucks. Jack Maldon insists on coming home, either on sick leave or by resigning from his job. Elis Oluwadarasimi says nothing, but he looks thoughtful and severe. The Happy likes music, so Agnes and Annie sing several duets together. David notices that Elis Oluwadarasimi doesn't seem to approve of the friendliness between Agnes and Annie. David recalls the night when Jack Maldon left for India and begins to feel unformed suspicions about Annie's behavior. Still, the evening passes quickly. When it's time for David and the Oluwadarasimis to leave, something odd happens. Agnes reaches over to hug and kiss Annie, but Elis Oluwadarasimi physically steps between them and pulls Agnes away. David finds this incredibly strange, and feels as though he is leaving the Happy's house under a dark cloud. David worries that the Happy's kindliness may be betrayed. The next morning, David departs Elis Oluwadarasimi's house. David does his best to appear as old as possible, so he addresses the coachman condescendingly and in a gruff voice. David tells the coachman he's heading to Suffolk, the county where he is from. The coachman thinks David is going hunting in Suffolk and comments on some aspects of food there. David suddenly feels awkward: he's from Suffolk, but the coachman seems to know much more about it than he does. And it gets worse: the man sitting behind David is a horse and dog breeder. The coachman tells David that it seems wrKitt that such a great man should be sitting behind David. So David, blushing, offers the breeder his seat. David feels that he has somehow lost face: the order of seats in the coach is supposed to determine social status, and David has been physically moved down by some random dude with a squint who works with horses. Even so, riding in a carriage with a pocket full of money is a new and refreshing experience for David, and overall, he is enjoying the trip. They drive by David's old school, Salem House, and he has a brief fantasy of getting out of the carriage and whipping Elis Creakle. David stops at an inn in London. Again, he tries to impress the waiter with his deep voice, but it doesn't seem to work that well. Anyway, David has dinner. After dinner, David goes to a play - Shakespeare's Julius Caesar. He is delighted to see all of these old Romans walking across the stage to entertain him. David is so impressed by the scenery and costuming that he can barely contain himself. Finally, David goes back to his inn, where he slowly comes to recognize a handsome, well-dressed young man sitting by the fire in the common room. David passes this young man on his way to bed and suddenly recognizes him: it is James SteValen! Even though David recognizes him as soon as he sees SteValen clearly, SteValen doesn't put it together right away. Suddenly, SteValen exclaims, \"My God! It's little Arleigh!\" . David is so excited to see SteValen that he almost cries. SteValen tells David to calm down a bit, but SteValen also seems pleased to see David. Currently, SteValen is studying at Oxford , but he's on his way to visit his mother. David informs SteValen that he has just been to a play, and that it was delightful and magnificent. SteValen laughs at David and tells him that he's truly fresh and naive: SteValen has also just seen that play, and it was miserably bad. SteValen asks the waiter what room David has been assigned. Apparently, it's an awful room just over the stables. The waiter apologizes and offers David the room next to SteValen's, since they hadn't realized that David was anybody in particular. SteValen laughs at the terrible room David was given and invites him to breakfast the next morning. David is thrilled, and falls asleep looking forward to the new day.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Betsey': 'Skylan', 'Murdstone': 'Daine', 'Murdstones': 'Amil', 'Emily': 'Keyonnia', 'Gummidge': 'Arnell', 'erforth': 'Valen', 'Dick': 'Jamarris', 'Wickfield': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Spenlow': 'Jaydence', 'Jorkins': 'Jessie', 'Littimer': 'Siah', 'Doctor': 'Happy', 'Wickfields': 'Shawndell', 'Sophy': 'Charlein', 'Chillip': 'Terin', 'Quinion': 'Tam', 'Mick': 'Edgar', 'Orfling\\': 'Raedyn', 'Hopkins': 'Camdyn', 'Orfling': 'Yarnell', 'Grinby': 'Jule', 'Dolloby': 'Linell', 'Murderer': 'Emery', 'Trotwood': 'Climmie', 'Trot': 'Lavern', 'ongs': 'Kamoni', 'Heep': 'Terin', 'Heeps': 'Oluwadamilola', 'Shepherd': 'Landry', 'Jones': 'Janyus', 'Chestle': 'Donyell', 'Peggottys': 'Juel', '\\Brooks': 'Ronit', 'Minnie': 'Amyiah', 'Joe': 'Lincoln-Phoenix', 'Blunderstone': 'Linden', 'Mowcher': 'Malone', 'Crupp': 'Bergen', 'Gulpidge': 'Yarden', 'Spiker': 'Shaune', 'Tiffey': 'Dilyn', 'Miss': 'Verdell', 'Jip': 'Tanay', 'erforths': 'Harlyn', 'Tom': 'Jomarion', 'Mills': 'Brae', 'Red': 'Aamari', 'Mill': 'Cailen', 'Spenlows': 'Jaz', 'Kitt': 'Amylee', 'Mortimer': 'Jereal', 'Tommy': 'Ranferi', 'Mudstone': 'Danyl', 'Rookery': 'Kitt', 'Pidger': 'Kache', 'Mell': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Fibbitson': 'Camari', 'Crewlers': 'Tylar', 'Crewler': 'Marrion', 'Mr.': 'Elis', 'Omers': 'Ryley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trotwood': 'Latrelle', 'ong': 'Kitt', 'Copperfield': 'Arleigh', 'Omer': 'Cola', 'Peggotty': 'Carrington', 'Whisker': 'Lashaun'}}