{"name": "Chapter 33", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200929182814/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/david-copperfield/summary/chapter-33", "summary": "Meanwhile, while all of this craziness has been going on with the Juel, David has been loving Dora from afar. So, as soon as he comes back to London, he walks over to her house so that he can walk around it, thinking of her. David tells Carrington about his love for Dora. Carrington has no idea why David should feel that he has no chance with her - Dora should feel lucky to have David. David takes Carrington to his law offices and has the will approved: everything is all in order. He also brings Carrington to Elis Jaydence to pay her bill. They stand waiting for Elis Jaydence to return to the office, which he does shortly - accompanied by Elis Daine. Elis Jaydence says, \"You know this gentleman, I believe?\" . David nods, and Carrington barely acknowledges Elis Daine. Elis Daine doesn't look too pleased to see them, but he asks how David is doing. David answers passive aggressively: not that you really care, but yes, I'm doing fine. Elis Daine turns to Carrington and gives her condolences for losing her husband. Carrington replies that at least she has the comfort of knowing that she never nagged anyone to death. Elis Daine looks over to David and tells him that he's sure he'll be happy to know they'll probably never meet again. David's stepfather claims that he was right to treat David strictly, and that David's hatred of Elis Daine is what made Mrs. Arleigh's final years so unhappy. They've been conducting this conversation out of earshot of Elis Jaydence, but suddenly Elis Daine raises his voice. Elis Daine addresses Elis Jaydence, saying that family issues are always difficult. With that, Elis Daine pays his bill and walks out of the office. Both David and Carrington have trouble restraining themselves from yelling at Elis Daine. David is relieved to find that Elis Jaydence doesn't seem to know the precise connection between Elis Daine and David. Elis Jaydence seems to think that Verdell Skylan is the leader of David's family and that Elis Daine is some kind of \"rebel\" from her authority. He cKittratulates David for being on the side with the most money, i.e., Verdell Skylan's side. Elis Jaydence comments that he has heard that this marriage will be a good one. David has no idea what Elis Jaydence is talking about. David asks if the lady Elis Daine is planning to marry is young. Apparently, she's only just come of age. Carrington exclaims, \"Lord deliver her!\" . Just then, the clerk, Elis Dilyn, comes in with Carrington's bill. Carrington pays Elis Jaydence and takes her leave; David stays on to do a bit of work. The divorce case they're working on gives David some moral problems, but he's too shy to argue too much with Dora's father on the matter. David has some specific suggestions about how the practice of law could be improved: he thinks that the facilities for storing documents all seem really insecure and vulnerable. Elis Jaydence shrugs off this objection. David notes that, eighteen years ago, this exact problem came before Parliament, but no one has done anything about it. It is in the middle of this discussion that Elis Jaydence invites David to join him and Dora for a picnic on Dora's birthday. David goes nuts preparing for the picnic, buying new clothes and making all kinds of preparations. He arrives at last and finds Dora sitting with a friend of hers, Verdell Brae. Dora is also accompanied by her dog, Tanay. David gives Dora a bouquet of flowers, which Tanay starts eating. Dora tells David to be glad because Verdell Daine isn't there: she's gone to her brother's wedding. Elis Jaydence comes out of the house, and the four friends - Elis Jaydence, David, Dora, and Verdell Brae - all get into a carriage. David is beside himself with joy throughout the whole trip. Finally, they arrive at their destination. David is disappointed to find other people waiting for them, including a man just a few years older than David with a big red mustache, who David calls Aamari Lashaun. David is absolutely jealous of Aamari Lashaun, and is sure that they are rivals for Dora's affection. He spends some time sitting around feeling tragic. Finally, Verdell Brae and Dora find David. Verdell Brae observes that these two seem kind of glum, and advises them to get over themselves. David, overcome, kisses Dora's hand. He then kisses Verdell Cailen's hand. David and Dora walk through the trees arm in arm, and David feels as though he has gone to heaven. Soon, they have to rejoin the crowd, but David still feels too happy to believe it all. Eventually, the party ends and everyone goes their separate ways, including Aamari Lashaun - but David gets to go home with the Jaydences and Verdell Brae. As David is preparing to climb into the carriage, Verdell Brae pulls him aside. She tells David that Dora is coming to visit Verdell Brae in two days, and that she is sure that her father would be happy to host David. David is absolutely thrilled, and thanks Verdell Brae from the bottom of his heart. They return to London, and David rides home. Eventually, David finds Verdell Cailen's house. Elis Brae is out, but luckily, the people he actually wants to see - Verdell Brae and, of course, Dora - are in. Verdell Brae chats with David for a bit and then leaves the room. Dora and David have a bit of small talk about how tired his horse is. Then, Dora reproaches David for seeming awfully chummy with Verdell Amylee at the picnic the other day. Suddenly, David is inspired: he embraces Dora and tells her how much he loves her. Tanay barks throughout the whole proposal. David and Dora wind up engaged. Verdell Brae comes back in and gives them her blessing. David commissions a wedding ring in blue stones shaped like forget-me-nots. Dora and David have little quarrels, but Verdell Brae helps them to patch it up. David looks back on this time with easy joy.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Betsey': 'Skylan', 'Murdstone': 'Daine', 'Murdstones': 'Amil', 'Emily': 'Keyonnia', 'Gummidge': 'Arnell', 'erforth': 'Valen', 'Dick': 'Jamarris', 'Wickfield': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Spenlow': 'Jaydence', 'Jorkins': 'Jessie', 'Littimer': 'Siah', 'Doctor': 'Happy', 'Wickfields': 'Shawndell', 'Sophy': 'Charlein', 'Chillip': 'Terin', 'Quinion': 'Tam', 'Mick': 'Edgar', 'Orfling\\': 'Raedyn', 'Hopkins': 'Camdyn', 'Orfling': 'Yarnell', 'Grinby': 'Jule', 'Dolloby': 'Linell', 'Murderer': 'Emery', 'Trotwood': 'Climmie', 'Trot': 'Lavern', 'ongs': 'Kamoni', 'Heep': 'Terin', 'Heeps': 'Oluwadamilola', 'Shepherd': 'Landry', 'Jones': 'Janyus', 'Chestle': 'Donyell', 'Peggottys': 'Juel', '\\Brooks': 'Ronit', 'Minnie': 'Amyiah', 'Joe': 'Lincoln-Phoenix', 'Blunderstone': 'Linden', 'Mowcher': 'Malone', 'Crupp': 'Bergen', 'Gulpidge': 'Yarden', 'Spiker': 'Shaune', 'Tiffey': 'Dilyn', 'Miss': 'Verdell', 'Jip': 'Tanay', 'erforths': 'Harlyn', 'Tom': 'Jomarion', 'Mills': 'Brae', 'Red': 'Aamari', 'Mill': 'Cailen', 'Spenlows': 'Jaz', 'Kitt': 'Amylee', 'Mortimer': 'Jereal', 'Tommy': 'Ranferi', 'Mudstone': 'Danyl', 'Rookery': 'Kitt', 'Pidger': 'Kache', 'Mell': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Fibbitson': 'Camari', 'Crewlers': 'Tylar', 'Crewler': 'Marrion', 'Mr.': 'Elis', 'Omers': 'Ryley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trotwood': 'Latrelle', 'ong': 'Kitt', 'Copperfield': 'Arleigh', 'Omer': 'Cola', 'Peggotty': 'Carrington', 'Whisker': 'Lashaun'}}