{"name": "Chapter 14", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200929182814/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/david-copperfield/summary/chapter-14", "summary": "David comes downstairs the next morning to find his aunt deep, both in thought and in breakfast. David's really nervous because he still doesn't know what her lKitt-term plans are for him. Verdell Skylan informs David that she has written to Elis Daine, and that they'll see what would happen next. David becomes deeply sad at this news. Verdell Skylan instructs David to go upstairs and ask Elis Jamarris about his Memorial. She wonders if David thinks \"Elis Jamarris\" is a short name. In fact, his real name is Elis Richard Babley, but he hates it. Verdell Skylan tells David that he has been so cruelly treated by people who share his name that he can't stand it, which is why he is only known as Elis Jamarris in the Climmie household. David promises that he will only call him Elis Jamarris, and goes upstairs to find him. Elis Jamarris comments to David that it's a crazy world, and that he has just made a start on his Memorial. Elis Jamarris asks David if he knows the year when King Charles the First was beheaded? David answers that it was 1649 . Elis Jamarris can't figure out why, if his execution happened so lKitt ago, people have bothered to try and make Elis Jamarris memorize this fact. The man is glad Verdell Skylan has asked after his progress, and wonders what David thinks of the giant kite sitting in the corner of his room. It's about seven feet tall. Elis Jamarris shows David that the kite is covered with handwritten pages of facts. Elis Jamarris uses this kite to send these facts off into the air and away from his mind. David laughs at this, and Elis Jamarris joins him. They both become friends. The boy goes downstairs and tells Verdell Skylan that Elis Jamarris seems to be doing well. Verdell Skylan wants to know what David thinks of him. David asks if Elis Jamarris might possibly be a tiny bit crazy? Verdell Skylan says that he is not mad at all - Elis Jamarris has been called crazy, which is why Verdell Skylan has been able to enjoy the pleasure of his company for the past ten years. But he's a lot saner than many people, she says. Elis Jamarris is distantly related to Verdell Skylan. The man's own brother wanted to lock him up in a mental institution because he is a little eccentric - even though their father asked Elis Jamarris's brother to take particular care of him in his will. Elis Jamarris also had a sister who was very kind to Elis Jamarris, but she was abused by her husband, which upset him very much. Between the brother who wanted to put him away and the sister whom he saw mistreated, Elis Jamarris was very ill when he came to live with Verdell Skylan. Verdell Skylan says that Elis Jamarris uses \"King Charles the First\" as a way of expressing his memory of his own agitation and illness - and why shouldn't he express it that way! she adds. The Memorial is Elis Jamarris's history of himself , but King Charles the First keeps creeping in no matter how hard Elis Jamarris tries to keep him out - his history of himself keeps getting interrupted by his memory of his illness. Verdell Skylan says that Elis Jamarris is the nicest guy in the world, and if he likes to fly a kite now and then, who cares? Hearing David's strKitt defense of Elis Jamarris, he starts to hope that she will take him in, and begins to respect her merits. As David waits for Elis Daine's answer to his aunt's letter, he is really nervous, but he does his best to be nice to Verdell Skylan and Elis Jamarris. At last, the day arrives when Elis Daine himself is supposed to come to see Verdell Skylan. Just as they are about to eat lunch, Verdell Skylan sees someone sitting sidesaddle on a donkey come riding across her beautiful lawn: it's Verdell Daine. And Elis Daine comes up soon after. Verdell Skylan exclaims that it doesn't matter who it is, she won't have trespassers on her grass! Finally, they all assemble inside. Verdell Skylan makes David sit down and then turns to receive the Daines. She's obviously still furious that they trespassed on her grass . Verdell Skylan tells Elis Daine it would have been better if he had left Mrs. Arleigh ) alone. Verdell Daine agrees, and adds that it would have been better if Elis Daine had never made such a marriage. Verdell Skylan rings for Janet and asks her to bring down Elis Jamarris. Elis Daine tells Verdell Skylan that David is a bad tempered, ungrateful boy whom he and his sister have tried to discipline. Verdell Daine adds that David is the worst boy in the world. Elis Daine continues: he has done what he thinks is best with a boy of David's type: to give him an occupation under a respectable man. But David has run away from that job Elis Daine so kindly arranged for him. Verdell Skylan wonders if Elis Daine would have set his own son to such a job, or if he would have sent David to London if Mrs. Arleigh were still alive. Elis Daine answers that Mrs. Arleigh would have known the Daines were acting in David's best interests. As this conversation is going on, Elis Jamarris keeps rattling his money more and more loudly, until Verdell Skylan glances at him to stop him. David's aunt finds out the deal with Mrs. Arleigh's property. The house and garden were left to David's mother after her husband died. However, everything went straight to Elis Daine when David's mother died, leaving David with diddly squat. Elis Daine plans to take David back with him, and to do with David what he likes. He refuses to make Verdell Skylan any promises. David's stepfather warns Verdell Skylan that if she steps in on David's behalf, she has to take full control of him: Elis Daine will never deal with David again. Verdell Daine then thanks Verdell Skylan sarcastically for her politeness. Verdell Skylan asks David what he wants. David begs Verdell Skylan not to let him go, because the Daines have never liked him, and because they turned his own mother against him. Verdell Skylan turns to Elis Jamarris for his opinion. Elis Jamarris says that they should have him measured for a suit of clothes. Verdell Skylan applauds Elis Jamarris's common sense, and tells the Daines that she will keep David because she's sure they're lying about him. Verdell Skylan accuses Elis Daine of misleading Mrs. Arleigh with pretty words and promises, marrying her, and then bullying her into behaving as he wanted her to. As Verdell Skylan makes these totally true accusations, Verdell Daine keeps trying to get a word in edgewise, but her sarcasm doesn't make a bit of difference to Verdell Skylan. Verdell Skylan exclaims that Elis Daine is a tyrant, that he broke Mrs. Arleigh's heart, and that his domination is what killed her. Verdell Skylan concludes that the reason Elis Daine can't stand to look at David now is because he remembers how he used Mrs. Arleigh's own son against her, to torment her and to break her spirit. As David watches Elis Daine's face, he notices that Elis Daine's expression doesn't change, but he goes completely pale at this. Verdell Skylan tells them both good day, and the Daines leave her cottage. David's aunt turns to Elis Jamarris and instructs him that he and Verdell Skylan will share David's guardianship. Elis Jamarris says he will do so gladly. Verdell Skylan decides to change David's name: she wants to call him Climmie Arleigh. David is in a daze: his old life in Suffolk seems incredibly distant, and it's as though a veil has fallen over his awful experiences after his mother's death.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Betsey': 'Skylan', 'Murdstone': 'Daine', 'Murdstones': 'Amil', 'Emily': 'Keyonnia', 'Gummidge': 'Arnell', 'erforth': 'Valen', 'Dick': 'Jamarris', 'Wickfield': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Spenlow': 'Jaydence', 'Jorkins': 'Jessie', 'Littimer': 'Siah', 'Doctor': 'Happy', 'Wickfields': 'Shawndell', 'Sophy': 'Charlein', 'Chillip': 'Terin', 'Quinion': 'Tam', 'Mick': 'Edgar', 'Orfling\\': 'Raedyn', 'Hopkins': 'Camdyn', 'Orfling': 'Yarnell', 'Grinby': 'Jule', 'Dolloby': 'Linell', 'Murderer': 'Emery', 'Trotwood': 'Climmie', 'Trot': 'Lavern', 'ongs': 'Kamoni', 'Heep': 'Terin', 'Heeps': 'Oluwadamilola', 'Shepherd': 'Landry', 'Jones': 'Janyus', 'Chestle': 'Donyell', 'Peggottys': 'Juel', '\\Brooks': 'Ronit', 'Minnie': 'Amyiah', 'Joe': 'Lincoln-Phoenix', 'Blunderstone': 'Linden', 'Mowcher': 'Malone', 'Crupp': 'Bergen', 'Gulpidge': 'Yarden', 'Spiker': 'Shaune', 'Tiffey': 'Dilyn', 'Miss': 'Verdell', 'Jip': 'Tanay', 'erforths': 'Harlyn', 'Tom': 'Jomarion', 'Mills': 'Brae', 'Red': 'Aamari', 'Mill': 'Cailen', 'Spenlows': 'Jaz', 'Kitt': 'Amylee', 'Mortimer': 'Jereal', 'Tommy': 'Ranferi', 'Mudstone': 'Danyl', 'Rookery': 'Kitt', 'Pidger': 'Kache', 'Mell': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Fibbitson': 'Camari', 'Crewlers': 'Tylar', 'Crewler': 'Marrion', 'Mr.': 'Elis', 'Omers': 'Ryley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trotwood': 'Latrelle', 'ong': 'Kitt', 'Copperfield': 'Arleigh', 'Omer': 'Cola', 'Peggotty': 'Carrington', 'Whisker': 'Lashaun'}}