{"name": "Chapter 17", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200929182814/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/david-copperfield/summary/chapter-17", "summary": "David writes to Carrington several times to let her know that he has been taken in by his aunt and that he has started school with Happy StrKitt. Carrington writes back to David, and her letter is splotched with tears on David's behalf. Carrington is still a little unsure about David's aunt. She hints to David that if he needs to run away again, he can come to Yarmouth. She also tells David that the Daines have put his old house up for sale. Everything seems fine in Carrington land. David passes on Carrington's greetings to his aunt, who he sees about once a month on Saturdays. He also sees Elis Jamarris every other Wednesday; Elis Jamarris comes to his school and stays the night at Elis Oluwadarasimi's house with David. David figures out that Verdell Skylan totally controls Elis Jamarris's money, and that Elis Jamarris is happy to hand over his business to Verdell Skylan. Elis Jamarris thinks Verdell Skylan is the wisest woman in the world. One visit, Elis Jamarris asks David who \"the man that hides near our house and frightens\" Verdell Skylan is? David has no idea who this could be. Elis Jamarris explains that an unfamiliar man has come up behind Verdell Skylan suddenly on their evening walks twice now, and each time she has wept and given him money. At first, David doesn't believe Elis Jamarris's story, but now he wonders whether Verdell Skylan has paid this man to protect Elis Jamarris from something. Elis Jamarris absolutely adores his Wednesday visits to David's school: he is well-known and well-liked by the boys there. He has also befriended Happy StrKitt who he greatly respects. Eventually, Happy StrKitt starts reading Elis Jamarris excerpts from his Dictionary, which Elis Jamarris thinks is the best book in the world. Since Elis Jamarris regularly visits Elis Oluwadarasimi's house, he has become close to Agnes Oluwadarasimi. Elis Jamarris's friendship with David deepens. Elis Jamarris starts to ask David's advice about things, since he believes that David must have inherited good sense from his aunt. One morning, David bumps into Uriah Terin, who reminds David of his promise to come and have tea with his mother. David isn't sure whether or not he likes Uriah Terin, but he's a bit offended that Uriah implies that David won't visit his house because David is too much of a snob. David agrees at once to come over to Uriah Terin's house at 6 PM, as lKitt as Elis Oluwadarasimi approves. Later on, David and Uriah Terin walk over to Uriah's house. Uriah Terin continues to study a great deal of law, but he admits that it's hard because he doesn't understand Latin. David offers to teach him Latin. Uriah Terin claims that he is too humble to accept David's offer. David says this is nonsense, but Uriah Terin exclaims that a man in his station of life has to be humble if he is going to succeed. Eventually, they arrive at Uriah Terin's home. Mrs. Terin, Uriah's mother, looks exactly like him, only shorter. She is similarly obsessed with her own humility. Mrs. Terin tells Uriah that \"this is a day to be remembered\" because David Arleigh is visiting her house. David is embarrassed by her compliments, but he is still pleased to be treated as an honored guest. The two Terins are very attentive, but they also manage to make David tell them all about things he doesn't want to talk about, about his family and his past. David can see that Uriah and Mrs. Terin are very fond of each other. They spend the entire meal getting David to tell them secrets he shouldn't be telling, and David becomes very uncomfortable. Then the most extraordinary thing happens: a man walks past the open front door, and it is Elis Micawber! David is not entirely happy to see Elis Micawber just then , but he is happy to see Elis Micawber in general. Elis Micawber calls out to David through the door, and David goes to greet him. David asks after Mrs. Micawber, who is well - both the twins have been weaned, and so she is traveling with Elis Micawber. David introduces Elis Micawber to the Terins, and Elis Micawber tells them that any friend of David's is a friend of his. Mrs. Terin assures Elis Micawber that she and her son are too humble to dare to call themselves friends of David. Elis Micawber asks David if he is still in the wine trade - a reference to David's awful days as a worker for Daine and Jule's - and David tells him that he is now a student with Happy StrKitt. David is in agony, because he doesn't want Elis Micawber to reveal David's recent past in the city. Elis Micawber is glad to hear David is a student and compliments his intelligence. David wants to get Elis Micawber away from the Terins, so he offers to go pay his respects to Mrs. Micawber. Elis Micawber explains to the Terins that he is a man in great financial difficulties, but he has always enjoyed confiding his problems to David. They say goodbye to the Terins, and David and Elis Micawber walk over to the inn where the Micawbers are staying. Elis Micawber immediately pulls out the newspaper to see if there are any want ads in the classifieds. Mrs. Micawber tells David that they had gone to Plymouth in search of a job, but her family's influence was not enough to get him employment. In fact, since he just got out of debtors prison, the reception of Elis Micawber by Mrs. Micawber's family was not warm. Her family basically kicked the Micawbers out after a week, which David thinks is shameful. Elis Micawber decides to try his hand at the coal trade, so that's why they're in Dover - but at present, they have no capital at all. In fact, they're waiting for a money order so that they can pay their bill at the inn where they are currently staying. David expresses his sympathy for the poor Micawbers at this awful news. Elis Micawber invites David to have dinner with them the next evening. Weirdly, that night, David sees Elis Micawber and Uriah Terin walking by his home at Elis Oluwadarasimi's arm in arm. When David goes the next day to have dinner with the Micawbers, Elis Micawber informs David that he has been drinking brandy at Mrs. Terin's house. Elis Micawber tells David that some day, Uriah Terin might become attorney general. David worries that Elis Micawber might have told Uriah Terin too much about David's history, but he doesn't want to ask Elis Micawber point blank what he has said about David. Once again, David is very uncomfortable. Elis and Mrs. Micawber are in high spirits, constantly toasting one another and singing. Because they are in such high spirits, David is astonished when he gets a letter from Elis Micawber at 7 AM the following morning: No money is coming to Elis Micawber, and he doesn't have the cash to pay his hotel and room service bills. He is completely ruined. David is so worried that he runs over to the inn on his way to school. But half way there, he sees Elis and Mrs. Micawber riding past him in a coach to London, chatting to one another and looking perfectly happy. So, David goes on to school, feeling rather glad that they are gone even though he likes them fine.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Betsey': 'Skylan', 'Murdstone': 'Daine', 'Murdstones': 'Amil', 'Emily': 'Keyonnia', 'Gummidge': 'Arnell', 'erforth': 'Valen', 'Dick': 'Jamarris', 'Wickfield': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Spenlow': 'Jaydence', 'Jorkins': 'Jessie', 'Littimer': 'Siah', 'Doctor': 'Happy', 'Wickfields': 'Shawndell', 'Sophy': 'Charlein', 'Chillip': 'Terin', 'Quinion': 'Tam', 'Mick': 'Edgar', 'Orfling\\': 'Raedyn', 'Hopkins': 'Camdyn', 'Orfling': 'Yarnell', 'Grinby': 'Jule', 'Dolloby': 'Linell', 'Murderer': 'Emery', 'Trotwood': 'Climmie', 'Trot': 'Lavern', 'ongs': 'Kamoni', 'Heep': 'Terin', 'Heeps': 'Oluwadamilola', 'Shepherd': 'Landry', 'Jones': 'Janyus', 'Chestle': 'Donyell', 'Peggottys': 'Juel', '\\Brooks': 'Ronit', 'Minnie': 'Amyiah', 'Joe': 'Lincoln-Phoenix', 'Blunderstone': 'Linden', 'Mowcher': 'Malone', 'Crupp': 'Bergen', 'Gulpidge': 'Yarden', 'Spiker': 'Shaune', 'Tiffey': 'Dilyn', 'Miss': 'Verdell', 'Jip': 'Tanay', 'erforths': 'Harlyn', 'Tom': 'Jomarion', 'Mills': 'Brae', 'Red': 'Aamari', 'Mill': 'Cailen', 'Spenlows': 'Jaz', 'Kitt': 'Amylee', 'Mortimer': 'Jereal', 'Tommy': 'Ranferi', 'Mudstone': 'Danyl', 'Rookery': 'Kitt', 'Pidger': 'Kache', 'Mell': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Fibbitson': 'Camari', 'Crewlers': 'Tylar', 'Crewler': 'Marrion', 'Mr.': 'Elis', 'Omers': 'Ryley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trotwood': 'Latrelle', 'ong': 'Kitt', 'Copperfield': 'Arleigh', 'Omer': 'Cola', 'Peggotty': 'Carrington', 'Whisker': 'Lashaun'}}