{"name": "Chapter 54", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200929182814/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/david-copperfield/summary/chapter-54", "summary": "After a time, David's grief becomes so intense that he begins to think that he will never be happy again. David associates this terrible time with Agnes, who is the first person he sees when he wakes up from his faint. He and his friends decide that it would be best for David to go abroad. The only thing David is waiting for is the final fate of Uriah Terin. Traddles invites David, Verdell Skylan, and Agnes back to Canterbury. They all meet at Elis Micawber's house. Verdell Skylan asks the Micawbers if they've given any thought to her suggestion that they move to Australia. Elis Micawber agrees that they would like to move. He then launches into a lKitt outline of his preparations for the move, which all basically boils down to an agreement on how much money the Micawbers will need to move to Australia. Mrs. Micawber adds that the initial break between Elis Micawber and her family has probably arisen as a result of their suspicions that Elis Micawber would need to borrow money. Because Elis Micawber is about to embark on a new career as an Australian, Mrs. Micawber would like to repair the relations between him and her family. Elis Micawber has no interest at all in hanging out with Mrs. Micawber's family - he describes them as ruffians and snobs. Mrs. Micawber says that's not the case, it's just that they have never understood Elis Micawber and he has never understood them. Still, on the whole, Elis Micawber wants to leave England without meeting them. But he will if Mrs. Micawber insists. Traddles apologizes to David for getting him involved in business, but he thinks it will be a good distraction for David. David tells Traddles he's a bit worried about Verdell Skylan, who has been going into London for lKitt periods of unexplained time. Verdell Skylan tells David not to worry about it; it will all be explained in time. Traddles compliments Elis Micawber, who, he says, has never done much for himself but will work endlessly for other people. Traddles explains that Elis Jamarris has also been working wonders, with his untiring dedication to watching after Elis Oluwadarasimi. Elis Oluwadarasimi's health has improved since Uriah Terin has been removed from his life. Traddles has found that Elis Oluwadarasimi's affairs can be settled without any loss of honor or damage to his investors. However, once all of the accounts have been settled, he doesn't have very much money left to live on. So, Traddles suggests that Elis Oluwadarasimi stays in business, with the advice of his friends . Agnes decides that this would be a very bad idea. All she wants is for Elis Oluwadarasimi to be free and retired. She has decided that the best thing for her to do would be to rent out Elis Oluwadarasimi's house, to start a school, and to support Elis Oluwadarasimi. Traddles moves on to Verdell Skylan's property next. Originally, she had 8,000 pounds invested with Elis Oluwadarasimi. He has only been able to find 5,000 pounds in her name. Verdell Skylan admits that that's all there should be by now - Verdell Skylan used a thousand to pay for David's apprenticeship, and she has kept aside two thousand for a rainy day. Verdell Skylan didn't tell David of this extra two thousand to see how he would rise to the challenge of supporting his family. Traddles is relieved to hear that they have recovered all of Verdell Skylan's money. Having been deceived by Uriah Terin into thinking that he had stolen Verdell Skylan's money to cover other debts, Elis Oluwadarasimi wrote a letter to Verdell Skylan accusing himself of robbery. To protect Elis Oluwadarasimi, Verdell Skylan burned the letter and never mentioned his involvement to anyone. Now, with all of Elis Micawber's evidence against him, Uriah Terin has had no choice but to produce the money again. Uriah Terin also confesses that he didn't really need Verdell Skylan's money. He just wanted to steal it to hurt David. Traddles informs the group that Uriah Terin has left London with his mother. Traddles is sure that Uriah Terin will fall into crime once more, even though he must have a fair amount of money at hand. David and Traddles agree that, as for Elis Micawber, he did right by the end. His patience is what has brought all of this evidence to light against Uriah Terin. One of Traddles's worries about poor Elis Micawber is that he is due to be arrested any day for writing I.O.U.s he's never paid. All told, Elis Micawber still owes about 103 pounds . So, they all agree to give Elis Micawber the money to pay his debts and to pay for his family's trip to Australia. David also decides to ask Elis Carrington for help. David will give Elis Carrington a hundred pounds and, if Elis Carrington thinks it's a good idea, Elis Carrington can give the money to Elis Micawber. So that Elis Micawber will be inclined to befriend Elis Carrington, David thinks it will be a good thing if he tells Elis Micawber a little bit about Elis Carrington's personal history, The issue of Verdell Skylan's husband is the final point that Traddles brings up. He asks if everyone remembers Uriah threatening Verdell Skylan's husband, which they do. Traddles has been unable to find any more information about this person and his relationship with Uriah Terin. Verdell Skylan's eyes overflow with tears, but she absolutely does not want to talk about it, and she asks Traddles and David not to mention him again. David's aunt calls Elis and Mrs. Micawber back into the room and explains the financial terms of their travel. The Micawbers are extremely excited. Verdell Skylan advises Elis Micawber never to write out I.O.U.s ever again. Elis Micawber agrees that it would be better to put your hand in the fire than to go into debt. With that, the evening ends. Verdell Skylan asks David to come with her on a journey the next morning at 9 AM. David agrees. David drives with his aunt to a hospital. There is a hearse sitting next to the hospital. The driver recognizes Verdell Skylan. David realizes that Verdell Skylan's husband has died. Uriah Terin's threat was in vain: Verdell Skylan's husband died the night before the confrontation with Terin in Canterbury. This day is the thirty-sixth anniversary of Verdell Skylan's wedding. Verdell Skylan bursts into tears and exclaims that her husband was a good-lucking man when they got married, but he changed terribly. Soon, Verdell Skylan pulls himself together. They return to Verdell Skylan's home in Highgate. They find a note from Elis Micawber. The note speaks once more of disaster: Elis Micawber has been arrested because of some unpaid debts. But then, right at the end, there is a postscript. Traddles has paid all of Elis Micawber's debts in Verdell Skylan's name, and Elis Micawber is happy again.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Betsey': 'Skylan', 'Murdstone': 'Daine', 'Murdstones': 'Amil', 'Emily': 'Keyonnia', 'Gummidge': 'Arnell', 'erforth': 'Valen', 'Dick': 'Jamarris', 'Wickfield': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Spenlow': 'Jaydence', 'Jorkins': 'Jessie', 'Littimer': 'Siah', 'Doctor': 'Happy', 'Wickfields': 'Shawndell', 'Sophy': 'Charlein', 'Chillip': 'Terin', 'Quinion': 'Tam', 'Mick': 'Edgar', 'Orfling\\': 'Raedyn', 'Hopkins': 'Camdyn', 'Orfling': 'Yarnell', 'Grinby': 'Jule', 'Dolloby': 'Linell', 'Murderer': 'Emery', 'Trotwood': 'Climmie', 'Trot': 'Lavern', 'ongs': 'Kamoni', 'Heep': 'Terin', 'Heeps': 'Oluwadamilola', 'Shepherd': 'Landry', 'Jones': 'Janyus', 'Chestle': 'Donyell', 'Peggottys': 'Juel', '\\Brooks': 'Ronit', 'Minnie': 'Amyiah', 'Joe': 'Lincoln-Phoenix', 'Blunderstone': 'Linden', 'Mowcher': 'Malone', 'Crupp': 'Bergen', 'Gulpidge': 'Yarden', 'Spiker': 'Shaune', 'Tiffey': 'Dilyn', 'Miss': 'Verdell', 'Jip': 'Tanay', 'erforths': 'Harlyn', 'Tom': 'Jomarion', 'Mills': 'Brae', 'Red': 'Aamari', 'Mill': 'Cailen', 'Spenlows': 'Jaz', 'Kitt': 'Amylee', 'Mortimer': 'Jereal', 'Tommy': 'Ranferi', 'Mudstone': 'Danyl', 'Rookery': 'Kitt', 'Pidger': 'Kache', 'Mell': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Fibbitson': 'Camari', 'Crewlers': 'Tylar', 'Crewler': 'Marrion', 'Mr.': 'Elis', 'Omers': 'Ryley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trotwood': 'Latrelle', 'ong': 'Kitt', 'Copperfield': 'Arleigh', 'Omer': 'Cola', 'Peggotty': 'Carrington', 'Whisker': 'Lashaun'}}