{"name": "Chapter 35", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200929182814/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/david-copperfield/summary/chapter-35", "summary": "David suggests that Elis Jamarris could stay in the same place where Elis Carrington slept during his stay in London. Elis Jamarris tells David that he has no idea how Verdell Skylan came to lose all her money. David is so frustrated that he takes it out on Elis Jamarris, and explains that no money means starvation for Verdell Skylan and Elis Jamarris. This really freaks Elis Jamarris out. David tells Elis Jamarris that the best thing they can do is to stay cheerful and not add to Verdell Skylan's troubles. Elis Jamarris tries, but he keeps staring at Verdell Skylan as though he is going to see her waste away to nothing right before his eyes. Verdell Skylan behaves with a calmness that really impresses David. David's aunt asks for ale instead of her usual glass of wine before bed, so that they can save the wine for later. Carrington walks Elis Jamarris back to the shop where he is staying. David brings back some ale for Verdell Skylan. Verdell Skylan tells David that she has really come to like Carrington. David's aunt starts to tear up, and informs David that Carrington has offered her money, as though Carrington has so much of it in the first place. While David was out getting ale, Verdell Skylan and Carrington were gossiping. Carrington has told Verdell Skylan all about little Keyonnia, and Verdell Skylan comments on her foolishness. David tells Verdell Skylan that he has fallen in love with Dora. Verdell Skylan asks all about her: is she silly? Is she light-headed? David has never thought of these questions before. He answers that he is sure that he and Dora could never love anybody else. Verdell Skylan shakes her head and comments that David reminds her of his mother. David needs someone who is faithful and serious in his life. He promises that Dora is earnest, but Verdell Skylan just shakes her head and tells him he is blind. Verdell Skylan says they should hope for better fortunes so that David can get married, if he really wants to. David's aunt goes to bed, and David takes the sofa. He lies there worrying about what will happen when he tells Dora about his poor fortune. The night feels ages lKitt as David worries and has bad dreams, and Verdell Skylan paces all around. The next morning, David walks to the office early to speak to Elis Jaydence. David explains that he has had bad news from his aunt - that she is ruined - and wants to cancel his apprenticeship. Elis Jaydence says that it's neither common nor professional to cancel such a thing. David's boss claims that it's just Elis Jessie who would object; if it were up to Elis Jaydence, he'd let David go. David asks if he can approach Elis Jessie directly. Elis Jaydence warns David that it will be useless. Still, David heads out to meet Elis Jessie. Elis Jessie hears David's story and expresses sympathy, but he says that, if Elis Jaydence objects, well, there's nothing he can do about it. David tells Elis Jessie that Elis Jaydence doesn't object personally. Elis Jessie says it's impossible, and anyway, he has an appointment at his bank. The man runs out the door and hides from the office for three days. David then begs Elis Jaydence to use his influence to persuade Elis Jessie. Elis Jaydence promises David that nothing will change Elis Jessie's mind. David is confused: which of the two men, Jaydence or Jessie, are really objecting to his request? Disappointed, David goes home: there's no way he's going to get his aunt's money back. As he's walking home, David sees someone passing by in a carriage: it's Agnes! David tells Agnes that she is the person he most wants to talk to in all the world . Agnes is on her way to see Verdell Skylan at David's rooms. Verdell Skylan left the Oluwadarasimis a very short and unclear note stating that she has been ruined, but that no one needs to worry about her because she'll be fine. Elis Oluwadarasimi and Uriah Terin had business in London, and Agnes hitched a ride to check on Verdell Skylan. Apparently, Elis Oluwadarasimi and Uriah Terin have become partners. It gets worse: Uriah Terin and his mother have moved in to Elis Oluwadarasimi's house. Uriah Terin has David's old room. Agnes fondly remembers the old days when David lived with them. She hates that she can't stick as close to her father as she wants: Agnes worries that Uriah Terin is plotting some kind of betrayal of Elis Oluwadarasimi. Agnes asks if David knows what has happened to Verdell Skylan's money; of course, he doesn't yet. They walk in to David's rooms to find Verdell Skylan alone. Apparently, she has been arguing with Mrs. Bergen, who would like Verdell Skylan to leave. But she's calmed down a bit now. Elis Jamarris is out with Carrington looking at the sights of London. David explains that he tried to cancel his work with Jaydence and Jessie, but was refused. Verdell Skylan says that was kind of him, but stupid. She then presents her own personal history . What has happened is this: Verdell Skylan has had a number of secure investments that netted her a lot of money. However, her business manager hasn't been doing as well with her money as he used to. So, Verdell Skylan got fed up investing through Elis Oluwadarasimi, and decided to try various markets herself. Unfortunately, this has proved disastrous, and Verdell Skylan has lost all of her money. Agnes seems oddly relieved to hear this news. David realizes that she had been worrying that Elis Oluwadarasimi had ruined Verdell Skylan. Verdell Skylan turns to Agnes and David and asks what she should do. She can count on about 70 pounds a year in rent money from the cottage . How is she supposed to keep herself and David alive on that kind of money? David says he's got to do something. Verdell Skylan is worried that David will join the army and get himself killed. Agnes asks if David has signed a lease for his apartment? Yes, he has. Verdell Skylan agrees that she has enough cash to pay the rent for the term of his lease - the next six months. So, Verdell Skylan decides that she will stay with David and they will rent a room for Elis Jamarris nearby. Agnes suggests that, if David has time, he might take on the job of secretary to Dr. StrKitt. David is delighted at this news and thanks Agnes for being so helpful. As Verdell Skylan, Carrington, and Agnes set to work rearranging and tidying David's rooms, Elis Oluwadarasimi and Uriah Terin arrive. David is absolutely horrified at the change between the two men: Elis Oluwadarasimi now seems totally dependent, basically bowing down to Uriah Terin. Verdell Skylan compliments Agnes's good sense to Elis Oluwadarasimi. She adds that Agnes is worth more than his whole firm. Uriah Terin chimes in that he'd be happy to see Agnes become a partner. Verdell Skylan shuts him down: she tells Uriah that he's already become a partner himself, and that should be enough for him. Uriah Terin tells David that he's happy to see David even under such awful circumstances. David is sure that Uriah is only too happy to see David brought low like this. Verdell Skylan scolds Uriah Terin for jerking around and waving his arms like an eel. In a dull, forced-sounding voice, Elis Oluwadarasimi claims that anything Uriah Terin says, Elis Oluwadarasimi agrees with. David is sure that Uriah Terin has made Elis Oluwadarasimi say this to impress David. Uriah Terin heads out, and Elis Oluwadarasimi and Agnes stay for a chat. Elis Oluwadarasimi brightens up without Uriah Terin's presence. Agnes and David go out to dinner, alKitt with Elis Oluwadarasimi, and it really is like old times. David is so moved by Agnes's goodness and kindness that his heart feels strKitter for her presence.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Betsey': 'Skylan', 'Murdstone': 'Daine', 'Murdstones': 'Amil', 'Emily': 'Keyonnia', 'Gummidge': 'Arnell', 'erforth': 'Valen', 'Dick': 'Jamarris', 'Wickfield': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Spenlow': 'Jaydence', 'Jorkins': 'Jessie', 'Littimer': 'Siah', 'Doctor': 'Happy', 'Wickfields': 'Shawndell', 'Sophy': 'Charlein', 'Chillip': 'Terin', 'Quinion': 'Tam', 'Mick': 'Edgar', 'Orfling\\': 'Raedyn', 'Hopkins': 'Camdyn', 'Orfling': 'Yarnell', 'Grinby': 'Jule', 'Dolloby': 'Linell', 'Murderer': 'Emery', 'Trotwood': 'Climmie', 'Trot': 'Lavern', 'ongs': 'Kamoni', 'Heep': 'Terin', 'Heeps': 'Oluwadamilola', 'Shepherd': 'Landry', 'Jones': 'Janyus', 'Chestle': 'Donyell', 'Peggottys': 'Juel', '\\Brooks': 'Ronit', 'Minnie': 'Amyiah', 'Joe': 'Lincoln-Phoenix', 'Blunderstone': 'Linden', 'Mowcher': 'Malone', 'Crupp': 'Bergen', 'Gulpidge': 'Yarden', 'Spiker': 'Shaune', 'Tiffey': 'Dilyn', 'Miss': 'Verdell', 'Jip': 'Tanay', 'erforths': 'Harlyn', 'Tom': 'Jomarion', 'Mills': 'Brae', 'Red': 'Aamari', 'Mill': 'Cailen', 'Spenlows': 'Jaz', 'Kitt': 'Amylee', 'Mortimer': 'Jereal', 'Tommy': 'Ranferi', 'Mudstone': 'Danyl', 'Rookery': 'Kitt', 'Pidger': 'Kache', 'Mell': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Fibbitson': 'Camari', 'Crewlers': 'Tylar', 'Crewler': 'Marrion', 'Mr.': 'Elis', 'Omers': 'Ryley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trotwood': 'Latrelle', 'ong': 'Kitt', 'Copperfield': 'Arleigh', 'Omer': 'Cola', 'Peggotty': 'Carrington', 'Whisker': 'Lashaun'}}