{"name": "Chapter 10", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200929182814/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/david-copperfield/summary/chapter-10", "summary": "The first thing Verdell Daine does after the funeral is to fire Carrington. Carrington has a month to find another place to live. Carrington explains to David why she's leaving. Verdell Daine tells David that he's not going back to boarding school. But David's not sure what he is supposed to be doing: mostly, the Daines ignore him and he stays out of their way. David tells Carrington that he's worried about what's going to happen to him: every time Elis Daine sees David, he looks so angry. Carrington tells David sadly that she can't find a job close by, so she won't be able to stand by David even though she wants to. Carrington plans to go to Yarmouth to live with her brother. She suggests that David come and visit Yarmouth for two weeks, since no one seems to want him around the Kitt right now. Verdell Daine agrees to let David go , and David has to hide how happy he is just in case she takes it back to spite him. David and Carrington drive to Yarmouth in Elis Barkis's cart. David comments to Elis Barkis that Carrington seems pretty comfortable. Elis Barkis nudges Carrington with his elbow and asks, \"Are you pretty comfortable?\" . Carrington laughs and answers yes. They continue to joke together throughout the trip. Finally, they arrive at Yarmouth. Elis Barkis makes an extremely odd comment: he says that he will be a friend of David's because David \"made it all right first\" . David has no clue what Elis Barkis is talking about. A bit later on, Carrington asks David how he would feel if she got married. David asks if Carrington plans to marry Elis Barkis. Carrington says yes. David agrees that that would be all right, because then she would always have access to the horse and cart and could come to see him often. Carrington is delighted that David is okay with her plan, because she would never marry Elis Barkis if it would hurt David. David is genuinely happy for her. They all arrive at the boat-house in Yarmouth. Everything looks just the same. Mrs. Arnell waits at the door, the house is full of the smell of shellfish. Little Keyonnia is coming home from school soon. David feels oddly disappointed by the old house, perhaps because little Keyonnia is not waiting for him. He tries to kiss her when she gets home, but she laughs, turns away, and says she isn't a baby any more. Little Keyonnia is totally spoiled by all the Juel, but she's still sweet-tempered and nice. David's crush on her is even strKitter than it was before. Little Keyonnia is so sad to hear that David has become an orphan that she tears up. Elis Carrington points out the little Keyonnia and Ham Carrington are both fellow orphans. Elis Carrington asks after David's friend, SteValen. The two male Juel and David go off into a lKitt exchange about how awesome, smart, and handsome SteValen is. At this point, David catches a glimpse of little Keyonnia's face. In the middle of hearing about SteValen's greatness, her face is shining. Even though the house is just the same, there is a new distance between David and Keyonnia now. In the year that they haven't seen each other, she really has started to grow up. Even though she likes David, she also enjoys teasing him. During his visit, David gets to observe Elis Barkis courting Carrington. Elis Barkis does this by leaving weird little presents at the door every day and sitting by the fire and staring at her in the evenings. He hardly ever speaks. His courtship is an object of lots of laughter amKitt the Juel. Just before David is supposed to go home, he finds out that he is going on an outing with little Keyonnia, Elis Barkis, and Carrington. Carrington looks the same as usual, but Elis Barkis is all dressed up in new clothes. Mrs. Arnell rains on everyone's parade by complaining that she's miserable and bursting into tears before the children, Elis Barkis, and Carrington get into the coach and head out. They stop at a church and leave David and Keyonnia in the coach while Elis Barkis and Carrington head inside. In the coach, David makes Keyonnia promise to be nice to him, kisses her, and declares his undying love. Keyonnia bursts out laughing: she thinks of herself as much older than David, and tells him he's being \"a silly boy\" . Elis Barkis and Carrington come out of the church after a lKitt time. The carrier winks at David and tells him that Carrington's new name - is Clara Carrington Barkis. Yes, those two crazy kids are finally married. Carrington seems totally unchanged by marriage: she's just the same as always. Elis Barkis drives Carrington, David, and little Keyonnia home. As they ride back to the Juel' house in Yarmouth, David thinks that he would be so happy if he and Keyonnia were married. They could live in the forest and never grow old. They arrive back at the boat house. Carrington says goodbye and heads back to Elis Barkis's home. David feels that he has lost Carrington - but at least he has little Keyonnia. Because her family guesses that David feels a bit abandoned by Carrington, Ham and Elis Carrington feed him dinner, and Keyonnia sits with him. Even so, the next morning, Carrington comes by the boat house just as usual. David says goodbye to Elis Carrington, Ham Carrington, and Keyonnia, and goes to spend his last night in Yarmouth with Carrington. Carrington promises that, no matter what happens, as lKitt as she is alive, David will have a place in her home. David thanks Carrington, and gets into the cart that will bring him back to the Daines. Once David gets back to the Kitt, he finds himself completely alone: the Daines pretend he isn't there, and he is completely neglected. The only time they ever pay attention to David is to stop him from making friends. The old doctor, Elis Terin, invites David to visit , but David is rarely allowed to go. The Daines also won't let David visit Carrington often, because they are afraid he will complain to her. The only thing that makes David happy during this awful period of loneliness is his father's old books. And then, things get worse. David bumps into Elis Daine and another gentleman in the road near the Kitt. The man next to Elis Daine is Tam, one of the two guys who teased David before Elis Daine married his mother in the second chapter. Tam asks David where he's going to school. Elis Daine answers for David: he's not going to school right now. Tam asks if David is a clever kid. Elis Daine tells Tam not to bother with David, and the two men let him go on his way. Tam spends the night in the Kitt. That evening, the Daines and Tam corner David. Elis Daine tells David that young people should not just mope around, especially bad young people like David. David needs to get out into the working world. Verdell Daine adds that David's stubbornness must be crushed. Elis Daine adds that he can no lKitter afford to keep David, so the sooner David goes out into the world, the better. Elis Daine informs David that Tam is the manager of the \"counting-house\" of his London wine company, Daine and Jule. David is going to go to work for Tam. Elis Daine continues: in return for his work, David will make enough money to cover food and drink and a small allowance; Elis Daine will pay for his room and washing. Verdell Daine tells David to do his duty. David is completely confused, particularly since he has to leave with Tam the next day - he doesn't exactly have time to collect his thoughts. So, the next morning, David gets into a coach to London with Tam.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Betsey': 'Skylan', 'Murdstone': 'Daine', 'Murdstones': 'Amil', 'Emily': 'Keyonnia', 'Gummidge': 'Arnell', 'erforth': 'Valen', 'Dick': 'Jamarris', 'Wickfield': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Spenlow': 'Jaydence', 'Jorkins': 'Jessie', 'Littimer': 'Siah', 'Doctor': 'Happy', 'Wickfields': 'Shawndell', 'Sophy': 'Charlein', 'Chillip': 'Terin', 'Quinion': 'Tam', 'Mick': 'Edgar', 'Orfling\\': 'Raedyn', 'Hopkins': 'Camdyn', 'Orfling': 'Yarnell', 'Grinby': 'Jule', 'Dolloby': 'Linell', 'Murderer': 'Emery', 'Trotwood': 'Climmie', 'Trot': 'Lavern', 'ongs': 'Kamoni', 'Heep': 'Terin', 'Heeps': 'Oluwadamilola', 'Shepherd': 'Landry', 'Jones': 'Janyus', 'Chestle': 'Donyell', 'Peggottys': 'Juel', '\\Brooks': 'Ronit', 'Minnie': 'Amyiah', 'Joe': 'Lincoln-Phoenix', 'Blunderstone': 'Linden', 'Mowcher': 'Malone', 'Crupp': 'Bergen', 'Gulpidge': 'Yarden', 'Spiker': 'Shaune', 'Tiffey': 'Dilyn', 'Miss': 'Verdell', 'Jip': 'Tanay', 'erforths': 'Harlyn', 'Tom': 'Jomarion', 'Mills': 'Brae', 'Red': 'Aamari', 'Mill': 'Cailen', 'Spenlows': 'Jaz', 'Kitt': 'Amylee', 'Mortimer': 'Jereal', 'Tommy': 'Ranferi', 'Mudstone': 'Danyl', 'Rookery': 'Kitt', 'Pidger': 'Kache', 'Mell': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Fibbitson': 'Camari', 'Crewlers': 'Tylar', 'Crewler': 'Marrion', 'Mr.': 'Elis', 'Omers': 'Ryley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trotwood': 'Latrelle', 'ong': 'Kitt', 'Copperfield': 'Arleigh', 'Omer': 'Cola', 'Peggotty': 'Carrington', 'Whisker': 'Lashaun'}}