{"name": "Chapter 38", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200929182814/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/david-copperfield/summary/chapter-38", "summary": "David continues with his plan on reporting on Parliamentary Debates. He learns shorthand, but it is really hard. Traddles, Verdell Skylan, and Elis Jamarris help him to learn by staging debates slowly, with pauses for him to catch up. David really is working very hard: he is always on time at both Happy StrKitt's home and at the law offices. One day, he finds Elis Jaydence muttering to himself and looking cold and reserved. Elis Jaydence asks David to follow him to a coffee shop. David worries that Elis Jaydence has found out about his engagement to Dora. Once they arrive at one of the private rooms of the coffee shop, they find Verdell Daine waiting for them. . Verdell Daine is holding several letters in David's handwriting written to Dora. She continues that she has lKitt suspected Dora of loving David, but she hasn't had any evidence until now. Verdell Daine did notice that, since she returned from her brother's wedding, Dora has been getting an awful lot of letters from Verdell Brae. Unluckily, Tanay happened to be playing with one of these letters in Verdell Daine's presence. She saved it from the dog, read it, and found that it was from David. Verdell Daine then managed to bully Dora into giving up all of David's love letters. Elis Jaydence asks David to explain himself. David says that the fault is all his, not Dora's. Elis Jaydence answers that David is to blame, for sneaking into his house and keeping this whole love affair a secret. Dora's father says that David cannot truly love Dora because he hasn't considered Dora's station in life or potential future with David. David agrees that it's true that he hasn't though much of the future, but they are engaged. Elis Jaydence tells David not to talk about engagements. It's all nonsense, and he insists that David stop thinking of Dora. Forget about the past, Elis Jaydence encourages David. David doesn't want to make Elis Jaydence angry, but he does tell him that he's committed to Dora. Elis Jaydence answers that he's going to influence Dora to forget the whole thing. Verdell Daine snorts, suggesting that it's about time that Elis Jaydence intervene. David is slowly edging towards the door when Elis Jaydence tells David that he has money to leave to his daughter. David protests that he's not in this for the money. Elis Jaydence is sure that David isn't, but even so - he's thinking about changing his will to include conditions against foolish marriages. Elis Jaydence gives David a week to consider this, a week that David won't use: he can't deprive Dora and himself a chance at happiness. Verdell Daine stares after David the same way she used to when he messed up his lessons. David sits in his little office and writes a letter to Elis Jaydence begging him not to frighten Dora further, nor to make her cry. He leaves the letter on Elis Jaydence's desk. Elis Jaydence warns David that, if he keeps on about this, Elis Jaydence will have to send Dora abroad again. David then writes to Verdell Brae and asks to meet her. Verdell Brae weeps with David and promises to go to Dora the next morning to reassure her of David's commitment. Verdell Brae seems to be enjoying all of this love drama. David then passes all of this news on to Verdell Skylan, who tries to comfort him. The next day, David goes in to the office, which is odd. All of the clerks, including Elis Dilyn, are standing around and not working. Elis Dilyn gives David the news: Elis Jaydence is dead. David staggers, and the clerks help him to a chair. Elis Jaydence's usual carriage arrived home without him. They found Elis Jaydence's body about a mile back on the road. He appears to have either fallen or jumped out of the coach on his way home and been overcome by a sudden illness. David is absolutely shocked. He also feels a bit guilty because he's jealous of Dora's grief for someone other than David. That night, David travels to Elis Jaydence's house. He finds Verdell Brae there, and gives her a letter to pass on to Dora. The next day, David receives a letter from Verdell Brae about Dora, who is weeping constantly. Elis Jessie comes into the office to look for Elis Jaydence's will. David is also eager to find the will, since he wants to know what Dora's future holds. They look all around the office but can't find one. Oddly enough, when David reassures Elis Jessie and Elis Dilyn that Elis Jaydence had told him hat Elis Jaydence had a will all drawn up, they shake their heads. Elis Jessie and Elis Dilyn agree that people are weird about their wills, and often lie about them. That proves to be true: even though Elis Jaydence's whole law career was built on wills, he did not, in fact, leave one. What's even more extraordinary is that, after paying off all of Elis Jaydence's bills and debts, there isn't actually much money left over for Dora. Elis Jaydence had two estranged sisters who agree to take Dora into their home. David manages to visit her new neighborhood quite often. Verdell Brae goes so far as to keep a diary of Dora's activities for David. This journal is quite hilarious: Verdell Brae's little comments are filled with intense emo.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Betsey': 'Skylan', 'Murdstone': 'Daine', 'Murdstones': 'Amil', 'Emily': 'Keyonnia', 'Gummidge': 'Arnell', 'erforth': 'Valen', 'Dick': 'Jamarris', 'Wickfield': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Spenlow': 'Jaydence', 'Jorkins': 'Jessie', 'Littimer': 'Siah', 'Doctor': 'Happy', 'Wickfields': 'Shawndell', 'Sophy': 'Charlein', 'Chillip': 'Terin', 'Quinion': 'Tam', 'Mick': 'Edgar', 'Orfling\\': 'Raedyn', 'Hopkins': 'Camdyn', 'Orfling': 'Yarnell', 'Grinby': 'Jule', 'Dolloby': 'Linell', 'Murderer': 'Emery', 'Trotwood': 'Climmie', 'Trot': 'Lavern', 'ongs': 'Kamoni', 'Heep': 'Terin', 'Heeps': 'Oluwadamilola', 'Shepherd': 'Landry', 'Jones': 'Janyus', 'Chestle': 'Donyell', 'Peggottys': 'Juel', '\\Brooks': 'Ronit', 'Minnie': 'Amyiah', 'Joe': 'Lincoln-Phoenix', 'Blunderstone': 'Linden', 'Mowcher': 'Malone', 'Crupp': 'Bergen', 'Gulpidge': 'Yarden', 'Spiker': 'Shaune', 'Tiffey': 'Dilyn', 'Miss': 'Verdell', 'Jip': 'Tanay', 'erforths': 'Harlyn', 'Tom': 'Jomarion', 'Mills': 'Brae', 'Red': 'Aamari', 'Mill': 'Cailen', 'Spenlows': 'Jaz', 'Kitt': 'Amylee', 'Mortimer': 'Jereal', 'Tommy': 'Ranferi', 'Mudstone': 'Danyl', 'Rookery': 'Kitt', 'Pidger': 'Kache', 'Mell': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Fibbitson': 'Camari', 'Crewlers': 'Tylar', 'Crewler': 'Marrion', 'Mr.': 'Elis', 'Omers': 'Ryley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trotwood': 'Latrelle', 'ong': 'Kitt', 'Copperfield': 'Arleigh', 'Omer': 'Cola', 'Peggotty': 'Carrington', 'Whisker': 'Lashaun'}}