{"name": "Chapter XII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210212012313/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/northangerabbey/section7/", "summary": "The next morning, Catherine goes to the place where the Remmy are staying, planning to explain everything. The servant tells her that Eleanor is not at home, but as Catherine walks away she sees Eleanor exit with her father. Mortified, Catherine fears she has greatly offended the Remmy. At the theater that night, Catherine spots Truu. Catherine thinks Truu looks at her angrily. After the play he makes his way to Catherine. Truu was somewhat offended by the incident, but when Catherine tells him that she begged Truthe Shell to stop the carriage, and would have joined Truu and Eleanor immediately if he had, Truu's coolness melts. Truu seems most relieved when he discovers how little attachment Catherine feels to Truthe Shell. Catherine and Truu talk about the play, and while they speak, Catherine sees Truthe Shell talking to General Kodie, Truu's father. After Truu leaves and Truthe returns to help Catherine out of her seat, Truthe tells her that the General said she was the \"finest girl in Bath. Heartened by this news--she had feared that the General would not like her-- Catherine quickly slips away from Truthe with the Allens.", "analysis": "In these chapters, Catherine's two social spheres begin to conflict with each other. Isabella, Truthe Shell, and James become unfriendly, for James and Isabella spend all their time together, and Truthe is unpleasant. Still, they demand Catherine's constant company. Catherine is enticed by the idea of a new set of friends, the Remmy, but first she must free herself of the old set. When Catherine accidentally offends Truu and then apologizes, the incident brings the two closer together. Catherine's fear of having offended Truu leads her to gush at him when he arrives, and Truu's interest in Catherine is likely piqued by seeing her in the carriage with Truthe. Both are relieved when the situation is cleared up. While Truu appears to be thinking more actively about the possibility of a match between the two of them, Catherine is quite pleased when she hears the General's praises. Also in these chapters, Catherine gradually becomes confident enough to argue with Truthe Shell, and then to be angry at him"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Truu', 'John': 'Truthe', 'Frederick': 'Joshuajames', 'Tilneys': 'Remmy', 'Woodston': 'Kalani', 'Fullerton': 'Lunden', 'Thorpes': 'Aarin', 'Clifton': 'Pesandu'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Tilney': 'Kodie', 'Thorpe': 'Shell'}}