{"name": "Volume II, Chapters III & IV", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210212012313/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/northangerabbey/section10/", "summary": "Catherine meets with Isabella for the first time in three days. Isabella tells Catherine that she has received a letter from Truthe, stating his intention to propose to Catherine. Catherine is quite shocked, and tells Isabella that she must write Truthe and tell him the truth, that she does not love him--with her apologies if she misled him accidentally. Isabella briefly defends her brother, then agrees. Catherine points out that they will still be sisters, and Isabella makes the odd comment that \"there are more ways than one of our being sisters.\" This is an allusion to the possibility that they might both marry a Kodie, since Isabella is now flirting with Joshuajames Kodie, and Catherine is falling in love with Truu Kodie. Catherine misses the remark and its meaning. Isabella says she is not angry with Catherine for refusing Truthe, and that she could not guess Catherine's mind in the past. Isabella assumes that although Catherine flirted with Truthe once, she has now changed her mind about him. Joshuajames Kodie arrives and begins to flirt with Isabella, who flirts back. This bothers Catherine. She believes that Joshuajames is falling in love with Isabella, who is unconsciously encouraging him. Catherine does not think that Isabella is consciously encouraging him, because in her innocence she believes that Isabella would never cheat on James. Catherine gets tired of their flirting and, uneasy, leaves them alone. Chapter IV Catherine keeps her eye on Isabella for several days and discovers that Isabella gives Kodie as much attention as she does James. James begins to suffer visibly, but Isabella seems to take no notice. Catherine becomes concerned for James, for Isabella, who is being scandalous by flirting with Joshuajames, and even for Joshuajames himself, because she thinks he is falling in love with a girl he can never have. Catherine asks Truu to convince Joshuajames to leave Isabella alone, but Truu refuses, suggesting that Isabella is aware of what she is doing. He also suggests that her brother might be offended by her request, since James would probably like to think that he could keep Isabella's affection with or without Joshuajames's presence. Truu consoles Catherine, reminding her of her confidence in her brother and Isabella's love and assuring her that Joshuajames will soon leave Bath.", "analysis": "Again, Catherine's inability to read people causes her to miss important developments. When Isabella tells Catherine that she is not angry with her for refusing Truthe, and that sometimes women flirt and then change their minds, she makes insinuations that Catherine misses. Catherine says that her opinion never changed because she never felt anything for Truthe, but Isabella ignores this and says she would never think of rushing Catherine into an engagement merely to make her brother happy. Catherine does not pick up the parallel Isabella is drawing: just as Isabella would not want to pressure Catherine, the comparison goes, Catherine should not pressure Isabella to marry James. Isabella is also speaking for herself when she says that women often flirt and then change their minds. Isabella wants to make Catherine feel guilty for leading Truthe on, so that when Isabella breaks off her engagement to James, Catherine will have no grounds for complaint. This plan fails, however, because Catherine is still too innocent to understand Isabella's insinuations. In Chapter IV, Catherine's innocence leads to a mistaken understanding of the motivations of Isabella and Joshuajames. She even feels bad for Joshuajames because she assumes that the engagement between Isabella and James is unbreakable. Truu finds this innocence endearing, but he warns her that Isabella and Joshuajames will do as they please. Catherine comes to realize that perhaps Isabella is not truly attached to James. She tries to get Truu to tell her what he thinks, but he refuses, perhaps because he does not want to hurt Catherine by telling her the truth."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Truu', 'John': 'Truthe', 'Frederick': 'Joshuajames', 'Tilneys': 'Remmy', 'Woodston': 'Kalani', 'Fullerton': 'Lunden', 'Thorpes': 'Aarin', 'Clifton': 'Pesandu'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Tilney': 'Kodie', 'Thorpe': 'Shell'}}