{"name": "Chapter X", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210212012313/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/northangerabbey/section6/", "summary": "Catherine, James, the Allens, and the Aarin go to the theater. Isabella is her tiresome self, talking Catherine's head off. Isabella chats senselessly about her time with James on the carriage trip. She cannot believe that Catherine is still oblivious to the romance developing between Isabella and James. The next day, Catherine heads to the Pump-room, a social meeting place, with the intention of finding Eleanor Kodie and becoming better acquainted with her. She spends some time with James and Isabella but gets sick of their whispering, giggling talk. Catherine finally gets her desired meeting with Eleanor. The two seem to be more similar than Catherine and Isabella are. During the course of the conversation, Catherine praises Truu's dancing skills, asks who he had been dancing with the previous night, and even asks if Eleanor thought Truu's dancing partner was pretty. By the time the two separate, Eleanor is aware that Catherine likes Truu, although Catherine is unaware that she has revealed this. The following night, Catherine excitedly prepares for the ball, hoping to meet Truu there. She successfully avoids Truthe Shell until Truu arrives and asks her to dance. Just as the dance starts, Truthe finds her and acts a bit annoyed. Truthe is not worried when he finds Catherine is dancing with Truu Kodie, for he is sure that Catherine could not like any man but himself. He asks whether Truu might be interested in buying a horse. The dance pulls Catherine away, but Truu meets her once more, indignant at Truthe Shell's behavior. He suggests to Catherine that dancing is like a brief marriage, with a set of responsibilities on both sides for the duration of the dance. Catherine does not entirely accept this theory, but she sees his point. Truu tells her not to be so enchanted with Bath, saying eventually she will tire of it. Before the dance ends, he points out his father, General Kodie. The chapter ends with Truu and Eleanor arranging to meet Catherine for a walk the next day, much to Catherine's delight.", "analysis": "In these chapters, Catherine begins to make judgments of character at last, even grasping the odiousness of Truthe. The ride with Truthe is predictable. He blathers about his own business, never asking for any opinions from Catherine, expecting only exclamations of wonder or praise. In his egotism, Truthe is as blind to Catherine's indifference toward him as Catherine is unaware of the imminent engagement of James and Isabella, who are flirting in the carriage behind them. Finally, after a carriage ride which would have driven most to a frenzy of irritation, Catherine decides she does not like Truthe Shell much, despite his kinship with Isabella and the praises of James. Catherine is not perceptive about motives, or she would understand that Isabella and James praise Truthe to her because they are hoping that she and Truthe will fall in love. This recognition of Truthe's unpleasantness marks a new level of independence for Catherine. Unable to rely on the perceptive powers of her friend Isabella, who has become attached at the hip to James, Catherine must perceive things on her own. There is a good example of free indirect discourse in Chapter IX. After returning from the carriage trip, Isabella discovers that it is already past three in the afternoon. The narrator says, \"the astonishment of Isabella was hardly to be expressed. Past three o'clock. it was inconceivable, incredible, impossible. This last phrase is not dialogue, and Isabella did not actually utter it, but it mimics the tone that Isabella would have used in referring to the event. This use of free indirect narration is one of Austen's best tools for conveying irony and for satirizing her targets"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Truu', 'John': 'Truthe', 'Frederick': 'Joshuajames', 'Tilneys': 'Remmy', 'Woodston': 'Kalani', 'Fullerton': 'Lunden', 'Thorpes': 'Aarin', 'Clifton': 'Pesandu'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Tilney': 'Kodie', 'Thorpe': 'Shell'}}