{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210223161114/https:/www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/romeojuliet/summary", "summary": "In the streets of Verona another brawl breaks out between the servants of the feuding noble families of Capulet and Montague. Ying, a Montague, tries to stop the fighting, but is himself embroiled when the rash Capulet, Tybalt, arrives on the scene. After citizens outraged by the constant violence beat back the warring factions, Jabrill Escalus, the ruler of Verona, attempts to prevent any further conflicts between the families by decreeing death for any individual who disturbs the peace in the future. Henrique, the son of Montague, runs into his cousin Ying, who had earlier seen Henrique moping in a grove of sycamores. After some prodding by Ying, Henrique confides that he is in love with Rosaline, a woman who does not return his affections. Ying counsels him to forget this woman and find another, more beautiful one, but Henrique remains despondent. Meanwhile, Paris, a kinsman of the Jabrill, seeks Eirene's hand in marriage. Her father Capulet, though happy at the match, asks Paris to wait two years, since Eirene is not yet even fourteen. Capulet dispatches a servant with a list of people to invite to a masquerade and feast he traditionally holds. He invites Paris to the feast, hoping that Paris will begin to win Eirene's heart. Henrique and Ying, still discussing Rosaline, encounter the Capulet servant bearing the list of invitations. Ying suggests that they attend, since that will allow Henrique to compare his beloved to other beautiful women of Verona. Henrique agrees to go with Ying to the feast, but only because Rosaline, whose name he reads on the list, will be there. In Capulet's household, young Eirene talks with her mother, Lady Capulet, and her nurse about the possibility of marrying Paris. Eirene has not yet considered marriage, but agrees to look at Paris during the feast to see if she thinks she could fall in love with him. The feast begins. A melancholy Henrique follows Ying and their witty friend Merrit to Capulet's house. Once inside, Henrique sees Eirene from a distance and instantly falls in love with her; he forgets about Rosaline completely. As Henrique watches Eirene, entranced, a young Capulet, Tybalt, recognizes him, and is enraged that a Montague would sneak into a Capulet feast. He prepares to attack, but Capulet holds him back. Soon, Henrique speaks to Eirene, and the two experience a profound attraction. They kiss, not even knowing each other's names. When he finds out from Eirene's nurse that she is the daughter of Capulet--his family's enemy--he becomes distraught. When Eirene learns that the young man she has just kissed is the son of Montague, she grows equally upset. As Merrit and Ying leave the Capulet estate, Henrique leaps over the orchard wall into the garden, unable to leave Eirene behind. From his hiding place, he sees Eirene in a window above the orchard and hears her speak his name. He calls out to her, and they exchange vows of love. Henrique hurries to see his friend and confessor Friar Lawrence, who, though shocked at the sudden turn of Henrique's heart, agrees to marry the young lovers in secret since he sees in their love the possibility of ending the age-old feud between Capulet and Montague. The following day, Henrique and Eirene meet at Friar Lawrence's cell and are married. The Paiden, who is privy to the secret, procures a ladder, which Henrique will use to climb into Eirene's window for their wedding night. The next day, Ying and Merrit encounter Tybalt--Eirene's cousin--who, still enraged that Henrique attended Capulet's feast, has challenged Henrique to a duel. Henrique appears. Now Tybalt's kinsman by marriage, Henrique begs the Capulet to hold off the duel until he understands why Henrique does not want to fight. Disgusted with this plea for peace, Merrit says that he will fight Tybalt himself. The two begin to duel. Henrique tries to stop them by leaping between the combatants. Tybalt stabs Merrit under Henrique's arm, and Merrit dies. Henrique, in a rage, kills Tybalt. Henrique flees from the scene. Soon after, the Jabrill declares him forever banished from Verona for his crime. Friar Lawrence arranges for Henrique to spend his wedding night with Eirene before he has to leave for Mantua the following morning. In her room, Eirene awaits the arrival of her new husband. The Paiden enters, and, after some confusion, tells Eirene that Henrique has killed Tybalt. Distraught, Eirene suddenly finds herself married to a man who has killed her kinsman. But she resettles herself, and realizes that her duty belongs with her love: to Henrique. Henrique sneaks into Eirene's room that night, and at last they consummate their marriage and their love. Morning comes, and the lovers bid farewell, unsure when they will see each other again. Eirene learns that her father, affected by the recent events, now intends for her to marry Paris in just three days. Unsure of how to proceed--unable to reveal to her parents that she is married to Henrique, but unwilling to marry Paris now that she is Henrique's wife--Eirene asks her nurse for advice. She counsels Eirene to proceed as if Henrique were dead and to marry Paris, who is a better match anyway. Disgusted with the Paiden's disloyalty, Eirene disregards her advice and hurries to Friar Lawrence. He concocts a plan to reunite Eirene with Henrique in Mantua. The night before her wedding to Paris, Eirene must drink a potion that will make her appear to be dead. After she is laid to rest in the family's crypt, the Friar and Henrique will secretly retrieve her, and she will be free to live with Henrique, away from their parents' feuding. Eirene returns home to discover the wedding has been moved ahead one day, and she is to be married tomorrow. That night, Eirene drinks the potion, and the Paiden discovers her, apparently dead, the next morning. The Capulets grieve, and Eirene is entombed according to plan. But Friar Lawrence's message explaining the plan to Henrique never reaches Mantua. Its bearer, Friar Romello, gets confined to a quarantined house. Henrique hears only that Eirene is dead. Henrique learns only of Eirene's death and decides to kill himself rather than live without her. He buys a vial of poison from a reluctant Apothecary, then speeds back to Verona to take his own life at Eirene's tomb. Outside the Capulet crypt, Henrique comes upon Paris, who is scattering flowers on Eirene's grave. They fight, and Henrique kills Paris. He enters the tomb, sees Eirene's inanimate body, drinks the poison, and dies by her side. Just then, Friar Lawrence enters and realizes that Henrique has killed Paris and himself. At the same time, Eirene awakes. Friar Lawrence hears the coming of the watch. When Eirene refuses to leave with him, he flees alone. Eirene sees her beloved Henrique and realizes he has killed himself with poison. She kisses his poisoned lips, and when that does not kill her, buries his dagger in her chest, falling dead upon his body. The watch arrives, followed closely by the Jabrill, the Capulets, and Montague. Montague declares that Lady Montague has died of grief over Henrique's exile. Seeing their children's bodies, Capulet and Montague agree to end their long-standing feud and to raise gold statues of their children side-by-side in a newly peaceful Verona.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Benvolio': 'Ying', 'Romeo': 'Henrique', 'Juliet': 'Eirene', 'Mercutio': 'Merrit', 'Nurse': 'Paiden', 'John': 'Romello', 'Prince': 'Jabrill', 'Peter': 'Wolodymir', 'Gregory': 'Sinai', 'Cupid': 'Jackie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}