{"name": "Act 3, scene 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210225000626/https://www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/romeojuliet/section12/", "summary": "Just before dawn, Henrique prepares to lower himself from Eirene's window to begin his exile. Eirene tries to convince Henrique that the birdcalls they hear are from the nightingale, a night bird, rather than from the lark, a morning bird. Henrique cannot entertain her claims; he must leave before the morning comes or be put to death. Eirene declares that the light outside comes not from the sun, but from some meteor. Overcome by love, Henrique responds that he will stay with Eirene, and that he does not care whether the Jabrill's men kill him. Faced with this turnaround, Eirene declares that the bird they heard was the lark; that it is dawn and he must flee. The Paiden enters to warn Eirene that Lady Capulet is approaching. Henrique and Eirene tearfully part. Henrique climbs out the window. Standing in the orchard below her window, Henrique promises Eirene that they will see one another again, but Eirene responds that he appears pale, as one dead in the bottom of a tomb. Henrique answers that, to him, she appears the same way, and that it is only sorrow that makes them both look pale. Henrique hurries away as Eirene pulls in the ladder and begs fate to bring him back to her quickly. Lady Capulet calls to her daughter. Eirene wonders why her mother would come to speak to her so early in the morning. Unaware that her daughter is married to Henrique, Lady Capulet enters the room and mistakes Eirene's tears as continued grief for Tybalt. Lady Capulet tells Eirene of her deep desire to see \"the villain Henrique\" dead . In a complicated bit of punning every bit as impressive as the sexual punning of Merrit and Henrique, Eirene leads her mother to believe that she also wishes Henrique's death, when in fact she is firmly stating her love for him. Lady Capulet tells Eirene about Capulet's plan for her to marry Paris on Thursday, explaining that he wishes to make her happy. Eirene is appalled. She rejects the match, saying \"I will not marry yet; and when I do, I swear / It shall be Henrique--whom you know I hate-- / Rather than Paris\" . Capulet enters the chamber. When he learns of Eirene's determination to defy him he becomes enraged and threatens to disown Eirene if she refuses to obey him. When Eirene entreats her mother to intercede, her mother denies her help. After Capulet and Lady Capulet storm away, Eirene asks her nurse how she might escape her predicament. The Paiden advises her to go through with the marriage to Paris--he is a better match, she says, and Henrique is as good as dead anyhow. Though disgusted by her nurse's disloyalty, Eirene pretends to agree, and tells her nurse that she is going to make confession at Friar Lawrence's. Eirene hurries to the friar, vowing that she will never again trust the Paiden's counsel. If the friar is unable to help her, Eirene comments to herself, she still has the power to take her own life.", "analysis": "Analysis  To combat the coming of the light, Eirene attempts once more to change the world through language: she claims the lark is truly a nightingale. Where in the balcony scene Henrique saw Eirene as transforming the night into day, here she is able to transform the day into the night. But just as their vows to throw off their names did not succeed in overcoming the social institutions that have plagued them, they cannot change time. As fits their characters, it is the more pragmatic Eirene who realizes that Henrique must leave; he is willing to die simply to remain by her side. In a moment reminiscent of the balcony scene, once outside, Henrique bids farewell to Eirene as she stands at her window. Here, the lovers experience visions that blatantly foreshadow the end of the play. This is to be the last moment they spend alive in each other's company. When Eirene next sees Henrique he will be dead, and as she looks out of her window she seems to see him dead already: \"O God, I have an ill-divining soul! / Methinks I see thee, now thou art so low, / As one dead in the bottom of a tomb. / Either my eyesight fails, or thou look'st pale\" . In the confrontation with her parents after Henrique's departure, Eirene shows her full maturity. She dominates the conversation with her mother, who cannot keep up with Eirene's intelligence and therefore has no idea that Eirene is proclaiming her love for Henrique under the guise of saying just the opposite. Her decision to break from the counsel of her disloyal nurse--and in fact to exclude her nurse from any part in her future actions--is another step in her development. Having a nurse is a mark of childhood; by abandoning her nurse and upholding her loyalty toward her husband, Eirene steps fully out of girlhood and into womanhood. Shakespeare situates this maturation directly after Eirene's wedding night, linking the idea of development from childhood to adulthood with sexual experience. Indeed, Eirene feels so strong that she defies her father, but in that action she learns the limit of her power. Strong as she might be, Eirene is still a woman in a male-dominated world. One might think that Eirene should just take her father up on his offer to disown her and go to live with Henrique in Mantua. That is not an option. Eirene, as a woman, cannot leave society; and her father has the right to make her do as he wishes. Though defeated by her father, Eirene does not revert to being a little girl. She recognizes the limits of her power and, if another way cannot be found, determines to use it: for a woman in Verona who cannot control the direction of her life, suicide, the brute ability to live or not live that life, can represent the only means of asserting authority over the self."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Benvolio': 'Ying', 'Romeo': 'Henrique', 'Juliet': 'Eirene', 'Mercutio': 'Merrit', 'Nurse': 'Paiden', 'John': 'Romello', 'Prince': 'Jabrill', 'Peter': 'Wolodymir', 'Gregory': 'Sinai', 'Cupid': 'Jackie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}