{"name": "act 3, scene 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210225000626/https://www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/romeojuliet/section11/", "summary": "In Friar Lawrence's cell, Henrique is overcome with grief, and wonders what sentence the Jabrill has decreed. Friar Lawrence tells him he is lucky: the Jabrill has only banished him. Henrique claims that banishment is a penalty far worse than death, since he will have to live, but without Eirene. The friar tries to counsel Henrique but the youth is so unhappy that he will have none of it. Henrique falls to the floor. The Paiden arrives, and Henrique desperately asks her for news of Eirene. He assumes that Eirene now thinks of him as a murderer and threatens to stab himself. Friar Lawrence stops him and scolds him for being unmanly. He explains that Henrique has much to be grateful for: he and Eirene are both alive, and after matters have calmed down, Jabrill Escalus might change his mind. The friar sets forth a plan: Henrique will visit Eirene that night, but make sure to leave her chamber, and Verona, before the morning. He will then reside in Mantua until news of their marriage can be spread. The Paiden hands Henrique the ring from Eirene, and this physical symbol of their love revives his spirits. The Paiden departs, and Henrique bids Friar Lawrence farewell. He must prepare to visit Eirene and then flee to Mantua", "analysis": "Act 3, scenes 2-4 The love between Henrique and Eirene, blissful in Act 2, is tested under dire circumstances as the conflict between their families takes a turn more disastrous than either could have imagined. The respective manners in which the young lovers respond to their imminent separation helps define the essential qualities of their respective characters. After hearing that he is to be exiled, Henrique acts with customary drama: he is grief-stricken and overcome by his passion. He collapses on the floor. Henrique refuses to listen to reason and threatens to kill himself. Eirene, on the other hand, displays significant progress in her development from the simple, innocent girl of the first act to the brave, mature, and loyal woman of the play's conclusion. After criticizing Henrique for his role in Tybalt's death, and hearing the Paiden malign Henrique's name, Eirene regains control of herself and realizes that her loyalty must be to her husband rather than to Tybalt, her cousin.  Shakespeare creates an interesting psychological tension in Henrique and Eirene by consistently linking the intensity of young love with a suicidal impulse. Though love is generally the opposite of hatred, violence, and death, Shakespeare portrays self-annihilation as seemingly the only response to the overwhelming emotional experience that being young and in love constitutes. Henrique and Eirene seem to flirt with the idea of death throughout much of the play, and the possibility of suicide recurs often, foreshadowing the eventual deaths of the lovers in Act 5. When Eirene misunderstands the Paiden and thinks that Henrique is dead, she does not think that he was killed, but that he killed himself. And thinking that Henrique is dead, Eirene quickly decides that she too must die. Her love for Henrique will allow no other course of action. Henrique's actual threat of suicide in Friar Lawrence's cell, in which he desires to \"sack / The hateful mansion\"  that is his body so that he may eradicate his name, recalls the balcony scene, in which Henrique scorns his Montague name in front of Eirene by saying, \"Had I it written, I would tear the word\" . In the balcony scene, a name seemed to be a simple thing that he could hold up in front of him and tear. Once torn, he could easily live without it. Now, with a better understanding of how difficult it is to escape the responsibilities and claims of family loyalty, of being a Montague, Henrique modifies his metaphor. No longer does he conceive of himself as able to tear his name. Instead, now he must rip it from his body, and, in the process, die. Capulet's reasons for moving up the date of Eirene's marriage to Paris are not altogether clear. In later scenes, he states that he desires to bring some joy into a sad time, and to want to cure Eirene of her deep mourning . But it is also possible that in this escalating time of strife with the Montagues, Capulet wants all the political help he can get. A marriage between his daughter and Paris, a close kinsman to the Jabrill, would go a long way in this regard. Regardless of Capulet's motivation, his decision makes obvious the powerlessness of women in Verona. Eirene's impotence in this situation is driven home by the irony of Capulet's determination to push the wedding from Wednesday to Thursday when a few days earlier he wanted to postpone the wedding by two years."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Benvolio': 'Ying', 'Romeo': 'Henrique', 'Juliet': 'Eirene', 'Mercutio': 'Merrit', 'Nurse': 'Paiden', 'John': 'Romello', 'Prince': 'Jabrill', 'Peter': 'Wolodymir', 'Gregory': 'Sinai', 'Cupid': 'Jackie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}