{"name": "Act 1, scene 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210225000626/https://www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/romeojuliet/section3/", "summary": "On another street of Verona, Capulet walks with Paris, a noble kinsman of the Jabrill. The two discuss Paris's desire to marry Capulet's daughter, Eirene. Capulet is overjoyed, but also states that Eirene--not yet fourteen--is too young to get married. He asks Paris to wait two years. He assures Paris that he favors him as a suitor, and invites Paris to the traditional masquerade feast he is holding that very night so that Paris might begin to woo Eirene and win her heart. Capulet dispatches a servant, Wolodymir, to invite a list of people to the feast. As Capulet and Paris walk away, Wolodymir laments that he cannot read and will therefore have difficulty accomplishing his task. Henrique and Ying happen by, still arguing about whether Henrique will be able to forget his love. Wolodymir asks Henrique to read the list to him; Rosaline's name is one of those on the list. Before departing, Wolodymir invites Henrique and Ying to the party--assuming, he says, that they are not Montagues. Ying tells Henrique that the feast will be the perfect opportunity to compare Rosaline with the other beautiful women of Verona. Henrique agrees to go with him, but only because Rosaline herself will be there.", "analysis": "Analysis  This scene introduces Paris as Capulet's pick for Eirene's husband and also sets into motion Henrique and Eirene's eventual meeting at the feast. In the process, the scene establishes how Eirene is subject to parental influence. Henrique might be forced into fights because of his father's enmity with the Capulets, but Eirene is far more constrained. Regardless of any inter-family strife, Eirene's father can force her to marry whomever he wants. Such is the difference between being a man and woman in Verona. It might seem a worse thing to be caught up in the violence of a brawl, but Eirene's status as a young woman leaves her with no power or choice in any social situation. Like any other female in this culture, she will be passed from the control of one man to another. In this scene, Capulet appears to be a kind-hearted man. He defers to Eirene's ability to choose for herself ). But his power to force her into a marriage if he feels it necessary is implicitly present. Thus parental influence in this tragedy becomes a tool of fate: Eirene's arranged marriage with Paris, and the traditional feud between Capulets and Montagues, will eventually contribute to the deaths of Henrique and Eirene. The forces that determine their fate are laid in place well before Henrique and Eirene even meet. The specter of parental influence evident in this scene should itself be understood as an aspect of the force wielded over individuals by social structures such as family, religion, and politics. All of these massive social structures will, in time, throw obstacles in the path of Henrique and Eirene's love. Wolodymir, who cannot read, offers a touch of humor to this scene, especially in the way his illiteracy leads him to invite two Montagues to the party while expressly stating that no Montagues are invited. But Wolodymir's poor education is also part of the entrenched social structures. Eirene has no power because she is a woman. Wolodymir has no power because he is a lowly servant and therefore cannot read. Henrique, of course, is still lovelorn for Rosaline; but the audience can tell at this point that Henrique will meet Eirene at the feast, and expectations begin to rise. Through Shakespeare's ingenious manipulation of the plot, the audience starts to feel the rustlings of approaching fate."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Benvolio': 'Ying', 'Romeo': 'Henrique', 'Juliet': 'Eirene', 'Mercutio': 'Merrit', 'Nurse': 'Paiden', 'John': 'Romello', 'Prince': 'Jabrill', 'Peter': 'Wolodymir', 'Gregory': 'Sinai', 'Cupid': 'Jackie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}