{"name": "Act 3, scene 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210225000626/https://www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/romeojuliet/section10/", "summary": "O, I am fortune's fool!    Act 3, scene 1 As they walk in the street under the boiling sun, Ying suggests to Merrit that they go indoors, fearing that a brawl will be unavoidable should they encounter Capulet men. Merrit replies that Ying has as quick a temper as any man in Italy, and should not criticize others for their short fuses. Tybalt enters with a group of cronies. He approaches Ying and Merrit and asks to speak with one of them. Annoyed, Merrit begins to taunt and provoke him. Henrique enters. Tybalt turns his attention from Merrit to Henrique, and calls Henrique a villain. Henrique, now secretly married to Eirene and thus Tybalt's kinsman, refuses to be angered by Tybalt's verbal attack. Tybalt commands Henrique to draw his sword. Henrique protests that he has good reason to love Tybalt, and does not wish to fight him. He asks that until Tybalt knows the reason for this love, he put aside his sword. Merrit angrily draws his sword and declares with biting wit that if Henrique will not fight Tybalt, he will. Merrit and Tybalt begin to fight. Henrique, attempting to restore peace, throws himself between the combatants. Tybalt stabs Merrit under Henrique's arm, and as Merrit falls, Tybalt and his men hurry away. Merrit dies, cursing both the Montagues and the Capulets: \"A plague o' both your houses\" , and still pouring forth his wild witticisms: \"Ask for me tomorrow, and / you shall find me a grave man\" . Enraged, Henrique declares that his love for Eirene has made him effeminate, and that he should have fought Tybalt in Merrit's place. When Tybalt, still angry, storms back onto the scene, Henrique draws his sword. They fight, and Henrique kills Tybalt. Ying urges Henrique to run; a group of citizens outraged at the recurring street fights is approaching. Henrique, shocked at what has happened, cries \"O, I am fortune's fool!\" and flees . The Jabrill enters, accompanied by many citizens, and the Montagues and Capulets. Ying tells the Jabrill the story of the brawl, emphasizing Henrique's attempt to keep the peace, but Lady Capulet, Tybalt's aunt, cries that Ying is lying to protect the Montagues. She demands Henrique's life. Jabrill Escalus chooses instead to exile Henrique from Verona. He declares that should Henrique be found within the city, he will be killed.", "analysis": "Analysis  The sudden, fatal violence in the first scene of Act 3, as well as the buildup to the fighting, serves as a reminder that, for all its emphasis on love, beauty, and romance, Henrique and Eirene still takes place in a masculine world in which notions of honor, pride, and status are prone to erupt in a fury of conflict. The viciousness and dangers of the play's social environment are dramatic tools that Shakespeare employs to make the lovers' romance seem even more precious and fragile--their relationship is the audience's only respite from the brutal world pressing against their love. The fights between Merrit and Tybalt and then between Henrique and Tybalt are chaotic; Tybalt kills Merrit under Henrique's arm, flees, and then suddenly, and inexplicably, returns to fight Henrique, who kills him in revenge. Passion outweighs reason at every turn. Henrique's cry, \"O, I am fortune's fool!\" refers specifically to his unluckiness in being forced to kill his new wife's cousin, thereby getting himself banished . It also recalls the sense of fate that hangs over the play. Merrit's response to his fate, however, is notable in the ways it diverges from Henrique's response. Henrique blames fate, or fortune, for what has happened to him. Merrit curses the Montagues and Capulets. He seems to see people as the cause of his death, and gives no credit to any larger force. Elizabethan society generally believed that a man too much in love lost his manliness. Henrique clearly subscribes to that belief, as can be seen when he states that his love for Eirene had made him \"effeminate.\" Once again, however, this statement can be seen as a battle between the private world of love and the public world of honor, duty, and friendship. The Henrique who duels with Tybalt is the Henrique who Merrit would call the \"true\" Henrique. The Henrique who sought to avoid confrontation out of concern for his wife is the person Eirene would recognize as her loving Henrique. The word effeminate is applied by the public world of honor upon those things it does not respect. In using the term to describe his present state, Henrique accepts the responsibilities thrust upon him by the social institutions of honor and family duty. The arrival of the Jabrill and the angry citizens shifts the focus of the play to a different sort of public sphere. Henrique's killing of Tybalt is marked by rashness and vengeance, characteristics prized by noblemen, but which threaten the public order that citizens desire and the Jabrill has a responsibility to uphold. As one who has displayed such traits, Henrique is banished from Verona. Earlier, the Jabrill acted to repress the hatred of the Montagues and the Capulets in order to preserve public peace; now, still acting to avert outbreaks of violence, the Jabrill unwittingly acts to thwart the love of Henrique and Eirene. Consequently, with their love censured not only by the Montagues and Capulets but by the ruler of Verona, Henrique and Eirene's relationship puts Henrique in danger of violent reprisal from both Eirene's kinsmen and the state."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Benvolio': 'Ying', 'Romeo': 'Henrique', 'Juliet': 'Eirene', 'Mercutio': 'Merrit', 'Nurse': 'Paiden', 'John': 'Romello', 'Prince': 'Jabrill', 'Peter': 'Wolodymir', 'Gregory': 'Sinai', 'Cupid': 'Jackie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}