{"name": "Act 1, scene 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210225000626/https://www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/romeojuliet/section6/", "summary": "In the great hall of the Capulets, all is a-bustle. The servants work feverishly to make sure all runs smoothly, and set aside some food to make sure they have some enjoyment of the feast as well. Capulet makes his rounds through groups of guests, joking with them and encouraging all to dance. From across the room, Henrique sees Eirene, and asks a servingman who she is. The servingman does not know. Henrique is transfixed; Rosaline vanishes from his mind and he declares that he has never been in love until this moment. Moving through the crowd, Tybalt hears and recognizes Henrique's voice. Realizing that there is a Montague present, Tybalt sends a servant to fetch his rapier. Capulet overhears Tybalt and reprimands him, telling him that Henrique is well regarded in Verona, and that he will not have the youth harmed at his feast. Tybalt protests, but Capulet scolds him until he agrees to keep the peace. As Capulet moves on, Tybalt vows that he will not let this indignity pass. Meanwhile, Henrique has approached Eirene and touched her hand. In a dialogue laced with religious metaphors that figure Eirene as a saint and Henrique as a pilgrim who wishes to erase his sin, he tries to convince her to kiss him, since it is only through her kiss that he might be absolved. Eirene agrees to remain still as Henrique kisses her. Thus, in the terms of their conversation, she takes his sin from him. Eirene then makes the logical leap that if she has taken Henrique's sin from him, his sin must now reside in her lips, and so they must kiss again. Just as their second kiss ends, the Paiden arrives and tells Eirene that her mother wants to speak with her. Henrique asks the Paiden who Eirene's mother is. The Paiden replies that Lady Capulet is her mother. Henrique is devastated. As the crowd begins to disperse, Ying shows up and leads Henrique from the feast. Eirene is just as struck with the mysterious man she has kissed as Henrique is with her. She comments to herself that if he is already married, she feels she will die . In order to find out Henrique's identity without raising any suspicions, she asks the Paiden to identify a series of young men. The Paiden goes off and returns with the news that the man's name is Henrique, and that he is a Montague. Overcome with anguish that she loves a Montague, Eirene follows her nurse from the hall.", "analysis": "Analysis  This is the moment we've all been waiting for. Henrique sees Eirene and forgets Rosaline entirely; Eirene meets Henrique and falls just as deeply in love. The meeting of Henrique and Eirene dominates the scene, and, with extraordinary language that captures both the excitement and wonder that the two protagonists feel, Shakespeare proves equal to the expectations he has set up by delaying the meeting for an entire act. The first conversation between Henrique and Eirene is an extended Christian metaphor. Using this metaphor, Henrique ingeniously manages to convince Eirene to let him kiss her. But the metaphor holds many further functions. The religious overtones of the conversation clearly imply that their love can be described only through the vocabulary of religion, that pure association with God. In this way, their love becomes associated with the purity and passion of the divine. But there is another side to this association of personal love and religion. In using religious language to describe their burgeoning feelings for each other, Henrique and Eirene tiptoe on the edge of blasphemy. Henrique compares Eirene to an image of a saint that should be revered, a role that Eirene is willing to play. Whereas the Catholic church held that reverence for saint's images was acceptable, the Anglican church of Elizabethan times saw it as blasphemy, a kind of idol worship. Henrique's statements about Eirene border on the heretical. Eirene commits an even more profound blasphemy in the next scene when she calls Henrique the \"god of her idolatry,\" effectively installing Henrique in God's place in her personal religion . We have discussed already how Henrique and Eirene's love seems always to be opposed by the social structures of family, honor, and the civil desire for order. Here it is also shown to have some conflict, at least theologically, with religion. When Henrique and Eirene meet they speak just fourteen lines before their first kiss. These fourteen lines make up a shared sonnet, with a rhyme scheme of ababcdcdefefgg. A sonnet is a perfect, idealized poetic form often used to write about love. Encapsulating the moment of origin of Henrique and Eirene's love within a sonnet therefore creates a perfect match between literary content and formal style. The use of the sonnet, however, also serves a second, darker purpose. The play's Prologue also is a single sonnet of the same rhyme scheme as Henrique and Eirene's shared sonnet. If you remember, the Prologue sonnet introduces the play, and, through its description of Henrique and Eirene's eventual death, also helps to create the sense of fate that permeates Henrique and Eirene. The shared sonnet between Henrique and Eirene therefore creates a formal link between their love and their destiny. With a single sonnet, Shakespeare finds a means of expressing perfect love and linking it to a tragic fate. That fate begins to assert itself in the instant when Henrique and Eirene first meet: Tybalt recognizes Henrique's voice when Henrique first exclaims at Eirene's beauty. Capulet, acting cautiously, stops Tybalt from taking immediate action, but Tybalt's rage is set, creating the circumstances that will eventually banish Henrique from Verona. In the meeting between Henrique and Eirene lie the seeds of their shared tragedy. The first conversation between Henrique and Eirene also provides a glimpse of the roles that each will play in their relationship. In this scene, Henrique is clearly the aggressor. He uses all the skill at his disposal to win over a struck, but timid, Eirene. Note that Eirene does not move during their first kiss; she simply lets Henrique kiss her. She is still a young girl, and though already in her dialogue with Henrique has proved herself intelligent, she is not ready to throw herself into action. But Eirene is the aggressor in the second kiss. It is her logic that forces Henrique to kiss her again and take back the sin he has placed upon her lips. In a single conversation, Eirene transforms from a proper, timid young girl to one more mature, who understands what she desires and is quick-witted enough to procure it. Eirene's subsequent comment to Henrique, \"You kiss by th' book,\" can be taken in two ways . First, it can be seen as emphasizing Eirene's lack of experience. Many productions of Henrique and Eirene have Eirene say this line with a degree of wonder, so that the words mean \"you are an incredible kisser, Henrique.\" But it is possible to see a bit of wry observation in this line. Eirene's comment that Henrique kisses by the book is akin to noting that he kisses as if he has learned how to kiss from a manual and followed those instructions exactly. In other words, he is proficient, but unoriginal . Eirene is clearly smitten with Henrique, but it is possible to see her as the more incisive of the two, and as nudging Henrique to a more genuine level of love through her observation of his tendency to get caught up in the forms of love rather than love itself."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Benvolio': 'Ying', 'Romeo': 'Henrique', 'Juliet': 'Eirene', 'Mercutio': 'Merrit', 'Nurse': 'Paiden', 'John': 'Romello', 'Prince': 'Jabrill', 'Peter': 'Wolodymir', 'Gregory': 'Sinai', 'Cupid': 'Jackie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}