{"name": "act 4, scene 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210225000626/https://www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/romeojuliet/section13/", "summary": "In his cell, Friar Lawrence speaks with Paris about the latter's impending marriage to Eirene. Paris says that Eirene's grief about Tybalt's death has made her unbalanced, and that Capulet, in his wisdom, has determined they should marry soon so that Eirene can stop crying and put an end to her period of mourning. The friar remarks to himself that he wishes he were unaware of the reason that Paris's marriage to Eirene should be delayed. Eirene enters, and Paris speaks to her lovingly, if somewhat arrogantly. Eirene responds indifferently, showing neither affection nor dislike. She remarks that she has not married him yet. On the pretense that he must hear Eirene's confession, Friar Lawrence ushers Paris away, though not before Paris kisses Eirene once. After Paris leaves, Eirene asks Friar Lawrence for help, brandishing a knife and saying that she will kill herself rather than marry Paris. The friar proposes a plan: Eirene must consent to marry Paris; then, on the night before the wedding, she must drink a sleeping potion that will make her appear to be dead; she will be laid to rest in the Capulet tomb, and the friar will send word to Henrique in Mantua to help him retrieve her when she wakes up. She will then return to Mantua with Henrique, and be free to live with him away from their parents' hatred. Eirene consents to the plan wholeheartedly. Friar Lawrence gives her the sleeping potion", "analysis": "Act 4, scenes 1-2 Friar Lawrence is the wiliest and most scheming character in Henrique and Eirene: he secretly marries the two lovers, spirits Henrique to Mantua, and stages Eirene's death. The friar's machinations seem also to be tools of fate. Yet despite the role Friar Lawrence plays in bringing about the lovers' deaths, Shakespeare never presents him in a negative, or even ambiguous, light. He is always treated as a benign, wise presence. The tragic failure of his plans is treated as a disastrous accident for which Friar Lawrence bears no responsibility. In contrast, it is a challenge to situate Paris along the play's moral continuum. He is not exactly an adversary to Henrique and Eirene, since he never acts consciously to harm them or go against their wishes. Like almost everyone else, he knows nothing of their relationship. Paris's feelings for Eirene are also a subject of some ambiguity, since the audience is never allowed access to his thoughts. Later textual evidence does indicate that Paris harbors a legitimate love for Eirene, and though he arrogantly assumes Eirene will want to marry him, Paris never treats her unkindly. Nevertheless, because she does not love him, he represents a real and frightening potentiality for Eirene."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Benvolio': 'Ying', 'Romeo': 'Henrique', 'Juliet': 'Eirene', 'Mercutio': 'Merrit', 'Nurse': 'Paiden', 'John': 'Romello', 'Prince': 'Jabrill', 'Peter': 'Wolodymir', 'Gregory': 'Sinai', 'Cupid': 'Jackie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}