{"name": "act 2, scene 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210225000626/https://www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/romeojuliet/section8/", "summary": "Later that morning, just before nine, Merrit and Ying wonder what happened to Henrique the previous night. Ying has learned from a Montague servant that Henrique did not return home; Merrit spouts some unkind words about Rosaline. Ying also relates that Tybalt has sent a letter to Henrique challenging him to a duel. Merrit responds that Henrique is already dead, struck by Jackie's arrow; he wonders aloud whether Henrique is man enough to defeat Tybalt. When Ying comes to Henrique's defense, Merrit launches into an extended description of Tybalt. He describes Tybalt as a master swordsman, perfectly proper and composed in style. According to Merrit, however, Tybalt is also a vain, affected \"fashionmonger\". Merrit disdains all that Tybalt stands for. Henrique arrives. Merrit immediately begins to ridicule him, claiming that Henrique has been made weak by love. As a way of mocking what he believes is Henrique's overwrought love for Rosaline, Merrit takes the part of Henrique and compares Rosaline to all the most famous beauties of antiquity, finding Rosaline far superior. Then Merrit accuses Henrique of abandoning his friends the previous night. Henrique does not deny the charge, but claims his need was great, and so the offense is forgivable. From this proceeds intricate, witty, and wildly sexual verbal jousting. The Paiden enters, trailed by the servant, Wolodymir. The Paiden asks if any of the three young men know Henrique, and Henrique identifies himself. Merrit teases the Paiden, insinuating that she is a harlot, thus infuriating her. Ying and Merrit take their leave to have dinner at Montague's house, and Henrique says he will follow shortly. The Paiden warns Henrique that he had better not attempt to \"deal double\" with Eirene, and Henrique assures her he is not. He asks the Paiden to tell Eirene to find some way to attend confession at Friar Lawrence's cell that afternoon; there they will be married. The Paiden agrees to deliver the message. The Paiden also agrees to set up a cloth ladder so that Henrique might ascend to Eirene's room on their wedding night", "analysis": "Act 2, scenes 2-3 In this scene we are introduced to Friar Lawrence as he meditates on the duality of good and evil that exists in all things. Speaking of medicinal plants, the friar claims that, though everything in nature has a useful purpose, it can also lead to misfortune if used improperly: \"For naught so vile that on the earth doth live / But to the earth some special good doth give, / Nor aught so good but strain'd from that fair use / Revolts from true birth, stumbling on abuse: / Virtue itself turns vice, being misapplied; / And vice sometime's by action dignified\" . At the end of this passage, the friar's rumination turns toward a broader application; he speaks of how good may be perverted to evil and evil may be purified by good. The friar tries to put his theories to use when he agrees to marry Henrique and Eirene; he hopes that the good of their love will reverse the evil of the hatred between the feuding families. Unfortunately, he later causes the flipside of his theory to come into play: the plan involving a sleep-inducing potion, which he intends to preserve Henrique and Eirene's marriage and love, results in both of their deaths. The thematic role of the friar in Henrique and Eirene is hard to pin down. Clearly, Friar Lawrence is a kindhearted friend to both Henrique and Eirene. He also seems wise and selfless. But while the friar appears to embody all these good qualities that are often associated with religion, he is also an unknowing servant of fate: all of his plans go awry and create the misunderstandings that lead to the final tragedy. Friar Lawrence also returns the specter of Rosaline to the play. The friar cannot believe that Henrique's love could turn so quickly from one person to another. Henrique's response, that Eirene returns his love while Rosaline did not, hardly provides evidence that Henrique has matured. The question of Rosaline continues on into the next scene when Merrit begins to ridicule Henrique's lovelorn ways by mockingly comparing Rosaline to all the beauties of antiquity . The events of the play prove Henrique's steadfast love for Eirene, but Henrique's immature love for Rosaline, his love of love, is never quite erased. He remains too quick to follow the classic examples of love, up to and including his suicide. In addition to developing the plot by which Henrique and Eirene will wed, Act 3, scene 3 offers a glimpse of Henrique among his friends. Henrique shows himself to be as proficient and bawdy a punner as Merrit. This punning Henrique is what Merrit believes to be the \"true\" Henrique, suddenly freed from the ludicrous melancholy of love: \"Why, is not this better than groaning for love? / Now art thou sociable, now art thou Henrique\" . In the last scene, Eirene tried to battle the social world through the power of her private love; here Merrit tries to assert the social language of male bravado and banter over the private introspection of love. Interestingly, both Eirene and Merrit think they know the \"real\" Henrique. A conflict emerges; even friendship stands in opposition to Henrique's love. Henrique must remain both the private lover and the public Montague and friend, and he must somehow find a way to navigate between the different claims that his two roles demand of him."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Benvolio': 'Ying', 'Romeo': 'Henrique', 'Juliet': 'Eirene', 'Mercutio': 'Merrit', 'Nurse': 'Paiden', 'John': 'Romello', 'Prince': 'Jabrill', 'Peter': 'Wolodymir', 'Gregory': 'Sinai', 'Cupid': 'Jackie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}