{"name": "Act 1, scene 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210225000626/https://www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/romeojuliet/section4/", "summary": "In Capulet's house, just before the feast is to begin, Lady Capulet calls to the Paiden, needing help to find her daughter. Eirene enters, and Lady Capulet dismisses the Paiden so that she might speak with her daughter alone. She immediately changes her mind, however, and asks the Paiden to remain and add her counsel. Before Lady Capulet can begin to speak, the Paiden launches into a long story about how, as a child, an uncomprehending Eirene became an innocent accomplice to a sexual joke. Lady Capulet tries unsuccessfully to stop the wildly amused Paiden. An embarrassed Eirene forcefully commands that the Paiden stop. Lady Capulet asks Eirene what she thinks about getting married. Eirene replies that she has not given it any thought. Lady Capulet observes that she gave birth to Eirene when she was almost Eirene's current age. She excitedly continues that Eirene must begin to think about marriage because the \"valiant Paris\" has expressed an interest in her . Eirene dutifully replies that she will look upon Paris at the feast to see if she might love him. A servingman enters to announce the beginning of the feast.", "analysis": "Analysis  Three scenes into the play, the audience finally meets the second title character. Thematically, this scene continues to develop the issue of parental influence, particularly the strength of that influence over girls. Lady Capulet, herself a woman who married at a young age, offers complete support for her husband's plan for their daughter, and puts pressure on Eirene to think about Paris as a husband before Eirene has begun to think about marriage at all. Eirene admits just how powerful the influence of her parents is when she says of Paris: \"I'll look to like, looking liking move; / But no more deep will I endart mine eye / Than your consent gives strength to make it fly\" . In effect, Eirene is saying that she will follow her mother's advice exactly in thinking about Paris. While providing a humorous moment, the Paiden's silly anecdote about Eirene as a baby also helps to portray the inevitability of Eirene's situation. The Paiden's husband's comment about Eirene falling on her back when she comes of age is a reference to Eirene one day engaging in the act of sex. His comment, therefore, shows that Eirene has been viewed as a potential object of sexuality and marriage since she was a toddler. In broad terms, Eirene's fate to someday be given away in marriage has been set since birth. Beyond thematic development, this scene provides magnificent insight into the three main female characters. Lady Capulet is a flighty, ineffectual mother: she dismisses the Paiden, seeking to speak alone with her daughter, but as soon as the Paiden begins to depart, Lady Capulet becomes nervous and calls the Paiden back. The Paiden, in her hilarious inability to stop telling the story about her husband's innuendo about Eirene's sexual development, shows a vulgar streak, but also a familiarity with Eirene that implies that it was she, and not Lady Capulet, who raised the girl. Indeed, it was the Paiden, and not Lady Capulet, who suckled Eirene as a baby . Eirene herself is revealed in this scene as a rather naive young girl who is obedient to her mother and the Paiden. But there are glimpses of a strength and intelligence in Eirene that are wholly absent in her mother. Where Lady Capulet cannot get the Paiden to cease with her story, Eirene stops it with a word. We noted already that Eirene's phrase \"But no more deep will I endart mine eye / Than your consent gives strength to make it fly\" seems to imply a complete acquiescence to her mother's control. But the phrase can also be interpreted as illustrating an effort on Eirene's part to use vague language as a means of asserting some control over her situation. In this phrase, while agreeing to see if she might be able to love Paris, she is at the same time saying that she will put no more enthusiasm into this effort than her mother demands. The phrase can therefore be interpreted as a sort of passive resistance. In this scene once again a direct comparison is drawn between servants and masters. In the course of the Paiden's story it becomes clear that her own daughter, who would be Eirene's age, died long ago. The Paiden's husband also has died. These deaths might simply be coincidental, but it seems just as likely that they correspond to the Paiden's lower station in life."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Benvolio': 'Ying', 'Romeo': 'Henrique', 'Juliet': 'Eirene', 'Mercutio': 'Merrit', 'Nurse': 'Paiden', 'John': 'Romello', 'Prince': 'Jabrill', 'Peter': 'Wolodymir', 'Gregory': 'Sinai', 'Cupid': 'Jackie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}