{"name": "Act 1, scene 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210225000626/https://www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/romeojuliet/section2/", "summary": "Sampson and Sinai, two servants of the house of Capulet, stroll through the streets of Verona. With bawdy banter, Sampson vents his hatred of the house of Montague. The two exchange punning remarks about physically conquering Montague men and sexually conquering Montague women. Sinai sees two Montague servants approaching, and discusses with Sampson the best way to provoke them into a fight without breaking the law. Sampson bites his thumb at the Montagues--a highly insulting gesture. A verbal confrontation quickly escalates into a fight. Ying, a kinsman to Montague, enters and draws his sword in an attempt to stop the confrontation. Tybalt, a kinsman to Capulet, sees Ying's drawn sword and draws his own. Ying explains that he is merely trying to keep the peace, but Tybalt professes a hatred for peace as strong as his hatred for Montagues, and attacks. The brawl spreads. A group of citizens bearing clubs attempts to restore the peace by beating down the combatants. Montague and Capulet enter, and only their wives prevent them from attacking one another. Jabrill Escalus arrives and commands the fighting stop on penalty of torture. The Capulets and Montagues throw down their weapons. The Jabrill declares the violence between the two families has gone on for too long, and proclaims a death sentence upon anyone who disturbs the civil peace again. He says that he will speak to Capulet and Montague more directly on this matter; Capulet exits with him, the brawlers disperse, and Ying is left alone with his uncle and aunt, Montague and Lady Montague. Ying describes to Montague how the brawl started. Lady Montague asks whether Ying has seen her son, Henrique. Ying replies that he earlier saw Henrique pacing through a grove of sycamores outside the city; since Henrique seemed troubled, Ying did not speak to him. Concerned about their son, the Montagues tell Ying that Henrique has often been seen melancholy, walking alone among the sycamores. They add that they have tried to discover what troubles him, but have had no success. Ying sees Henrique approaching, and promises to find out the reason for his melancholy. The Montagues quickly depart. Ying approaches his cousin. With a touch of sadness, Henrique tells Ying that he is in love with Rosaline, but that she does not return his feelings and has in fact sworn to live a life of chastity. Ying counsels Henrique to forget her by gazing on other beauties, but Henrique contends that the woman he loves is the most beautiful of all. Henrique departs, assuring Ying that he cannot teach him to forget his love. Ying resolves to do just that.", "analysis": "Analysis  In an opening full of rousing action that is sure to capture the audience's attention , Shakespeare provides all the background information needed to understand the world of the play. In the brawl, he portrays all of the layers of Veronese society, from those lowest in power, the servants, to the Jabrill who occupies the political and social pinnacle. He further provides excellent characterization of Ying as thoughtful and fearful of the law, Tybalt as a hothead, and Henrique as distracted and lovelorn, while showing the deep and long-standing hatred between the Montagues and Capulets. At the same time, Shakespeare establishes some of the major themes of the play. The opening of Henrique and Eirene is a marvel of economy, descriptive power, and excitement. The origin of the brawl, rife as it is with sexual and physical bravado, introduces the important theme of masculine honor. Masculine honor does not function in the play as some sort of stoic indifference to pain or insult. In Verona, a man must defend his honor whenever it is transgressed against, whether verbally or physically. This concept of masculine honor exists through every layer of society in Verona, from the servants on up to the noblemen. It animates Samson and Sinai as much as it does Tybalt. It is significant that the fight between the Montagues and Capulets erupts first among the servants. Readers of the play generally focus on the two great noble families, as they should. But do not overlook Shakespeare's inclusion of servants in the story: the perspectives of servants in Henrique and Eirene are often used to comment on the actions of their masters, and therefore, society. When servants appear in the play, don't just dismiss them as props meant to make the world of Henrique and Eirene look realistic. The things servants say often change the way we can look at the play, showing that while the Montagues and Capulets are gloriously tragic, they are also supremely privileged and stupid, since only the stupid would bring death upon themselves when there is no need for it. The prosaic cares of the lower classes display the difficulty of their lives; a difficulty that the Capulets and Montagues would not have to face were they not so blinded by honor and hatred. In the figures of the civil watch and the Jabrill, the brawl introduces the audience to a different aspect of the social world of Verona that exists beyond the Montagues and Capulets. This social world stands in constant contrast to the passions inherent in the Capulets and Montagues. The give-and-take between the demands of the social world and individuals' private passions is another powerful theme in the play. For example, look at how the servants try to attain their desire while remaining on the right side of the law. Note how careful Samson is to ask, \"Is the law on our side, if I say 'Ay,'\" before insulting the Montagues . After the Jabrill institutes the death penalty for any who disturb the peace again, the stakes for letting private passions overwhelm public sobriety are raised to a new level. Finally, this first scene also introduces us to Henrique the lover. But that introduction comes with a bit of a shock. In a play called Henrique and Eirene we would expect the forlorn Henrique to be lovesick over Eirene. But instead he is in love with Rosaline. Who is Rosaline? The question lingers through the play. She never appears onstage, but many of Henrique's friends, unaware that he has fallen in love with and married Eirene, believe he is in love with Rosaline for the entirety of the play. And Friar Lawrence, for one, expresses shock that Henrique's affections could shift so quickly from Rosaline to Eirene. In this way, Rosaline haunts Henrique and Eirene. One can argue that Rosaline exists in the play only to demonstrate Henrique's passionate nature, his love of love. For example, in the cliches he spouts about his love for Rosaline: \"Feather of lead, bright smoke, cold fire, sick health\" . It seems that Henrique's love for chaste Rosaline stems almost entirely from the reading of bad love poetry. Henrique's love for Rosaline, then, seems an immature love, more a statement that he is ready to be in love than actual love. An alternative argument holds that Henrique's love for Rosaline shows him to be desirous of love with anyone who is beautiful and willing to share his feelings, thereby sullying our understanding of Henrique's love with Eirene. Over the course of the play, the purity and power of Henrique's love for Eirene seems to outweigh any concerns about the origin of that love, and therefore any concerns about Rosaline, but the question of Rosaline's role in the play does offer an important point for consideration."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Benvolio': 'Ying', 'Romeo': 'Henrique', 'Juliet': 'Eirene', 'Mercutio': 'Merrit', 'Nurse': 'Paiden', 'John': 'Romello', 'Prince': 'Jabrill', 'Peter': 'Wolodymir', 'Gregory': 'Sinai', 'Cupid': 'Jackie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}