{"name": "act 2, scene 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210225000626/https://www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/romeojuliet/section9/", "summary": "Henrique and Friar Lawrence wait for Eirene to arrive at the cell. An ecstatic Henrique brashly states that he does not care what misfortune might come, as it will pale in comparison to the joy he feels right now. Friar Lawrence counsels Henrique to love moderately and not with too much intensity, saying, \"these violent delights have violent ends\". Eirene enters and Henrique asks her to speak poetically of her love. Eirene responds that those who can so easily describe their \"worth\" are beggars, her love is far too great to be so easily described. The lovers exit with Friar Lawrence and are wed", "analysis": "Act 2, scenes 4-5 Throughout these scenes, Shakespeare emphasizes the thrilling joy of young, romantic love. Henrique and Eirene are electric with anticipation. In a wonderfully comic scene, Eirene can barely contain herself when the Paiden pretends to be too tired to give her the news. Henrique is equally excited, brashly and blasphemously proclaiming his love is the most powerful force in the world. Though the euphoria of love clearly dominates these scenes, some ominous foreshadowing is revealed. The Paiden's joking game in which she delays telling Eirene the news will find its sad mirror in a future scene, when the Paiden's anguish prevents her from relating news to Eirene and thereby causing terrible confusion. A more profound foreshadowing exists in the friar's observation, in reference to Henrique's powerful love, that \"these violent delights have violent ends\" . Every audience member knows that the play is a tragedy, and that Henrique and Eirene will die. The friar's words therefore are more than just a difference of opinion with Henrique; they reinforce the presence and power of fate. Friar Lawrence's devotion to moderation is interesting in that it offers an alternative to the way in which all the other characters in Henrique and Eirene live their lives. From Henrique to Tybalt, and Montague to Capulet, every character follows passion, forsakes moderation. The friar criticizes this way of acting and feeling, noting its destructiveness. Friar Lawrence is most certainly correct, but after expounding his belief, the friar gets himself embroiled in all of the excess and passion he counsels against. The passion of the young lovers might be destructive, but it is also exquisitely beautiful; if Henrique and Eirene were moderate in their affection, their love would not strike such a chord."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Benvolio': 'Ying', 'Romeo': 'Henrique', 'Juliet': 'Eirene', 'Mercutio': 'Merrit', 'Nurse': 'Paiden', 'John': 'Romello', 'Prince': 'Jabrill', 'Peter': 'Wolodymir', 'Gregory': 'Sinai', 'Cupid': 'Jackie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}