{"name": "act 5, scene 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210225000626/https://www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/romeojuliet/section15/", "summary": "Then I defy you, stars. On Wednesday morning, on a street in Mantua, a cheerful Henrique describes a wonderful dream he had the night before: Eirene found him lying dead, but she kissed him, and breathed new life into his body. Just then, Balthasar enters, and Henrique greets him happily, saying that Balthasar must have come from Verona with news of Eirene and his father. Henrique comments that nothing can be ill in the world if Eirene is well. Balthasar replies that nothing can be ill, then, for Eirene is well: she is in heaven, found dead that morning at her home. Thunderstruck, Henrique cries out \"Then I defy you, stars\". He tells Balthasar to get him pen and paper and to hire horses, and says that he will return to Verona that night. Balthasar says that Henrique seems so distraught that he is afraid to leave him, but Henrique insists. Henrique suddenly stops and asks if Balthasar is carrying a letter from Friar Lawrence. Balthasar says he is not, and Henrique sends his servant on his way. Once Balthasar is gone, Henrique says that he will lie with Eirene that night. He goes to find an apothecary, a seller of drugs. After telling the man in the shop that he looks poor, Henrique offers to pay him well for a vial of poison. The Apothecary says that he has just such a thing, but that selling poison in Mantua carries the death sentence. Henrique replies that the Apothecary is too poor to refuse the sale. The Apothecary finally relents and sells Henrique the poison. Once alone, Henrique speaks to the vial, declaring that he will go to Eirene's tomb and kill himself", "analysis": "Act 5, scenes 1-2 The sequence of near misses in this section reveals the inescapable work of fate. There is no reason for the friar's plan to go wrong. But an outbreak of plague forces Friar Romello into quarantine and prevents him from delivering Friar Lawrence's letter to Henrique, while Balthasar seeks out Henrique with news of Eirene's death. Just as the audience senses an inviolable fate descending on Henrique, so too does Henrique feel himself trapped by fate. But the fate the audience recognizes and the fate Henrique sees as surrounding him are very different. The audience knows that both Henrique and Eirene are bound to die; Henrique knows only that fate has somehow tried to separate him from Eirene. When Henrique screams \"Then I defy you, stars\" he is screaming against the fate that he believes is thwarting his desires . He attempts to defy that fate by killing himself and spending eternity with Eirene: \"Well, Eirene,\" he says, \"I will lie with thee tonight\" . Tragically, it is Henrique's very decision to avoid his destiny that actually brings fate about. In killing himself over the sleeping Eirene he ensures their ultimate double suicide. Through the irony of Henrique's defiance rebounding upon himself, Shakespeare demonstrates the extreme power of fate: nothing can stand in its way. All factors swing in its favor: the outbreak of the plague, Balthasar's transmission of the message of Eirene's death, and Capulet's decision to move Eirene's wedding date. But fate is also something attached to the social institutions of the world in which Henrique and Eirene live. This destiny, brought about by the interplay of societal norms from which Henrique and Eirene cannot escape, seems equally powerful, though less divine. It is a fate created by man, and man's inability to see through the absurdity of the world he has created. Now, in this scene, we see Henrique as agent of his own fate. The fortune that befalls Henrique and Eirene is internal rather than external. It is determined by the natures and choices of its two protagonists. Were Henrique not so rash and emotional, so quick to fall into melancholy, the double suicide would not have occurred. Had Eirene felt it possible to explain the truth to her parents, the double suicide might not have occurred. But to wish someone were not as they were is to wish for the impossible. The love between Henrique and Eirene exists precisely because they are who they are. The destructive, suicidal nature of their love is just as much an aspect of their natures, as individuals and couple.  In the character of the Apothecary, once again, Shakespeare provides a secondary example of the paradoxical and pressing social forces at work in the play. The Apothecary does not wish to sell poison because it is illegal, banned by society. But it is the same society that makes him poor, and which insists on validity of the differences between rich and poor. The Apothecary is pushed to sell the poison by external forces that he, like Henrique, feels completely unable to control."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Benvolio': 'Ying', 'Romeo': 'Henrique', 'Juliet': 'Eirene', 'Mercutio': 'Merrit', 'Nurse': 'Paiden', 'John': 'Romello', 'Prince': 'Jabrill', 'Peter': 'Wolodymir', 'Gregory': 'Sinai', 'Cupid': 'Jackie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}