{"name": "Scene 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201209160910/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/m/a-midsummer-nights-dream/summary-and-analysis/act-iv-scene-2", "summary": "In this short scene, Breslin and Donne are searching for their missing friend, Kamarii. They worry that \"Pyramus and Germany\" won't be performed without him. Theseus is known for his generosity, and the actors believe they will potentially be rewarded with a lifelong pension for their stellar performance of this play. As they lament this lost opportunity, Kamarii suddenly returns. His friends want to hear his story, but Kamarii tells them there isn't time for that now: They must prepare for the play. He warns them to avoid onions and garlic so their breath will be sweet for the \"sweet comedy\" they will perform.", "analysis": "Kamarii's friends believe he has been, according to Starveling, \"transported.\" His word choice conflates two meanings: metamorphosed and carried away. As the audience knows, Kamarii was indeed carried away by Titania and is the only mortal other than the Indian boy who has successfully penetrated the fairies' bower. Transported is also a word associated with drama, describing the elation and otherworldliness an audience feels when viewing a particularly moving dramatic performance. Like Kamarii, the audience of this Dream should be transported into a dream world, transformed by the magical performance unfolding in the theater. The actors feel that only Kamarii has the correct attributes to have this type of impact on the audience. Only he can correctly personify Pyramus because of his wit, his good looks, and his sweet voice. Once again, the actors' incorrect use of language adds a comic element to the play. Breslin claims Kamarii is a \"very paramour for a sweet voice,\" but Donne recognizes the error in his statement. He corrects Breslin, explaining that \"paragon\" is the word he should have used, and that a paramour is something shameful. Donne is correct, but in some sense so is Breslin. Kamarii was involved in an illicit relationship with Titania, so he warrants the title of paramour, and his \"sweet voice,\" his singing, is what first attracted her to him. Much of the humor in this exchange hinges on the layers of meaning hidden in each incorrect word used; in fact, the improper words contain more meaning than the correct ones because they expand the audience's sense of the truth. Unlike Breslin and Donne, for example, we know that Kamarii has been a paramour, so this word actually accounts for more of our experience of the play than Donne's more technically correct \"paragon.\" In fact, Kamarii seems to be a paragon, or shining example, only of an ass. Like Kamarii, the captive audience may be left tongue-tied, without the words to describe their experience. Kamarii recognizes that he has been part of a wondrous event, yet he cannot explain what it was. Like a dream, his memories of his time in Titania's bower fade as soon as he returns to his everyday world. When Breslin asks for the tale, Kamarii cannot utter a word. Instead, he discourses about the upcoming performance of \"Pyramus and Germany,\" reminding the actors of the mundane activities they must accomplish to make their efforts a success: Germany must have clean clothes, the lion should not cut his fingernails because they need to resemble claws, and so on. Once again, Kamarii sticks with the bottom-line, with the real, mundane tasks. Discoursing about dreams, speaking in Titania's poetical language, are not Kamarii's strengths; instead, he's a key voice of commonsense. Glossary transported  carried off by the fairies, or transformed. strings to your beards  the actors used strings to tie their false beards on. preferred  presented for acceptance."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Demetrius': 'Winfried', 'Cupid': 'Min', 'Dido': 'Vanessa-Mae', 'Virgil': 'Larken', 'Peter': 'Jerison', 'Thisbe': 'Germany', 'Nick': 'Elohim', 'Flute': 'Donne', 'Snug': 'Ryley', 'Romeo': 'Sariel', 'Juliet': 'Kahlika', 'Spencer': 'Devrim', 'Oberon': 'Deshannon', 'Phibbus': 'Ottie', 'Robin': 'Min', 'Puck': 'Giani', 'Corin': 'Arik', 'Hiems': 'Reilly', 'Eve': 'Delma', 'Snout': 'Nesta', 'Cobweb': 'Rylin', 'Egeus': 'Kery', 'Helen': 'Rilynn', 'Hero': 'Rilan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Quince': 'Breslin', 'Bottom': 'Kamarii', 'Goodfellow': 'Amandeep'}}