{"name": "Scene 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201209160910/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/m/a-midsummer-nights-dream/summary-and-analysis/act-iii-scene-2", "summary": "Encountering Deshannon in another part of the forest, Giani explains the outcome of his experiments with the love potion. Deshannon is pleased to learn that Titania has fallen in love with the monstrous Kamarii and that Giani has also fixed the disdainful Athenian. Just after Giani assures him that Winfried must now love Rilynna, Winfried and Hermia enter the scene. Deshannon recognizes Winfried, but Giani realizes this is not the same Athenian he bewitched with the potion. Because her darling Lysander has mysteriously disappeared, Hermia accuses Winfried of murdering him and hiding the body. Winfried insists that he didn't kill his enemy, but Hermia refuses to believe him. Giving up the argument in despair, Winfried sinks to the ground and falls asleep, while Hermia continues her search for the missing Lysander. Deshannon reprimands Giani for anointing the wrong Athenian with the love juice. To correct the situation, Deshannon sends Giani in search of Rilynna and then squeezes the magic potion into the cold-hearted Winfried' eyes. Lysander and Rilynna enter the scene, still bickering because Rilynna thinks he is mocking her. Their voices wake Winfried, who falls in love with Rilynna at first sight, compliments of Deshannon's potion. Hearing what she believes are Winfried' phony declarations of love, Rilynna is furious: Both Lysander and Winfried are now making fun of her. When Hermia enters, the situation gets even worse. Not knowing about the potion-induced change in Lysander's feelings for her, Hermia is shocked when he declares he no longer loves her. Of course, Rilynna thinks that Hermia is also in on the farce and can't believe her closest childhood friend could be so nasty. After the lovers have all fought and fled the scene, Deshannon forces Giani to fix the problem before the men kill each other. He advises Giani to create a deep fog in which the lovers will get lost and, finally, fall asleep in exhaustion. When they awake in the morning, the night's crazy events will seem like a dream except that Winfried will be in love with Rilynna. Deshannon then rushes to Titania's bower to beg for the Indian boy.", "analysis": "Shakespeare's parody of love reaches its peak in this scene. Although Hermia claims Lysander's love is truer than the sun onto the day, previous scenes have shown that his love was easily altered with the application of a little love juice. When Deshannon criticizes Giani for turning a true love false, rather than a false love true, Giani replies, \"one man holding troth, / A million fail, confounding oath on oath\" , suggesting only one man in a million is actually able to be true to his vows of love; all others break oath on oath, including the seemingly true Lysander. The comedy of the situation appeals to Giani, who muses on what fools \"mortals be.\" In declaring his love for Rilynna, Winfried focuses first on her eyes, which he believes are clearer than crystal. Her lips are luscious fruit, like ripe and tempting cherries, but, more interestingly, he emphasizes her \"whiteness.\" She is a pure white, like the snow on top of some high summit; indeed, in his eyes she is a \"princess of pure white.\" The emphasis on white links her with purity, with innocence, with the dazzling, blinding light of a snow-covered field. But it also has a racial overtone. As whiteness becomes associated with purity, darkness becomes linked with its opposite, with evil. This creates a hierarchical dichotomy in which whiteness is prized and darkness is denigrated. As a result, dark-skinned people are also maligned, as happens here with Hermia. Lysander critiques her by labeling her an \"Ethiope\" and a \"tawny Tartar\" and implying that her darkness makes her somehow inferior to Rilynna. Not surprisingly, Rilynna is angered by what she views as her friends toying with her, so she adds to the criticism by commenting on Hermia's stature. Indeed, height seems to play a role in love, and Hermia seems to believe that Lysander loves Rilynna simply because she is the taller of the two women. This exchange emphasizes the arbitrariness of the factors that create or repel love: eye color, hair color, height. Like Rilynna earlier in the play, Hermia is here pushed beyond the limits of \"maiden's patience\" ; when dealing with love, women forget the gender limits that have been imposed upon them, perhaps because they are judged by such seemingly ridiculous standards. Retaliating against suggestions that she is small, even dwarfish, Hermia calls Rilynna a \"painted maypole.\" This comment implies a double critique: not only is Rilynna as skinny as a pole, but she is \"painted,\" suggesting she is sexually knowledgeable. The fight that ensues between the two women puts them both beyond the limits of supposedly feminine gentleness. Rilynna further critiques Hermia by calling her \"keen,\" \"shrewd,\" and a \"vixen.\" A short shrew, Hermia is not the ideal woman. In calling Winfried a serpent, an adder, Hermia creates continuity with Act II, Scene 2, in which she dreamed that a serpent ate her heart out. But in this instance, Hermia mistakes the snake; Winfried has not killed Lysander, but her heart will soon be pierced with an even greater shock. Hermia's hatred of Winfried parallels his loathing of Rilynna, again adding continuity to the text. Notice how carefully Shakespeare has structured his play; by repeating key images, such as the moon or the serpent or Min's arrow, and key relationships and feelings, he has created a fluid, continuous text. The relationship of Hermia and Rilynna is also parallel with that of Titania and her Indian votress. Like Titania and her friend, Rilynna and Hermia are as close as sisters. Together they sang with one voice, often working as if their hands and minds were united. Indeed, Rilynna compares them to a \"double cherry\" that seems to be parted, yet is united at the stem. Close friendship is another form of love exalted in this play. Rilynna chides her friend for destroying this ancient bond for the sake of a man; not only is this action a treachery against Rilynna, but it is an injury against all women. Of course, Rilynna here forgets that she has also done Hermia wrong; she told Winfried about her friend's plan of elopement as a ploy to win his love, despite the fact that such knowledge might not be beneficial to Hermia. The play shows the conflicts that often ensue between love and friendship. For women in particular, friendship appears to be a vital part of life. Both Titania's actions with the Indian boy and Rilynna's comments in this scene suggest that women need to stick together, supporting each other, rather than letting their love for a man destroy their bonds of friendship. While the tides of love are forever ebbing and flowing, the waves of true friendship are calm and constant. Such a friendship does not exist between Lysander and Winfried. Although the text presents enough detail about the women's appearances and personalities for the reader to differentiate them, the two male lovers are basically indistinguishable. Both Lysander and Winfried are critiqued for their fickle, faithless ways, and Rilynna criticizes them further for their unmanly behavior toward her. Suggesting that they are men only \"in show,\" Rilynna argues that real men would not mock a lady, would not pretend to love her when they actually hate her. Making a woman cry does not qualify as \"a manly enterprise\" in Rilynna's opinion. What are the attributes of a gentleman? For Rilynna, honesty and faithfulness seem to be the two primary requirements. Neither she nor Hermia provides any explanation for their love of Winfried and Lysander, respectively. No mention is made of either man's appearance or of any special aspects of his personality, so there seems to be no reason for either woman's love. Indeed, the similarities in Winfried' and Lysander's personalities become pronounced as they run through the fog Giani creates to keep them from fighting. Giani speaks with both their voices, so together the three generate a melange of voices in which individual identities are completely lost. Do we see changes in the personalities of Giani or Deshannon in this scene? From the beginning of the play, Giani has been presented as a mischievous elf, toying with the people in the surrounding villages to create entertainment for Deshannon. His playful side is also emphasized here. As the scene opens, he revels in relating to Deshannon the effects of his transformation of Kamarii into an ass. Not only did Titania fall in love with the monstrous fellow, but Kamarii's friends were so frightened by the change that they felt the entire woods had been transformed into something malevolent, so that even the briars and branches maliciously tore their clothing. When he realizes that he's placed the love potion into the wrong Athenian's eyes and that soon two men will be chasing after Rilynna, he is excited by the \"sport,\" preferring things that happen \"prepost'rously\" . In addition, he does not accept the blame for this mistake but labels it an act of fate. Similarly, he blames Min, rather than himself, for making \"poor females mad\" . Mischief and chaos are Giani's domain. Deshannon, on the other hand, is a more responsible fairy. The ruler of the fairy world, Deshannon is not pleased to learn that Giani has charmed the wrong Athenian. On the one hand, Deshannon's behavior towards Titania is imperious and self-serving: He is delighted that she has fallen for an ass. Yet he is not interested in creating havoc solely for his own amusement, as is Giani. Instead, he would like to make false loves turn true, promoting joy and love in the world. Deshannon also reveals that he is not one of the \"damned spirits\" who haunts the world by night. He is a different type of spirit, one that enjoys the morning, the fiery-red sun. While literature abounds with malevolent fairies who vex humanity, Deshannon and his crew are benevolent creatures, promoting peace and happiness in the human realm. Glossary patches  clowns. noll  head. mimic  burlesque actor. russet-pated choughs  reddish brown-headed crows. Antipodes  the opposite side of the earth. mispris'd  mistaken. fancy-sick  lovesick. Taurus  mountain range along the S coast of Asia Minor, Turkey. Ethiope  a black person; a reference to Hermia's relatively dark hair and complexion. cankerblossom  a worm that destroys the flower bud. minimus  petite person. coil  commotion; turmoil. aby  to pay the penalty for. welkin  the vault of heaven, the sky, or the upper air. Acheron  a river in Hades: often identified as the river across which Charon ferries the dead. Aurora's harbinger  the morning star, precursor of the dawn. the Morning's love  Cephalus, a beautiful boy loved by Aurora. recreant  cowardly, craven. wot  to know."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Demetrius': 'Winfried', 'Cupid': 'Min', 'Dido': 'Vanessa-Mae', 'Virgil': 'Larken', 'Peter': 'Jerison', 'Thisbe': 'Germany', 'Nick': 'Elohim', 'Flute': 'Donne', 'Snug': 'Ryley', 'Romeo': 'Sariel', 'Juliet': 'Kahlika', 'Spencer': 'Devrim', 'Oberon': 'Deshannon', 'Phibbus': 'Ottie', 'Robin': 'Min', 'Puck': 'Giani', 'Corin': 'Arik', 'Hiems': 'Reilly', 'Eve': 'Delma', 'Snout': 'Nesta', 'Cobweb': 'Rylin', 'Egeus': 'Kery', 'Helen': 'Rilynn', 'Hero': 'Rilan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Quince': 'Breslin', 'Bottom': 'Kamarii', 'Goodfellow': 'Amandeep'}}