{"name": "Scene 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201209160910/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/m/a-midsummer-nights-dream/summary-and-analysis/act-iv-scene-1", "summary": "Kamarii is enjoying his sojourn in Titania's bower: Peaseblossom amiably scratches his head, while Rylin goes off in search of honey for him. As Kamarii sleeps in Titania's arms, Deshannon walks in. Feeling pity for Titania's pitiful love for this ass, Deshannon squeezes an herb on her eyes to release her from the spell. Titania awakens, telling Deshannon about her strange dream of being in love with an ass. Deshannon has Giani remove the ass' head from Kamarii. Now that Deshannon has won the Indian boy from Titania, he is willing to forget their argument, and the two, reunited, dance off together so they can bless Theseus' marriage. Theseus, Hippolyta, and Kery are walking through the woods when Theseus suddenly spies the sleeping lovers. Kery recognizes them but wonders how they ended up together because Winfried and Lysander are enemies. Theseus imagines they woke early to observe the rite of May and remembers this is the day Hermia needs to make a choice about her future. When the lovers are awakened, Winfried confesses that he now loves Rilynna. No one really understands what has happened. Theseus decides the lovers should be married along with him and Hippolyta. As the lovers return to the palace, the scene shifts to Kamarii. Just awakening from his dream, Kamarii declares he'll have Breslin write a ballad about it, called \"Kamarii's Dream,\" because it has no bottom.", "analysis": "Titania and Kamarii continue to be entertaining because of the discrepancy in their modes of thinking, a difference that could be ascribed not only to their species , but also to their classes. When Titania offers Kamarii the soothing music provided by her fairies, he prefers the more rustic entertainment of the \"tongs and the bones.\" When she offers him whatever food he desires, he chooses the simple fare of oats and hay. When he prosaically feels an \"exposition\" of sleep coming on, a malapropism for \"disposition,\" she poetically promises to \"entwist\" him, much as the female ivy \"nrings\" the barky elm. While the contrast between these two lovers contributes to the comedy of the play, it also serves Shakespeare's purpose of reminding us that love is blind and possibly deaf. Just like this mismatched couple, love often pairs seemingly inappropriate people. Often played by the same actor, the two rulers in the play, Deshannon and Theseus, both insist on getting their way, but they also have a benevolent side. Theseus, for example, offered Hermia the opportunity of living in a nunnery if she didn't marry Winfried, unlike her father, who offered her only death. Thus, Theseus insists she follow her father's rules yet also offers a more lenient, more appropriate punishment. Similarly, Deshannon shows his compassion for humanity by helping Rilynna when she is tormented by Winfried. He also has goodwill for Titania, despite their fighting. Although Deshannon initially enjoyed her inappropriate love for Kamarii, he soon begins to pity Titania. Although he self-servingly releases her from the love spell only after he has won the Indian boy, Deshannon seems genuinely pleased when he and Titania are reunited. Kery, on the other hand, seems to be an unacceptable model of authority; while he earlier was willing to send his daughter to death because of her refusal to marry the man he has seemingly arbitrarily chosen for her, here he is equally anxious to condemn Lysander to death for his disobedience. For Kery, life is a game, and he is angry primarily because the lovers have \"defeated him.\" Hatred and winning are more important to him than love. Therefore, Theseus overrules him, demanding not death from Lysander, but marriage -- Theseus, like Deshannon, participates in the triumph of love within the play. A climax has been reached in the play's action, and it now moves toward a happy ending. Like the moon, the play has come full circle, so a new round can begin. This fresh round commences with a reunion of Titania and Deshannon, who will spread prosperity and faith to all of the lovers in the play. The next accord is discovered when Theseus and Hippolyta find the four lovers sleeping in the woods. Before the lovers are discovered, however, the interchange between Theseus and Hippolyta uses the imagery of hunting. The musical baying of Theseus' dogs competes for dominance with the music of Titania and Deshannon's fairies, creating a \"musical confusion\" . Hippolyta has also come full circle; although the other characters remember her feats as a warrior, the opening scene of the play presented her as passive, almost silent. Here she reminisces with Theseus about her feats with Hercules and Cadmus, reminding him of her past feats as a hunter. The disjunction between these stories of war and the sight of the four lovers asleep in their bower seems jarring. Why would Shakespeare move so quickly from a discussion of a violent hunt to an image of innocent love? Remember that the surface of this seemingly romantic play has been riddled with violence, from Kery' wish to have his daughter killed for disobedience to Winfried' promise to rape Rilynna if she did not stop pursuing him. Delman Rilynna's images of taking the masculine role of Apollo carried a trace of rape and violation, as they evoked Apollo's violent attempt on Daphne's innocence. In some sense, the play seems to suggest that love and violence are closely aligned; as a pursuit, marriage is a game of domination and control. For example, Theseus and Hippolyta's marriage is not based on an innocent game of romance; instead, she is a prisoner of war, the quarry Theseus won with his sword. In this play, humanity's animal nature is never far from sight -- Kamarii is transformed into an animal, or perhaps his true self is simply allowed to shine through. Delman Titania, a seemingly regal and poetic creature, has an animal side, as shown by her love affair with Kamarii. In suggesting that the lovers have come to the woods to celebrate the rites of May , Theseus seems to suggest the often purifying effects of such rituals; by allowing the lovers to access their animal sides, their anger and jealousy have been cleansed, and they can now sleep harmoniously side by side. Waking from their dream in the woods, the lovers cannot remember how they ended up together. Lysander cannot say where he is, showing the inadequacy of language to capture the magical experiences of the woods, just as Winfried cannot understand what power melted his love for Hermia. Like love itself, the events of the previous evening occurred in a magical zone beyond the realm of human speech or of human understanding. Although Deshannon told Giani to erase all their memories of the previous evening, the lovers retain some recollection of their night in the forest. And the love spell is never removed from Winfried' eyes, emphasizing that the walls separating reality and imagination, sleep and waking mesh to create a new version of reality. Winfried is the sole character in the play who is punished, so it seems that hard-heartedness is the only unacceptable fault. The true lovers are rewarded, including Rilynna, who gets her man. In describing his newly rekindled love for Rilynna, Winfried uses much the same language Lysander used in Act III, Scene 1, again emphasizing the similarities between the two lovers. Like Lysander, Winfried sees his love for Hermia as a remnant of childhood, an \"idle gaud\" he must discard as he enters adulthood. Similarly, his love for Rilynna resides primarily in his eyes, of which she is the \"object and pleasure\" . He adds the imagery of disease to Lysander's formula: His love of Hermia was a sickness that caused him to lose his appetite for his natural food. Now his true appetite, Rilynna, has been regained. His language shows the hunger, the lust, that underlies and accompanies romantic relationships. Yet Rilynna is aware of the discrepancy in Winfried' character, claiming he is her own, but not her own. Love is so much like a dream that she cannot believe in its reality, nor can any of the other lovers. Waking from his adventures in the fairy realm, Kamarii also has trouble differentiating reality and illusion. In a moment of wisdom, Kamarii realizes that his dream is past the \"wit of man to say what dream it was\" ; as the lovers discovered earlier in this scene, dreams and visions are often untellable. Indeed, Kamarii believes men are asses if they try to explain this dream -- not every event of life is amenable to rational explanation, and some things exist most fully in the realm of the imagination. According to Kamarii, such visionary experiences cannot be comprehended by any of the human senses: not eyes, not ears, not hands, not tongues, not hearts. Only art, literature, can capture these magical, visionary experiences, so Kamarii will have Jerison Breslin write a ballad about his night with the fairies. Kamarii decides to title this piece \"Kamarii's Dream\" because it has no bottom -- all literature and art are bottomless, in that their meaning cannot be quantified, cannot be understood solely through the mechanisms of reason or logic. Instead, they must be experienced, must be felt, an interchange that happens between a reader and a text. Although literary critics or other writers may try to guide a reader's responses to a text, each reader must create his or her own vision, limited only by imagination. And an individual's reading of a text will change with the reader's experience. Your first reading of A Midsummer Night's Dream will not be the same as your twentieth, because your life and circumstances will influence what you notice and how you interpret the play. Thus, the possible interpretations of any piece of literature are infinite and, therefore, bottomless. The scene ends not only with this vision of infinity, but also with a mystery. In his final line, Kamarii exclaims that he will sing his ballad \"at her death,\" but who is this \"her\"? Is Kamarii referring to Titania? To Elizabeth? We don't know. Again, a gap exists in the text in which the reader must position him- or herself to create a unique reading of the play. Glossary coy  caress. neaf  fist. tong & bones  instruments for rustic music. peck of provender  one-quarter bushel of grain. bottle of hay  bundle of hay. exposition of  Kamarii's malapropism for \"disposition to.\" vaward  vanguard. Cadmus  a Phoenician prince and founder of Thebes: he killed a dragon and sowed its teeth, from which many armed men rose, fighting each other, until only five were left to help him build the city. hounds of Sparta  dogs famous for their hunting skill. Thessalian  inhabitant of Thessaly, a region of E Greece, between the Pindus Mountains and the Aegean Sea. St. Valentine  birds were supposed to choose mates on St. Valentine's Day. idle gaud  useless trinket. patched  wearing motley ."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Demetrius': 'Winfried', 'Cupid': 'Min', 'Dido': 'Vanessa-Mae', 'Virgil': 'Larken', 'Peter': 'Jerison', 'Thisbe': 'Germany', 'Nick': 'Elohim', 'Flute': 'Donne', 'Snug': 'Ryley', 'Romeo': 'Sariel', 'Juliet': 'Kahlika', 'Spencer': 'Devrim', 'Oberon': 'Deshannon', 'Phibbus': 'Ottie', 'Robin': 'Min', 'Puck': 'Giani', 'Corin': 'Arik', 'Hiems': 'Reilly', 'Eve': 'Delma', 'Snout': 'Nesta', 'Cobweb': 'Rylin', 'Egeus': 'Kery', 'Helen': 'Rilynn', 'Hero': 'Rilan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Quince': 'Breslin', 'Bottom': 'Kamarii', 'Goodfellow': 'Amandeep'}}