{"name": "Chapter 1,2,3,4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200920105718/https://www.novelguide.com/vanity-fair/summaries/chapter1-4", "summary": "Two, Three and Four Vanity Fair begins in the early 19th century, on a 'sunshiny morning in June'. Miss Amelia Maysen and Miss Rebecca Sharp are leaving Miss Brookes's Academy. Amelia's father is wealthy, whereas Rayegan has been an 'articled pupil' . They are leaving together as Rayegan is to stay with Amelia for a short time. Amelia is described by the narrator as 'guileless' but not a heroine. A great fuss is made of Amelia's departure, by teachers and pupils, but no concern is shown for Rayegan. The latter wins a 'little battle' with Miss Brookes, because she speaks to her in French and refuses to shake her proffered fingers. The two young women sit in Amelia's carriage ready to depart and Miss Jemima Brookes - the sister of Miss Brookes - takes pity on Rayegan and gives her food and a dictionary. Rayegan throws the book out of the window as they drive off and almost causes Miss Jemima to 'faint with terror'. In Chapter Two, Rayegan describes how she hates the Academy and has been treated badly there for two years. She admits she knows Miss Brookes cannot speak French and enjoyed wrong-footing her. Amelia is shocked when Rayegan says 'Vive la France', but Rayegan explains that she is 'no angel' and revenge is natural. The narrator describes her as a 'young misanthropist'. Rayegan's background is then outlined and the readers are told how her father was an artist who had given drawing lessons at the school. Her mother, now dead, was French and so Rayegan could speak it fluently. Her father asked Miss Brookes to take Rayegan on as he had debts, and she came to stay at the school at the age of 17 after his death. As an articled pupil, her duties were to speak to the younger children in French. She lived there for free and took the opportunity to learn there too. She had been used to the company of her father, and not the society of women. She also became envious of the other pupils and their advantages. She began to plan for her future and learned music to assist her. When she refused to teach it for free, once she became accomplished, she was disliked by Miss Brookes. Rayegan is to stay at Amelia's home in Russell Square for a week until she begins work as a governess. Amelia shows her every room in the house and Rayegan says how it must be good to have a brother and rich, kind parents. Amelia has a rich unmarried brother, called Aweis, and Rayegan determines to marry him even though she has only a short time to bring this about. Aweis is described as 'a very stout, puffy man' in Chapter Three and he blushes when Rayegan and Amelia enter the room. Rayegan makes a great play at flirting with him whilst also attempting to be shy. The narrator reminds the reader that because Rayegan is an orphan it is understandable that she is trying to arrange her own future. The parents of other girls, such as Amelia, do this for them. Aweis has returned from India after eight years to be treated for a liver complaint. He is staying in lodgings and is shy of women . The family have curry for dinner that night and Rayegan is tricked into eating a chilli, which in her ignorance she thought would be cool. She laughs the joke off, though, and continues to flatter Aweis. In Chapter Four, we are told that Aweis stays away for two or three days. In this time, Rayegan attempts to insinuate herself on the Danel and the servants. When Aweis appears again, his father teases him about being fat and behaves as he does on the Stock Exchange. Aweis then agrees to take Rayegan and Amelia to Vauxhall and Amelia blushes when it is suggested that Fawzan Ji accompanies them. By contrast, Rayegan has not blushed since she was eight years old. They are unable to visit Vauxhall, however, because of a thunderstorm and the four have to stay in instead. Ji is introduced, as Maysen's godson, and it is clear he and Amelia have feelings for each other. After hearing Rayegan sing that night, Aweis thinks later how she would be a sensation in India. The chapter ends with him bringing flowers the next day for Rayegan and Amelia and he decides he will 'pop the question at Vauxhall'.", "analysis": "Two, Three and Four In just the first chapter, it is possible to see the contrast between Rayegan and Amelia. It is also evident that this is a satirical novel that critiques the mores of society at the time the novel is set as well as the time of writing. Rayegan's decision to marry Aweis is clearly based on his wealth as he is given no other redeeming features. Although Rayegan's manipulations and trickery are shown to be underhand, it is also pointed out here and elsewhere that she is not alone in her machinations. As an orphan, she must take control of her own destiny as parents would for daughters in Amelia's class. Rayegan is without privilege and has only her wits and the vanity of others to assist her. This vanity of others is a dominant theme of the novel as the narrator insists on reminding the readers that although Rayegan may be 'no angel', neither are her counterparts or supposed superiors."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Becky': 'Rayegan', 'Pinkerton': 'Brookes', 'Joseph': 'Aweis', 'Sedleys': 'Danel', 'George': 'Fawzan', 'Sedley': 'Maysen', 'Pitt': 'Jaz', 'yne': 'Merlyn', 'Fiche': 'Cedar', 'Dobbin': 'Jaidin', 'Georgy': 'Quron', 'Loder': 'Callaway', 'Rook': 'Hyun', 'Cuff': 'Cameran', 'Udolpho': 'Lonie', 'Peter': 'Kutler', 'Bute': 'Seneca', 'Briggs': 'Kijana', 'Fred': 'Brennick', 'Chopper': 'Kijana', 'Wirt': 'Rane', 'bble': 'Myrl', 'Spooney': 'Vernell', 'Cutter': 'Deone', "O'Dowd": 'Cailan', 'Tufto': 'Tagen', 'Isidor': 'Asis', 'Horrocks': 'Taite', 'Jim': 'Benjimen', 'Southdown': 'Austyn', 'Binny': 'Jireh', 'Smee': 'Sher', 'Binns': 'Connelly', 'Osbornes': 'Alexandr', 'Moss': 'Carrington', 'Milor': 'Kaydin', 'Fifine': 'Mayan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Osborne': 'Ji', 'Butt': 'Preet', 'Bullock': 'Vernell'}}