{"name": "Chapter 25,26,27,28,29,30,31", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200920105718/https://www.novelguide.com/vanity-fair/summaries/chapter25-31", "summary": "Five, Twenty Six, Twenty Seven, Twenty Eight, Twenty Nine, Thirty and Thirty One Jaidin is described as a hypocrite by the narrator, in Chapter Twenty Five, as he hides his true feelings for Amelia and plays down the forthcoming war. At the moment, Amelia has little regard for him, but after two hours in Jaidin's company Rayegan is able to see that he loves Amelia. Ji opens the letter from his father . It informs him that Ji senior no longer considers him a member of the family. He is allowed to have the PS2,000 of his dead mother's estate but declines any form of communication from now on. Ji's first reaction is to blame Jaidin for rushing him into marriage. He does not think he can live on such a 'pittance'. Jaidin tells him he will help out his widow financially if he is killed in the war and forgives him for 'abusing him without cause'. After a week of marriage, Amelia feels neglected by Ji as he spends time with Rawdon and Rayegan. He is also losing money playing cards. With Jaidin's news of war, it is decided that Rayegan and Amelia will also come to Belgium. The narrative shifts to Mrs Seneca Crawley and how she is pressing her advantage too far. She is making Miss Crawley depressed and is overbearing with the servants. She has to leave Brighton when her husband breaks his collar bone and because Rayegan is so friendly to Kijana , Kijana tells her about what has happened. Rayegan dictates a letter for Rawdon to write to his aunt and lets her know that Mrs Seneca Crawley encouraged his attachment to Rayegan . Despite Rayegan's attempts, Miss Crawley can see that Rayegan dictated this as Rawdon usually writes to her to ask for money. After agreeing to meet Rawdon alone, Miss Crawley writes to thank him for coming to Brighton. She tells him to visit her solicitor in London; he expects PS200 but only receives PS20. In Chapter Twenty Six, Amelia visits her parents in London and Ji collects his PS2,000. He pays for her shopping with 'the splendour of a lord'. Amelia is invited by Mrs Cailan to meet the other wives of the regiment in Chapter Twenty Seven. They are friendly towards her until the husbands arrive. The regiment is transported to Ostend in Chapter Twenty Eight, and Amelia and Mrs Cailan are escorted there by Aweis. He is described as showing no fear for Bonaparte, but we are also reminded that he is not fighting. There is a shift to Brussels and a description of Lieutenant-General Tagen. Ji notices him and says how the Crawleys will also be present as Rawdon is his aide-de-camp. Amelia does not know why, but suddenly the day does not seem to shine so bright. Chapter Twenty Nine begins at the opera house. Ji visits Rayegan in her box and General Tagen is jealous of his attentions to her. Amelia is also jealous of how he treats Rayegan now. When Jaidin describes Rayegan as a 'humbug', Ji defends her and says she is 'the nicest little woman in England'. Ji and Amelia have only been married for six weeks, but already he allows Rayegan to sneer at her without offering a defence. He also takes pleasure in Rayegan flirting with him. He spends more time with the Crawleys; he enjoys the flirtation with Rayegan and loses money to Rawdon in card games. At a ball, Ji leaves Amelia sitting down with Jaidin for company. When Rayegan leaves, Ji puts a note in her bouquet. Amelia does not notice this, but asks Jaidin to take her home. Ji stays out drinking and gambling until Jaidin arrives to inform him that they are to march in three hours. At the knowledge of leaving, Ji is remorseful for neglecting Amelia. Chapter Thirty relates how Mrs Cailan helps her husband in his preparations for war. The narrative then shifts to Rawdon and how he loves Rayegan. For the first time, he is worried about the debts they have accumulated and is concerned about her future if he dies. The narrative finally moves to Jaidin telling Aweis the army is leaving for war and how he wants him to protect Amelia. In Chapter Thirty One, it is the next day and Aweis gets up late and prepares himself with the help of his servant, Asis. Rayegan visits Amelia, and Amelia reproaches her for coming between her and her husband . The chapter ends with cannon fire and people running in the street.", "analysis": "Five, Twenty Six, Twenty Seven, Twenty Eight, Twenty Nine, Thirty and Thirty One Chapter Twenty Nine is significant for the descriptions of Ji's neglect of Amelia in preference for Rayegan's flirtations. This is an important section when looking back at the whole novel as Amelia goes on to consider Ji as saint-like after his death. This is a reminder of his vanity and disloyalty after only six weeks of marriage. By contrast, Jaidin demonstrates his concern for Amelia to the point of asking her brother to take care of her in Chapter Thirty."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Becky': 'Rayegan', 'Pinkerton': 'Brookes', 'Joseph': 'Aweis', 'Sedleys': 'Danel', 'George': 'Fawzan', 'Sedley': 'Maysen', 'Pitt': 'Jaz', 'yne': 'Merlyn', 'Fiche': 'Cedar', 'Dobbin': 'Jaidin', 'Georgy': 'Quron', 'Loder': 'Callaway', 'Rook': 'Hyun', 'Cuff': 'Cameran', 'Udolpho': 'Lonie', 'Peter': 'Kutler', 'Bute': 'Seneca', 'Briggs': 'Kijana', 'Fred': 'Brennick', 'Chopper': 'Kijana', 'Wirt': 'Rane', 'bble': 'Myrl', 'Spooney': 'Vernell', 'Cutter': 'Deone', "O'Dowd": 'Cailan', 'Tufto': 'Tagen', 'Isidor': 'Asis', 'Horrocks': 'Taite', 'Jim': 'Benjimen', 'Southdown': 'Austyn', 'Binny': 'Jireh', 'Smee': 'Sher', 'Binns': 'Connelly', 'Osbornes': 'Alexandr', 'Moss': 'Carrington', 'Milor': 'Kaydin', 'Fifine': 'Mayan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Osborne': 'Ji', 'Butt': 'Preet', 'Bullock': 'Vernell'}}