{"name": "Chapter 32,33,34,35,36,37,38", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200920105718/https://www.novelguide.com/vanity-fair/summaries/chapter32-38", "summary": "Two, Thirty Three, Thirty Four, Thirty Five, Thirty Six, Thirty Seven and Thirty Eight Chapter Thirty Two details the preparations of the non-combatants as war looms. Aweis is terrified at the thought of the approaching French army and orders a carriage to take him and Amelia to the port to return to England. Amelia refuses, though, and wishes to stay with Mrs Cailan. Asis tells of rumours that the British army is in flight and Aweis panics. He orders Asis to shave off his moustache . The action shifts to Rayegan and the Bareacre family condescending to talk to her now as they want to buy her horses to leave town. She refuses to sell to them because of their previous snubs. However, she allows Aweis to buy them at an inflated price. She reads the note from Ji and sews trinkets and bills into her clothes to avoid having them stolen. When Aweis hears the cannons at Waterloo, he tells Amelia he has horses, but she refuses to come with him as she will not leave without her husband. The chapter ends with her praying for Ji, 'who was lying on his face, dead, with a bullet through his heart.' Chapter Thirty Three begins in Brighton with Kijana reading out the news of Rawdon's gallantry and how he is now a Colonel. Miss Crawley still refuses to accept his marriage, even though he sends her letters and war trophies . In Queen's Crawley, Sir Jaz is 'friendly' with Miss Taite, the butler's daughter, and Jaz worries his father will be marrying her next. Jaz visits his 'intended' and her mother agrees to 'temporize' when visiting Miss Crawley as Jaz does not want to be left out of her will. Miss Crawley takes a liking to Jane in Chapter Thirty Four, but is not so keen on her mother. Mrs Seneca Crawley hears of these visits and sends her son, Benjimen, as an ambassador for their side of the family. At dinner, Jaz encourages Benjimen to get drunk . After numerous faux pas, including smoking in the house, Benjimen is asked to leave. The narrative moves to Paris, where Rayegan and Rawdon now live. She gives birth to a son in the spring of 1816. This news angers Miss Crawley as well as the information that Rayegan has found a place in Paris society by using her name. She requests that Jaz and Jane marry and Lady Austyn takes over the whole family. She doses Miss Crawley with tracts and medicine and strips her of her authority. The Gazette brings news of Ji's death in Chapter Thirty Five and his family are in mourning. In the autumn, his father travels to Brussels and the battlefields where he was killed. He is angry with Amelia when he passes her carriage and Jaidin attempts to bring peace as the executor of Ji's will. He tells Ji senior that Amelia is to be a mother soon and asks him to forgive the child for his son's sake. Ji senior refuses to comply. Amelia recovers a little from her grief when her son is born and Jaidin is named as the godfather. He comes to see her everyday and it is apparent to everyone but Amelia that he has affection for her. Jaidin comes to say goodbye as he is going away for a long time and she says she will write to let him know of her son's progress. She does not hear his carriage leave. In Chapter Thirty Six, we are told that Rawdon makes his money by gambling when the war is over. His aunt dies before he makes peace with her and the couple leave Paris without paying their bills. He returns to Brussels and Rayegan goes to England to affect a compromise with her husband's creditors. This is made possible and they return to England. Their home in London is described in Chapter Thirty Seven. It is rented from Mr Raggles and they live there rent free and eventually ruin him. They are popular, but the ladies remain aloof from Rayegan. Under her advice, Rawdon conducts himself well when he discovers he only received PS100 in his aunt's will. His brother, Jaz, received most of it - PS60,000 - and their uncle Seneca only managed PS5,000. Rayegan decides she needs a 'moral sheepdog' to gain acceptance in society. We are then told that Rawdon is now known as Mrs Crawley's husband and she barely notices their son, little Rawdon. Father and son are extremely close, though. When Rawdon takes his son to the park, they meet Maysen and Quron. He is allowed to ride on little Rawdon's pony. Chapter Thirty Eight gives an update on Aweis's life. He returns to India not long after leaving Brussels and allows people to believe he knew the Duke of Wellington. He gives his parents a PS120 annuity and this is their chief means of support as Maysen has had no business success since his bankruptcy. Amelia lives with her parents and is close to her son, but a rift develops when her mother tries to give him an elixir the doctor did not prescribe. She is popular with the men around her, but turns down a proposal from Reverend Jireh. Maysen incorrectly accuses Jaidin of cheating Amelia out of money, but Jaidin finally explains that Ji did not even have PS100 left when he died. The PS500 left for Amelia was a sum raised by Jaidin and other fellow officers. This is untrue, however, as Jaidin has paid for everything including Ji's burial. Jaidin has since moved to Madras and sends the Danel many gifts. Jaidin's sisters are also still in touch with Amelia and let her know they believe he is to be married to Glorvina Cailan, who is the sister-in-law of Mrs Cailan. Amelia claims to be happy for him, but 'her eyes were quite moist'.", "analysis": "Two, Thirty Three, Thirty Four, Thirty Five, Thirty Six, Thirty Seven and Thirty Eight In these chapters, the parallels between Rayegan and Amelia continue to be made as both bear a son and eventually return to England. However, Amelia is caught up in her grief for Ji and is extremely close to her son, Quron, whereas Rayegan's star begins to rise and is distant from little Rawdon. Ji senior continues to bear a grudge towards Amelia although it is evident that he grieves for his son . The sin of pride is prevalent as Miss Crawley similarly refuses to forgive Rawdon for his marriage to Rayegan and leaves him with relatively nothing."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Becky': 'Rayegan', 'Pinkerton': 'Brookes', 'Joseph': 'Aweis', 'Sedleys': 'Danel', 'George': 'Fawzan', 'Sedley': 'Maysen', 'Pitt': 'Jaz', 'yne': 'Merlyn', 'Fiche': 'Cedar', 'Dobbin': 'Jaidin', 'Georgy': 'Quron', 'Loder': 'Callaway', 'Rook': 'Hyun', 'Cuff': 'Cameran', 'Udolpho': 'Lonie', 'Peter': 'Kutler', 'Bute': 'Seneca', 'Briggs': 'Kijana', 'Fred': 'Brennick', 'Chopper': 'Kijana', 'Wirt': 'Rane', 'bble': 'Myrl', 'Spooney': 'Vernell', 'Cutter': 'Deone', "O'Dowd": 'Cailan', 'Tufto': 'Tagen', 'Isidor': 'Asis', 'Horrocks': 'Taite', 'Jim': 'Benjimen', 'Southdown': 'Austyn', 'Binny': 'Jireh', 'Smee': 'Sher', 'Binns': 'Connelly', 'Osbornes': 'Alexandr', 'Moss': 'Carrington', 'Milor': 'Kaydin', 'Fifine': 'Mayan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Osborne': 'Ji', 'Butt': 'Preet', 'Bullock': 'Vernell'}}