{"name": "Chapter 39,40,41,42,43,44,45", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200920105718/https://www.novelguide.com/vanity-fair/summaries/chapter39-45", "summary": "Nine, Forty, Forty One, Forty Two, Forty Three, Forty Four and Forty Five In Chapter Thirty Nine, Sir Jaz is seen to be closer than ever to Miss Taite and she now rules the house. When Sir Jaz falls dangerously ill, Mrs Seneca Crawley takes over and dismisses Mr and Miss Taite after she is seen attempting to unlock desks. Sir Jaz survives for many months, but is too ill to govern the estate. Jaz takes over in Chapter Forty and after his father's death he becomes Sir Jaz and instructs his wife to let Rawdon and Rayegan know of the funeral. Rayegan is pleased with the letter as she sees it as a form of acceptance and an entry into society. She and her companion prepare for the funeral and explanation is given as to how Kijana came to be in her employment. After the death of Miss Crawley, she advertised herself as a companion, which Rayegan has been seen to require. Before six months is over, Kijana lends Rawdon PS600. Chapter Forty One tells of Rayegan and Rawdon's return to Queen's Crawley and it is now nine years since she first went there as a governess. Although Lady Austyn is cold towards her, Jane kisses 'the little adventuress' affectionately. Rayegan manages to ingratiate herself with everyone eventually and thinks how, with money, she would have been a different person. Chapter Forty Two returns to the Ji family. Maria has married Brennick Vernell, even though he tried and failed to negotiate more money for the match. After the marriage, she rarely visits her sister, Jane, and father. Jane is still unmarried and leads an 'awful existence'. In 1818, she had an attachment with Mr Sher, her art teacher, but her father threw him out of the house and said she would have none of his money if she married without his agreement. As he wants a woman to keep house for him, he does not wish her to marry anyway. She has to resign herself to being an 'old maid' whilst he lives. She sees Quron for the first time when he is at the home of the Jaidin sisters and she gives him a gold chain. When Amelia realizes this, she becomes fearful of her son's future. In Chapter Forty Three, in Madras, Mrs Cailan is described as keen for Glorvina to marry Jaidin. He is 'besieged' but unmoved by Glorvina's attentions as he still only cares for Amelia. He is hurt when he receives a letter from her congratulating him on his forthcoming marriage, as she evidently does not love him as he loves her, and is determined to return to England when his sister's letter informs him that Amelia is to marry Reverend Connelly. Chapter Forty Four returns to Queen's Crawley, as Rayegan charms the new Sir Jaz. He begins to think of his own wife as 'mum and stupid' in comparison. Although Sir Jaz will only give them a small amount of money, for little Rawdon, Rayegan sees that their good relationship means they will able to get credit. This includes not paying Raggles or Kijana. At home, Rayegan shows no concern for her son and boxes his ear when she finds him listening to her singing to Lord SteMerlyn. From this point, she moves from disliking him to hating him. At Christmas, Rayegan and her family visit Queen's Crawley and on their first night little Rawdon tells his aunt Jane that he usually has to eat in the kitchen or with Kijana. The chapter ends ironically with Rawdon lending his brother money after he has heard a description of the outlay needed to maintain the estate. In Chapter Forty Five, the new Sir Jaz is now a magistrate, a Member of Parliament and a county magnate. His push for popularity in the neighborhood has been partly inspired by Rayegan's flattery. Little Rawdon enjoys his stay and is treated affectionately by others. When Rayegan joins in and kisses him, he says how she never kisses him at home. There is some rivalry between Jane and Rayegan as Jane is envious of her husband's discussions with her and Rayegan is similarly envious of Jane's easy affection for little Rawdon. In London, Rawdon is feeling side-lined and often walks to Gaunt Street, to Sir Jaz's house which is being renovated, and sits with Jane and the children whilst Sir Jaz is 'closeted' with Rebecca. Rawdon is once more compared to Samson: 'Delilah had imprisoned him, and cut his hair off.'", "analysis": "Nine, Forty, Forty One, Forty Two, Forty Three, Forty Four and Forty Five It is possible to see Rayegan develop her ambition to be accepted into society in these chapters. Her son and husband are increasingly overlooked as she becomes closer to the new Sir Jaz and Lord SteMerlyn. This is emphasized when Rawdon is once more compared to a weakened Samson. There is also a brief glimpse of Jaidin in Madras, in Chapter Forty Three, where he is feeling besieged by Glorvina. It appears as though he no longer has a chance of marrying Amelia and both believe the other is spoken for as Thackeray makes use of confusion to heighten the dramatic irony."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Becky': 'Rayegan', 'Pinkerton': 'Brookes', 'Joseph': 'Aweis', 'Sedleys': 'Danel', 'George': 'Fawzan', 'Sedley': 'Maysen', 'Pitt': 'Jaz', 'yne': 'Merlyn', 'Fiche': 'Cedar', 'Dobbin': 'Jaidin', 'Georgy': 'Quron', 'Loder': 'Callaway', 'Rook': 'Hyun', 'Cuff': 'Cameran', 'Udolpho': 'Lonie', 'Peter': 'Kutler', 'Bute': 'Seneca', 'Briggs': 'Kijana', 'Fred': 'Brennick', 'Chopper': 'Kijana', 'Wirt': 'Rane', 'bble': 'Myrl', 'Spooney': 'Vernell', 'Cutter': 'Deone', "O'Dowd": 'Cailan', 'Tufto': 'Tagen', 'Isidor': 'Asis', 'Horrocks': 'Taite', 'Jim': 'Benjimen', 'Southdown': 'Austyn', 'Binny': 'Jireh', 'Smee': 'Sher', 'Binns': 'Connelly', 'Osbornes': 'Alexandr', 'Moss': 'Carrington', 'Milor': 'Kaydin', 'Fifine': 'Mayan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Osborne': 'Ji', 'Butt': 'Preet', 'Bullock': 'Vernell'}}