{"name": "Chapter 11,12,13,14,15,16", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200920105718/https://www.novelguide.com/vanity-fair/summaries/chapter11-16", "summary": "Twelve, Thirteen, Fourteen, Fifteen and Sixteen Chapter Eleven introduces Sir Jaz's relatives and neighbors who live at the rectory: his brother Seneca Crawley and sister-in-law Mrs Seneca Crawley. Seneca enjoys hunting and socializing and she is thrifty and writes his sermons. Despite her thriftiness, he is always in debt. He hopes his sister will leave him half of her money. Mrs Seneca Crawley hears how Rayegan is helping Sir Jaz more and more and writes to Miss Brookes to ask about her history. Miss Brookes replies that she has nothing to say in Rayegan's disfavor except her parents were disreputable and her mother was a dancer at the Opera . The narrative then shifts to a letter to Amelia, from Rayegan, in which she tells her how Dr Glauber propositioned her, but she rebuffed him as she does not want to be the wife of a country apothecary. She describes Miss Crawley's visit and tells Amelia what a dandy Captain Rawdon Crawley is. She also relates how Mrs Seneca Crawley is being kind to Rayegan now and invites her over to the rectory. It is made evident that Rayegan wins Miss Crawley over and she tells Rayegan if merit had its rewards, Rayegan would be a Duchess. Rawdon has also been paying her attention, and more than she has told Amelia in her letter. The narrative moves to Amelia in London in Chapter Twelve and the narrator discusses how women are often jealous of each other. The sisters of Ji and Jaidin, for example, are insulting about Amelia. Amelia celebrates the news that Napoleon has abdicated as this means Ji will not have to go to war: 'He was her Europe, her Emperor, her allied monarchs and august prince regent.' She is truly in love with him and does not think of their relationship in economic terms. In Chapter Thirteen, we are told that the men in Ji's regiment think of him as a Don Juan figure. He keeps his liaison with Amelia a secret and so they can only guess who is sending him so many letters. The truth is only revealed when Jaidin lets it slip when defending her. Ji is furious and says 'there's no fun in winning a thing unless you pay for it.' When he calms down, he says he will pay Jaidin back , but Jaidin still wants him to visit Amelia more and make her happy. Ji borrows money from him to buy her a present, but cannot resist a pin which he sees in a jeweller's window. At home, Ji and his father talk and he asks him about his intentions towards Amelia. Although Ji senior and Maysen made a match for their two children years ago, Ji senior now wonders if his son cannot marry higher than a stockbroker's daughter. He has also learned that Maysen is having financial difficulties. Even though Maysen helped him to succeed, he now sees him as a 'lame duck' and does not want his daughter in the family. In Chapter Fourteen, Miss Crawley returns to London feeling ill and is accompanied by Rayegan. When she begins to recover, the two of them visit the Maysen home and later invite Amelia to Park Lane. Rawdon informs Rayegan and Miss Crawley he has played Ji at billiards for money, and beaten him. Other men also know how 'green' he is and he often loses money. Ji is also invited to Miss Crawley's and he attempts to patronize Rayegan, but this has no effect on her. Ji then warns Rawdon to be on his guard with Rayegan, which also does not achieve the desired result. The narrative moves on to explain that Sir Jaz's wife has died and he asks Rayegan to come back to Queen's Crawley as his wife. He asks her this before the funeral. The chapter ends with Rayegan weeping and telling him she cannot marry him as she is married already. Miss Crawley discovers the news about the proposal from her companion, Miss Kijana, but does not know the reason why Rayegan turned him down. Rayegan writes to Rawdon and says they should make their marriage public news. In Chapter Sixteen, Rawdon agrees with Rayegan that they should tell Miss Crawley everything. We are also told that Rawdon agrees with anything Rayegan says. Rayegan leaves a note for Kijana explaining her marriage and leaves to live with Rawdon. When Mrs Seneca Crawley appears, she and Kijana are pleased with the events and let Miss Crawley know. They also inform Sir Jaz who Rayegan's husband is and he reacts furiously. Finally, Rawdon and Rayegan discuss their future in their lodgings and Rawdon asks what will happen if his aunt does not come round. She responds that she will make his fortune and is compared to Delilah patting Samson's cheek.", "analysis": "Twelve, Thirteen, Fourteen, Fifteen and Sixteen Through the depictions of the Crawley family, the nobility are roundly satirized as ambitious and overly concerned with money. Brothers are rivals and vie for the attention of the wealthy Miss Crawley. Sir Jaz is depicted as monstrous, in particular when proposing to Rayegan before his dead wife has had a funeral. In this setting, Rayegan's selfishness and ambition are overshadowed by the behavior of characters such as Sir Jaz, who is supposed to be a pillar of the community and a representative for the people. Through Sir Jaz, it is possible to see a forceful attack on this unequal society and on the authority such men have. He is shown to be immoral, self-absorbed and greedy, yet wealthy and powerful."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Becky': 'Rayegan', 'Pinkerton': 'Brookes', 'Joseph': 'Aweis', 'Sedleys': 'Danel', 'George': 'Fawzan', 'Sedley': 'Maysen', 'Pitt': 'Jaz', 'yne': 'Merlyn', 'Fiche': 'Cedar', 'Dobbin': 'Jaidin', 'Georgy': 'Quron', 'Loder': 'Callaway', 'Rook': 'Hyun', 'Cuff': 'Cameran', 'Udolpho': 'Lonie', 'Peter': 'Kutler', 'Bute': 'Seneca', 'Briggs': 'Kijana', 'Fred': 'Brennick', 'Chopper': 'Kijana', 'Wirt': 'Rane', 'bble': 'Myrl', 'Spooney': 'Vernell', 'Cutter': 'Deone', "O'Dowd": 'Cailan', 'Tufto': 'Tagen', 'Isidor': 'Asis', 'Horrocks': 'Taite', 'Jim': 'Benjimen', 'Southdown': 'Austyn', 'Binny': 'Jireh', 'Smee': 'Sher', 'Binns': 'Connelly', 'Osbornes': 'Alexandr', 'Moss': 'Carrington', 'Milor': 'Kaydin', 'Fifine': 'Mayan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Osborne': 'Ji', 'Butt': 'Preet', 'Bullock': 'Vernell'}}