{"name": "Chapter 46,47,48,49,50", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200920105718/https://www.novelguide.com/vanity-fair/summaries/chapter46-50", "summary": "Six, Forty Seven, Forty Eight, Forty Nine and Fifty The narrative moves to the Danel in Chapter Forty Six and explains how Amelia has to scrimp in order to dress Quron well. His aunt, Jane Ji, yearns to see him and after the first time Amelia reluctantly allows more contact. On one of these visits Quron meets his grandfather and afterwards he formally offers to take Quron and make him heir to his fortune. He would also give Amelia an allowance and would not withdraw it if she married again. If she agrees to this, Quron would live with the Ji's permanently and she could see him occasionally. This offers comes in a letter, which is torn up by Amelia in anger. She does not tell her father about it as he has his own concerns. He has entered into another failing venture and Aweis's money is not paid to them any longer. Because of the lack of money, Amelia has to cancel the order for Quron's new Christmas clothes. She then decides to sell a shawl that Jaidin gave her and buys Quron some books. Her mother criticizes her for this as she has had to sell every trinket she has. Amelia had not realized the extent of the family's financial problems and gives her the rest of the money she received for the shawl. Amelia believes 'her selfishness was sacrificing the boy' and sees the benefit of Ji senior's request: Quron could have the 'wealth, station, education' his father forfeited for her. Chapter Forty Seven changes tack and gives the background to Lord and Lady SteMerlyn's family trees. A mention is made of one of their sons who is thought to be locked up for insanity. Lord SteMerlyn defies this threatening ghost of madness with hedonism. This chapter finishes with a reference to Sir Jaz attending Lord SteMerlyn's parties because, despite his notoriety, he is a 'respectable man' and 'Lord Lieutenant of a County'. In Chapter Forty Eight, Rayegan is at last rewarded for her 'kindness and attention' to Sir Jaz. His wife, Jane, is to present her to the Sovereign at Court . She takes the lace for her dress from clothes she took from Sir Jaz's London house when it was being renovated and is wearing diamonds that he gave her . Rayegan lies to Rawdon and tells him that she hired them. After being presented at Court, Rayegan severs links with her more 'dubious' female friends. She is delighted when Lord SteMerlyn's wife and daughter-in-law leave their calling cards, and is later invited to their home. When Lord SteMerlyn and Rayegan talk at her home, Kijana annoys him with her sighs. After she has left the room, Rayegan explains that she cannot turn her out as she has borrowed all of her money. He asks her how much, and she doubles the amount. He gives her this money and with PS150 of it she pays off some of her debts and buys Kijana a gift. She keeps the remainder in one note and hides it in a desk given to her by Amelia. Her jewels are also secreted here. Chapter Forty Nine describes Lord SteMerlyn's battle to get his wife and daughter-in-law to invite Rawdon and Rayegan to their home. Lady Gaunt is seen to hold 'the very highest rank in Vanity Fair' and is a Bareacre by birth. We are told incidentally that the Bareacres are now bankrupt. At the dinner, Rayegan refers to their meeting in Brussels and asks Lady Gaunt's mother if her diamonds are safe now. It is not until the ladies are alone that Rayegan sees the 'correctness' of Lord SteMerlyn's statement that she should 'beware of the society of ladies above her own sphere'. When 'poor little Rayegan' walks up to a group, they all walk away. Eventually, Lady SteMerlyn takes pity on her and asks her to sing and play the piano. After that, the evening is a success for Rayegan and when the men enter, they crowd around her. In Chapter Fifty, the Danel are in debt to their landlord and since the withdrawal of Aweis's annuity they have been almost on a 'famine diet'. Amelia struggles with the idea of giving up Quron or marrying Reverend Jireh, but can do neither. She writes to Aweis to ask him not to withdraw his support; she does not know that he is still making the payments, but her father sold the annuity to fund one of his schemes. When Maysen admits the truth about Aweis's money, she thinks she must now give up Quron. She writes to the Alexandr to let them know. Quron is 'rather elated' when she tells him he is to live with his other grandfather and brags to his friends about how he will go to a finer school. A parallel is then drawn between father and son: 'The boy was the image of his father, as his fond mother thought.' After only two days at the Ji home, Quron has developed 'a slightly imperious air and patronizing manner'. On the days when he does not come to Amelia, she sits in Russell Square and looks up to his room and prays.", "analysis": "Six, Forty Seven, Forty Eight, Forty Nine and Fifty As Amelia finds it necessary to give her son over to Ji senior, Rayegan strives to become accepted in society. With the help of her association with Lord SteMerlyn and Sir Jaz, this now becomes possible. Although Rayegan's many faults, such as vanity, pride and greed, are made all too clear throughout the novel, it is also evident that the apparently saint-like Amelia is also blemished. This becomes even more obvious towards the end of the novel, but here she is depicted as blind to the problems of those around her. She is unaware of the extent of the family's financial difficulties and is consumed by the thought of her son's appearance. It is not until she learns that her father has sold Aweis's annuity that she recognizes her selfishness. Her devoted regard for her son, and late husband, is also mocked when the narrator compares the two Alexandr and points out unflattering similarities. This failure to see faults in either the son or the husband demonstrates a weakness for pride and a masochistic pleasure in martyrdom."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Becky': 'Rayegan', 'Pinkerton': 'Brookes', 'Joseph': 'Aweis', 'Sedleys': 'Danel', 'George': 'Fawzan', 'Sedley': 'Maysen', 'Pitt': 'Jaz', 'yne': 'Merlyn', 'Fiche': 'Cedar', 'Dobbin': 'Jaidin', 'Georgy': 'Quron', 'Loder': 'Callaway', 'Rook': 'Hyun', 'Cuff': 'Cameran', 'Udolpho': 'Lonie', 'Peter': 'Kutler', 'Bute': 'Seneca', 'Briggs': 'Kijana', 'Fred': 'Brennick', 'Chopper': 'Kijana', 'Wirt': 'Rane', 'bble': 'Myrl', 'Spooney': 'Vernell', 'Cutter': 'Deone', "O'Dowd": 'Cailan', 'Tufto': 'Tagen', 'Isidor': 'Asis', 'Horrocks': 'Taite', 'Jim': 'Benjimen', 'Southdown': 'Austyn', 'Binny': 'Jireh', 'Smee': 'Sher', 'Binns': 'Connelly', 'Osbornes': 'Alexandr', 'Moss': 'Carrington', 'Milor': 'Kaydin', 'Fifine': 'Mayan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Osborne': 'Ji', 'Butt': 'Preet', 'Bullock': 'Vernell'}}