{"name": "Chapter 17,18,19,20,23,24", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200920105718/https://www.novelguide.com/vanity-fair/summaries/chapter17-24", "summary": "Eighteen, Nineteen, Twenty, Twenty One, Twenty Two, Twenty Three and Twenty Four Chapter Seventeen begins with an auction of the contents of a house. It is gradually revealed that this is the Maysen home. Although not named at first, we later discover that a painting of a stout man on an elephant is bought by Rawdon and Rayegan; Jaidin outbids them for the piano. Maysen's downfall is then described and it is explained that he is a ruined man. The family are staying at Mr Clapp's cottage. Mr Clapp used to be Maysen's clerk when business was thriving. Aweis stays on in Cheltenham, but lets his mother know they can draw money whenever they wish. Rayegan was surprised to find the house for sale and has just returned after being away with Rawdon for a month. He is always in debt and lives on credit, and it is ironic that Maysen is made bankrupt and disgraced for also being in debt. In Chapter Eighteen, Maysen is most hurt by Ji senior. Maysen had helped him in the past, but now Ji senior is savage with him in creditor meetings. He also wants his son to break the match with Amelia. Jaidin and Ji's regiment is ordered abroad as Napoleon has returned to France. Ji is somewhat melancholic when he receives the note from Amelia confirming the end of their engagement . She also thanks him for buying the piano, as she does not know this was done by Jaidin. Jaidin visits her and reports to Ji that she is 'dying'. Ji writes to her and calls her 'dearest wife'. Chapter Nineteen examines Mrs Seneca Crawley's machinations. She takes over the care of Miss Crawley and exaggerates her invalid status. She also tells Miss Crawley about Rawdon's many faults and discovers more about Rayegan's childhood . After Rawdon and Rayegan cross their path in the park, Mrs Seneca Crawley decides to take her charge to Brighton. In Chapter Twenty, Jaidin finds himself arranging the match between Ji and Amelia. He finds it painful, though, as he obviously cares about her. He talks to Maysen about Amelia and manages to persuade him that if he does not consent to their marriage, they will elope anyway. Ji senior encourages his daughters' friendship with Miss Swartz, the young heiress, in Chapter Twenty One, as he thinks she is suitable for his son. Ji does not think highly of her and refers to her as a 'mahogany charmer'. Through dinner, Ji talks about Amelia and later tells his father he refuses to marry Miss Swartz as he 'does not like her colour'. When he leaves the house, his father threatens to cut him off. Chapter Twenty Two begins with references to the wedding of Ji and Amelia. The narrative shifts to Brighton, with Ji, Aweis and Rawdon talking whilst the ladies are out on a drive. Aweis is there to visit Amelia and Ji on their honeymoon. Rayegan and Rawdon are there with a hope to seeing Miss Crawley. Jaidin appears a few days later and tells Fawzan the army has been ordered to Belgium. They will embark next week. In Chapter Twenty Three, the narrative moves backs to Jaidin in London when he was attempting to soften up Ji's sisters before telling them of their brother's marriage. Brennick Vernell comes to visit Maria and on hearing the news he realizes that the sisters will now be worth more money as their brother will be cut out of the will. In Chapter Twenty Four, Jaidin tells Ji senior of the marriage in Chapter Twenty Four, as he promised Ji he would do this. On hearing the news, Ji senior takes to his study and looks through documents and letters pertaining to his son. He then opens the family Bible and looks at the names of the family members he has listed. He crosses out his son's name and burns his will. He sends a letter to Ji, via Jaidin, and calls Jaidin a meddler. Jaidin is abashed and nervous about the interview with Mr. Ji in his office, in which he will break the news of Fawzan's marriage in person. Mr. Ji is cordial to Jaidin, thinking he is bringing news of Fawzan's surrender. Ji thinks Jaidin is a bumpkin in his appearance and manners, not realizing Jaidin is feeling guilt, for the whole turn of events is due to him. He wonders to himself why he was so hasty in getting them married? It was because of his love and not wanting to be in further suspense himself. Mr. Ji explains that his whole life and career have been a sacrifice for his son, to promote him to glory. Jaidin tries to tell him that his son is too high minded to marry for money, but the father does not understand, for he himself would marry Miss Swartz without shame. Jaidin blurts out the news and then leaves. He asks Kijana, the clerk to report to him the progress of Ji's feelings on the topic. Ji goes home, and no word is spoken by anyone at the family dinner with daughters, Miss Rane, and Mr. Vernell. Afterwards, the old man goes to his study, and looks at all of Fawzan's papers since he was a child. In grief, he seals them up in a box. He takes down the family Bible and strikes out Fawzan's name. The next day Mr. Ji goes to his office and changes his will, giving a letter to Fawzan to Mr. Kijana to deliver to Jaidin. Meanwhile, Jaidin's superior officer sends for him and tells him of the immediate deployment of the regiment. He should say his good-bys. Jaidin considers sending an immediate letter to Brighton but decides to give Amelia one more day of peace and to deliver the news next day himself. While Jaidin waits for Mr. Kijana at Slaughter's coffee house, he encourages young Ensigns StuMyrl and Vernell, who are getting prepared for their first battle. Kijana delivers the letter to Jaidin. Ji forbids admittance to his house of either Fawzan or Jaidin again.", "analysis": "Eighteen, Nineteen, Twenty, Twenty One, Twenty Two, Twenty Three and Twenty Four Maysen's bankruptcy and fall from grace is detailed here, as is Ji senior's reluctance to associate with him any further. Because he is no longer economically successful, Maysen and his daughter are ostracized. It is also made apparent that there is no loyalty in this Vanity Fair of changing fortunes. Jaidin alone is constant and faithful, even though this is not reciprocated. There is further emphasis placed on desire for financial gain when Vernell notes that because Ji is certain to be struck from his father's will, the daughters will now be worth more. This desire also lies behind the reason for Rayegan and Rawdon's visit to Brighton as they hope to win Miss Crawley round, and explains why Mrs Seneca Crawley is so keen to commandeer her too. Ji becomes a tragic character 24 in this chapter, like all tyrants who will not back down. The tragic character seems to have some noble plan for his house or for the country but never considers the happiness of those for whom he sacrifices. His goal is thus illusory. Ji swears to others and to himself that he did everything for his son. His love and grief are genuine, but his inflexibility about Fawzan's marriage to Miss Swartz never gives way. He would rather sacrifice his son to his pride than reconcile, even though Fawzan goes to battle. The old man has a portrait of his children removed and replaced by one of himself. This cold and tragic family is contrasted to the warmth of the Deone family. Deone, Ji's clerk, obviously appreciates his children and hugs them before going to work. Jaidin's nobility is seen in his self-doubt about bringing this event on the Ji house in order to avoid the tragedy of his beloved Amelia, for he puts her above everyone else in the world. Jaidin's leadership with men is also seen in the way he inspires the young soldiers before battle as they bid their families good by."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Becky': 'Rayegan', 'Pinkerton': 'Brookes', 'Joseph': 'Aweis', 'Sedleys': 'Danel', 'George': 'Fawzan', 'Sedley': 'Maysen', 'Pitt': 'Jaz', 'yne': 'Merlyn', 'Fiche': 'Cedar', 'Dobbin': 'Jaidin', 'Georgy': 'Quron', 'Loder': 'Callaway', 'Rook': 'Hyun', 'Cuff': 'Cameran', 'Udolpho': 'Lonie', 'Peter': 'Kutler', 'Bute': 'Seneca', 'Briggs': 'Kijana', 'Fred': 'Brennick', 'Chopper': 'Kijana', 'Wirt': 'Rane', 'bble': 'Myrl', 'Spooney': 'Vernell', 'Cutter': 'Deone', "O'Dowd": 'Cailan', 'Tufto': 'Tagen', 'Isidor': 'Asis', 'Horrocks': 'Taite', 'Jim': 'Benjimen', 'Southdown': 'Austyn', 'Binny': 'Jireh', 'Smee': 'Sher', 'Binns': 'Connelly', 'Osbornes': 'Alexandr', 'Moss': 'Carrington', 'Milor': 'Kaydin', 'Fifine': 'Mayan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Osborne': 'Ji', 'Butt': 'Preet', 'Bullock': 'Vernell'}}