{"name": "Chapter 64,65,66,67", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200920105718/https://www.novelguide.com/vanity-fair/summaries/chapter64-67", "summary": "Four, Sixty Five, Sixty Six and Sixty Seven Chapter Sixty Four gives some information as to what has happened to Rayegan after she left London. At the time of her separation from Rawdon, it is seen as being in everyone's interests that she leaves the country. She writes to her son once and then nothing for a year. She then writes 'the most affectionate composition' to him after learning of the death of Sir Jaz's only boy . Rayegan first goes to Boulogne after leaving England. Former acquaintances treat with either little or no respect and others try to patronize her. She attends church and sings the loudest, but is discovered lying about her affection for her son when Mr Wenham travels through the town. This happens several times as her reputation comes to light at each place she moves to. She moves to Brussels and leaves owing money and visits Rome. Here, she sees Lord SteMerlyn at a ball and he looks aghast and then ignores her when she presents herself to him. Whilst out walking the next day, she is approached by Mr Cedar . He advises her to leave Rome immediately or she will get ill and die. She attempts to laugh at the threat, but he tells her 'we know everything, and have friends everywhere'. She has offended Lord SteMerlyn and he never forgives. She heeds the warning and leaves. In Chapter Sixty Five, the narrative returns to the present as Aweis comes to see Rayegan in the room she rents. She tells him what has happened and describes herself as an angel and a martyr. He thinks of ways to help her and when he has gone she mimics him in front of her neighbors. Aweis tells Amelia and Jaidin about Rayegan and although disconcerted about her presence, Jaidin agrees to abide by whatever Amelia decides in her bid to help her. Amelia softens towards Rayegan's plight when Aweis tells her that her son was torn from her. Fortunately for Rayegan, she sees Jaidin and Amelia coming to visit her and has time to ask her neighbors to leave. Amelia expresses her empathy for the loss of little Rawdon, in Chapter Sixty Six, and Rayegan finds she has to lie straightaway. She gets her son's age wrong, but Amelia disregards this. She tells Rayegan 'a full and complete version of her history' in which she blames Rawdon for everything. Whilst the two women talk, Jaidin sits downstairs and hears Rayegan's neighbors discuss her as they refer to her gambling and drinking. He realizes that she has not altered. Amelia is in high spirits after talking with Rayegan and says she wants her to stay with them. Jaidin is annoyed and reminds her she has not always been a friend. Amelia leaves the room upset and thinks again that her jealousy had been groundless and her husband was pure. Jaidin then tries to persuade Aweis to stay away from Rayegan, but is accused of meddling. At dinner, after Rayegan's arrival, Quron recognizes her from when she was gambling . She asks him to keep that a secret and he does. Jaidin has dinner with Tapeworm, who, after prompting, tells Jaidin all about Rayegan. Amelia will not see him until the next afternoon and then he has to speak and hint of what he knows in front of Rayegan. Amelia is still angry with him, but agrees to speak alone with him. He says goodbye to her and breaks the chain between them as he 'declared his independence and superiority.' Rayegan eavesdrops on their conversation and sees Jaidin has a noble heart . Rayegan writes him a note, which beseeches him to stay as she will be able to 'serve him with A'. Later, as they see Jaidin packing to leave, Quron defies his mother and Aweis and rushes down to him. Quron gives Jaidin the note from Rayegan; he initially looks pleased, but then tears it up when he sees who it is from. Quron is inconsolable at his departure. In the final chapter, Rayegan wins everyone round and keeps referring to Jaidin in Amelia's presence. When her boxes finally arrive, she puts up the portrait of Aweis on an elephant which she bought years ago. This flatters him, of course, especially as Rayegan insists she saved it all of this time out of affection for him. The group then travel to Ostend and Rayegan decides Amelia should marry Jaidin. This is highlighted when she sees how vulnerable Amelia is in the company of crude men such as Major Callaway and Captain Hyun. When Amelia says she will not marry again as she is unable to forget her husband, Rayegan is brutally honest and calls Ji 'that selfish humbug, that low-bred cockney dandy'. She also reveals that Ji would have jilted her except Jaidin forced him to keep his word. After also informing her that Ji sneered at her behind her back, she shows her the note he gave her in her bouquet. It says that he wants to run away with Rayegan. Rayegan soothes Amelia, and Amelia does not cry as much as might have been expected. Rayegan tells her to write to Jaidin and Amelia admits that she has already done so that morning. The novel ends with Jaidin coming from England and they finally marry. He gives up his army service and they rent a home near Queen's Crawley. Amelia and Jane become close and she is asked to be the godmother to Amelia and Jaidin's child. Little Rawdon and Quron also become friends. Aweis stays in Rayegan's company and they go to live in Brussels in separate rooms. Jaidin comes to help him when his lawyer gives Jaidin the news that he is infirm and his life is heavily insured. Aweis is afraid of Rayegan, but stays with her. He dies three months later and Rayegan is eventually paid out on the insurance. After the death of Rawdon and Sir Jaz, little Rawdon inherits Queen's Crawley and Rayegan frequents Bath and Cheltenham and performs charitable work. Finally, the narrator asks which of us 'is happy in this world? Which of us has his desire?'", "analysis": "Four, Sixty Five, Sixty Six and Sixty Seven As the novel is brought to a close, the ends are tied up rather neatly. There is some redemption offered for Rayegan as she plays a part in bringing Jaidin and Amelia together, although Amelia had already written to him before Rayegan's revelations. There are strong suggestions that Rayegan has also killed Aweis, however, which tells the reader this 'little adventuress' is as greedy for money as she was at the beginning of the novel. This is, after all, a novel without a hero and Rayegan's continued moral ambivalence maintains its realistic edge. The references to her charitable work in later life may be interpreted as implausible or self-serving ."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Becky': 'Rayegan', 'Pinkerton': 'Brookes', 'Joseph': 'Aweis', 'Sedleys': 'Danel', 'George': 'Fawzan', 'Sedley': 'Maysen', 'Pitt': 'Jaz', 'yne': 'Merlyn', 'Fiche': 'Cedar', 'Dobbin': 'Jaidin', 'Georgy': 'Quron', 'Loder': 'Callaway', 'Rook': 'Hyun', 'Cuff': 'Cameran', 'Udolpho': 'Lonie', 'Peter': 'Kutler', 'Bute': 'Seneca', 'Briggs': 'Kijana', 'Fred': 'Brennick', 'Chopper': 'Kijana', 'Wirt': 'Rane', 'bble': 'Myrl', 'Spooney': 'Vernell', 'Cutter': 'Deone', "O'Dowd": 'Cailan', 'Tufto': 'Tagen', 'Isidor': 'Asis', 'Horrocks': 'Taite', 'Jim': 'Benjimen', 'Southdown': 'Austyn', 'Binny': 'Jireh', 'Smee': 'Sher', 'Binns': 'Connelly', 'Osbornes': 'Alexandr', 'Moss': 'Carrington', 'Milor': 'Kaydin', 'Fifine': 'Mayan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Osborne': 'Ji', 'Butt': 'Preet', 'Bullock': 'Vernell'}}