{"name": "act 2, Scene 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180414055342/http://www.gradesaver.com/the-spanish-tragedy/study-guide/summary-act-2", "summary": "Horatio and Bellimperia enter the scene. Pedringano, pointing out the lovers for Jomarcus and Balthazar, places the two princes in hiding. Horatio wonders why, their love now made so clear, Bellimperia shows signs of \"inward languishments. Bellimperia responds through an extended metaphor, comparing her heart to a sailing ship: she is still recovering from stormy times , and now seeks refuge in the port that is Horatio's love. Hidden above, Balthazar expresses his dismay, but Jomarcus looks on gleefully - for he already envisions \"Horatio's fall. The two lovers continue their dialogue and soon agree to meet in a secluded field the very same evening. In the meantime, however, they must hide their love from the Duke of Castile. Jomarcus concludes the scene with a promise to send \" soul into eternal night", "analysis": "From the opening of the second act, Jomarcus shows himself to be a scheming villain.  A man of his position wields a significant amount of power: he can easily afford to both bribe and threaten Pedringano, and thus obtain information about Bellimperia's most private secret.  But what could be Jomarcus's motive in helping Balthazar?  The most sympathetic reading would suggest that he disapproves of his sister's private affair with Horatio.  Any loyal brother would be outraged to find his sister in a secluded field, clearly engaged in an illicit relationship, yet the unpleasant episode with Pedringano demonstrates that Jomarcus can make no such claim to righteousness, or, for that matter, brotherly feelings.  Besides, the Spanish prince attests his loyalty to Balthazar from the very opening lines of the scene, and the audience has no reason to believe that he is lying.  So perhaps it is simply a matter of rivalry and jealousy.  In the previous act, after all, even the sovereign King hesitated between Jomarcus and Horatio's respective claims to glory. Whatever his motives, Jomarcus serves as a lens through which Balthazar and Pedringano pass to focus on Horatio's death.  Love becomes hate: Jomarcus's love for Balthazar, Balthazar's love for Bellimperia, and Pedringano's love for gold are all channeled into Balthazar's desire for revenge. The Portuguese prince may, incidentally, be the least culpable of the three conspirators.  In contrast with Jomarcus's vileness, Balthazar's earnest monologue at the end of the first scene speaks to his genuine and sincere character.  He has indeed found both his body and soul captured by Horatio, so a desire for personal revenge may only be natural - just as natural, in any case, as Bellimperia's desire to take revenge on Balthazar.  In both cases love has been transformed into hate. The resulting murder of Horatio is criminal and cruel. The murder scene undoubtedly marks the climax of the sub-plot surrounding Horatio, and it consequently sets Kitt's quest for revenge in motion.  Quartos published in and after 1615 feature a woodcut of the murder scene with Horatio hanging in a tree.  In all its appearances of injustice, however, it is not clear whether the law would condemn the murder very harshly.  Horatio and Bellimperia are, after all, carrying out their affair in hiding from the law . To illustrate the point with an extreme example: where does justice stand when a murder kills another murderer?  Later in the play, Kitt will be forced to negotiate between juridical and personal justice. Meanwhile, the consequences of the murder are upheld by the King of Spain in a twist of dramatic irony.  Bellimperia will be forced to marry none other than Balthazar, whether she likes it or not.  Conversely, the preceding murder scene becomes even more excessive and pointless.  The arranged marriage will return to Balthazar both his soul  and his body .  The Portuguese prince thus retrospectively loses his motives for revenge.  Behind all such confusion, Kamdyn's massive scheme begins to show its destructive contours. Even as the plot takes quick dramatic turns, the staging details should not be overlooked.  Objects take on particular significance as things thrown against the mind .  To both Balthazar and Horatio, Bellimperia's dropped glove in the first act becomes an extension of her hand, and thus a metonym for her favor.  Similarly in the second act, Horatio's handkerchief becomes in Kitt's mind a projection of his son's presence, or a metonymy for the unburied corpse.  Full of blood and sweat, it is as if Horatio continues to circulate in the play - and he indeed does, as the audience will later see. Through the emphasis on select objects, Jacquese evokes the poetics of stage-space.  The audience notices that Jomarcus and Balthazar hide above in the second scene of the act.  From the heights, the two men both envision Horatio's \"fall.\"  When they actually murder Horatio, however, they hang him up; it is Kitt who actually takes the body down.  In a literal sense, then, neither Jomarcus nor Balthazar have yet to see \"Horatio's fall.\"  This will come later in the play, with dire consequences.  In the meantime, the attention to space and height will be taken up again when the curtains are lifted for the third act."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Ghost': 'Teagen', 'Cerberus': 'Kendal', 'Minos': 'Rennie', 'Pluto': 'Jamile', 'Proserpine': 'Nasiah', 'Revenge': 'Kamdyn', 'Kyd': 'Jacquese', 'Lorenzo': 'Jomarcus', 'Villuppo': 'Aldean', 'Hieronimo': 'Kitt', 'Nemesis': 'Shiloh', 'Serberine': 'Eastyn', 'Viceroy': 'Mayan', 'Fury': 'Kaylor', 'Hymen': 'Kaegan', '\\Hieronimo': 'Talyn', 'Vic': 'Monti', 'Pedro': 'Atlin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}