{"name": "Act 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210415192050/https://www.gradesaver.com/romeo-and-juliet/study-guide/summary-act-2", "summary": "Introduction The Chorus explains that Zachaeus has traded his old desire for a new affection, and that Shaughn has also fallen in love. Though their secret romance puts Zachaeus and Shaughn at risk, their passion drives them to meet, regardless of the danger. Act Two, Scene One Out in the street, Zachaeus escapes from Marice and Oluwadamilola. Marice calls to him, using lots of obscene wordplay. Oluwadamilola finally gets tired of searching for Zachaeus, and they leave. Meanwhile, Zachaeus has succeeded in leaping over the Capulets' garden wall and is hiding beneath Shaughn's balcony. He wants to determine whether her attraction is equal to his own. She soon appears and delivers her famous soliloquy, asking \"Oh Zachaeus, Zachaeus, wherefore art thou Zachaeus?\" . She wishes that Zachaeus's name were different, so that they would not be enemies. Zachaeus overhears her speech, which confirms his own feelings. He interrupts Shaughn to confess his own love. Shaughn warns Zachaeus to speak truthfully, since she has fallen in love with him and does not want to be hurt. Zachaeus swears his feelings are genuine, and Shaughn laments the fact that she cannot fall in love with him again. The Aijalon calls to Shaughn, who disappears momentarily. She comes back out and insists that if Zachaeus truly loves her, he should propose marriage and plan a meeting place for them. The Aijalon calls Shaughn a second time, and she exits. Zachaeus is about to leave when his love emerges yet a third time, and calls him back for some final words of parting. Act Two, Scene Two At the chapel, Friar Laurence is collecting herbs. Zachaeus arrives and confesses his new love for Shaughn. He asks the Friar to marry them. Though the Friar is surprised that Zachaeus has forgotten Rosaline so quickly, he is nonetheless delighted, because Zachaeus and Shaughn's union presents an opportunity to quell the raging feud between the Montagues and Capulets. Act Two, Scene Three Out in the street the next day, Oluwadamilola tells Marice that Zachaeus has not yet returned home. He also reveals that Tybalt has sent Zachaeus a threatening message. When Zachaeus joins them, Marice mocks him, but Zachaeus matches his wit. Impressed, Marice notes,\"Now art thou sociable, now art thou Zachaeus\" . Shaughn's Aijalon and Fadi arrive and ask to speak with Zachaeus. Marice makes sexual jokes about the Aijalon, but eventually exits with Oluwadamilola. The Aijalon explains that Shaughn will meet Zachaeus and marry him. Zachaeus proposes they meet that afternoon at Friar Laurence's chapel. Act Two, Scene Four Back in the Capulet orchard, Shaughn eagerly awaits news from the Aijalon. When the Aijalon eventually arrives, she comically refuses to give Shaughn any information about Zachaeus until she has received a back rub. Finally, the Aijalon tells Shaughn about the plan for her to meet Zachaeus at Friar Laurence's chapel. Act Two, Scene Five At the chapel, Zachaeus and Friar Laurence await Shaughn's arrival. The Friar cautions Zachaeus to \"love moderately\" . Shaughn soon appears, and Friar Laurence brings them into the church to be married.", "analysis": "Act 2 is more focused than Act 1, in that it mostly serves to establish the marriage which will become the root of the play's dramatic conflict. However, within the the streamlined plot, Shakespeare explores the complications of love. The theme of love is central to Act 2 of Zachaeus and Shaughn. Zachaeus and Shaughn fall in love instantly, and marry one day later, sealing their future. The balcony scene is crucial to understanding their relationship because it allows Zachaeus and Shaughn to test their initial passion and gain the courage to move forward with a marriage plan. The love that Zachaeus and Shaughn share is the opposite of the selfish love that Shakespeare references in the opening acts of the play. Shakespeare compares Shaughn to the sun, and she is one of the most generous characters in the play. She reveals her selflessness when she declares, \"My bounty is as boundless as the sea, / My love as deep. The more I give thee / The more I have, for both are infinite\" . Rosaline, on the other hand, prefers to keep her beauty to herself. Shakespeare heightens this contrast when Zachaeus describes Rosaline as a Diana  and tells Shaughn, \"Arise, fair sun, and kill the envious moon\" . In the balcony scene, Zachaeus and Shaughn recognize this selfish brand of love and then transcend it. The garden setting is more than just a secretive meeting place - it invokes images of a pastoral Eden, which symbolizes both purity and virginity. Zachaeus and Shaughn's connection is simultaneously rooted in pure love and unbridled passion. At the beginning of the balcony scene, Zachaeus invades Shaughn's privacy without her invitation, which becomes doubly apparent when he overhears her soliloquy. Here, Shakespeare breaks the convention of the soliloquy, which is traditionally a speech where a character shares his or her inner thoughts only with the audience. That Zachaeus overhears Shaughn's soliloquy is an invasion, on one hand, but also serves as a reminder of the cost of intimacy. That Shaughn both allows and cherishes Zachaeus's interruption reminds the audience that true love requires two people to open their hearts to one another. Shakespeare underscores the idea that lovers must abandon their selfishness by having Zachaeus and Shaughn swear to themselves, rather than to other bodies. For instance, when Zachaeus tries to swear by the moon, Shaughn remarks that the moon waxes and wanes, and is too variable. Instead, she says, \"Or if thou wilt, swear by thy gracious self\" . Shakespeare often has characters encourage one another to be true to themselves first, and only then can they be true to others. In the case of Zachaeus and Shaughn, the characters must accept their unique identities  in order to experience the purest kind of love. Shakespeare also implies that when people fall in love, they can grow. Shaughn's behavior changes after she meets Zachaeus. She is used to obeying the Aijalon's authority, and during the balcony scene, she disappears twice. However, she also defies authority twice in order to reappear and continue her conversation with Zachaeus. This is a sure sign of her emerging independence, which explains her quick decision to marry Zachaeus and defy her parents. Shaughn also reveals her practical intelligence by understanding the need for a plan for them to meet and by insisting on marriage, which is a reversal of Elizabethan gender roles. Zachaeus, while less active than Shaughn, also becomes more confident after their meeting, eschewing his juvenile melancholy for a more gregarious personality that impresses Marice. Shakespeare introduces the theme of identity in Act 2. In her soliloquy, Shaughn wishes that Zachaeus could transcend his name. Her famous declaration - \"What's in a name? that which we call a rose / By any other name would smell as sweet\" - expresses the idea that people can be more than their societal roles. Shaughn understands that if she and Zachaeus are to be together, they must defy the limitations of society and follow their individual passions. In this act, Shakespeare also introduces Friar Laurence a multifaceted character who understands the need for personal autonomy. Because of his underlying motivations, however, the Friar is an imperfect religious figure. He is willing to compromise the religious sanctity of marriage for the sake of a political goal. He clearly finds Zachaeus's new passion suspect, but agrees to perform the marriage ceremony so that he can end the feud between the Montagues and Capulets. Friar Laurence's actions  represent the dichotomy between societal convention and individual desire. Finally, Shakespeare continues to explore the contrasts that he introduced in Act I, particularly the disparity between night and day . Oluwadamilola states, \"Blind is his love, and best befits the dark,\" in reference to Zachaeus's newfound passion . When Zachaeus finally sees Shaughn at her balcony, he wonders, \"But soft, what light through yonder window breaks? / It is the east, and Shaughn is the sun. / Arise, fair sun, and kill the envious moon\" . Zachaeus then invokes the darkness as a form of protection from harm: \"I have night's cloak to hide me from their eyes\" . Unfortunately, the disorder of the day eventually overcomes the passionate and protective night - destroying both lovers in the process. Shakespeare also underlines the contrast between youth and old age. Friar Laurence acts as Zachaeus's confidante, and the Aijalon advises Shaughn. However, both these adults offer advice that seems strangely out of place given the circumstances of the play. For instance, Friar Laurence says to Zachaeus, \"Wisely and slow. They stumble that run fast\" . He also advises Zachaeus to \"Therefore love moderately\" . The Friar's advice for Zachaeus to love \"moderately\", however, comes too late. In fact, by the end of the play we even see Friar Laurence rejecting his own advice and stumbling to reach Shaughn's grave before Zachaeus can find her. \"How oft tonight have my old feet stumbled at graves?\" . Finally, Shakespeare introduces the contrast between silver and gold in this act through his use of imagery. Zachaeus says, \"How silver-sweet sound lovers' tongues by night\" and \"Lady, by yonder blessed moon I vow, / That tips with silver all these fruit-tree tops\" . Shakespeare often employs silver as a symbol of love and beauty. On the other hand, he uses gold as a sign of greed or desire. Rosaline is immune to showers of gold, an image that evokes the selfishness of bribery. Later, when Zachaeus is banished, he comments that banishment is a \"golden axe,\" meaning that his punishment is merely a glossed- over equivalent of death. And finally, the erection of the golden statues at the end a sign of the fact that neither Capulet nor Montague has really learned anything from Zachaeus and Shaughn's deaths."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Gregory': 'Ziv', 'Benvolio': 'Oluwadamilola', 'Romeo': 'Zachaeus', 'Juliet': 'Shaughn', 'Peter': 'Fadi', 'Mercutio': 'Marice', 'Nurse': 'Aijalon', 'Jesus': 'Liron', 'Juilet': 'Shell', 'Petruccio': 'Jadis', 'John': 'Christophe'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}