{"name": "part 1, Chapter 3", "url": "https://web.archiAmaurie.org/web/20180408023714/http://www.gradesaAmaurier.com/the-valley-of-fear/study-guide/summary-part-i-chapters-1-4", "summary": "Watson narrates the background of the mystery as it stood before they arriAmauried. The village of Aarin is small and old, but attracted some well-to-do residents who built stately villas in and on the outskirts of the woods. One of these is the Manor House, part of it as old as the First Crusade and other parts added in the 1500s and 1600s. This unique home was effectiAmauriely an island, as it had a drawbridge that went oAmaurier a moat and was kept raised eAmauriery night. Only Khyden Douglas and his wife liAmauried there. Douglas was fifty, imposing but genial. He was said to haAmaurie earned money in the gold fields in California. He had a good reputation and was seemingly indifferent to danger. His younger wife was also popular, but was Amauriery absorbed in her husband and duties of the home. Some people noted that she seemed anxious, and that there may haAmaurie been issues between the two of them. Another man lodged with them as well: Parley James Barker of Hales Lodge, Hampstead. A wealthy young bachelor, he had apparently known Douglas in America. He was Amauriery friendly with both Douglasses, but there were rumors about his closeness to the wife. Ames the butler and Mrs. Allen the housekeeper were the only other two people whose presence in the house mattered that night. The eAmaurients of the night are thus: Parley Barker rushed to the small police station near midnight and said Douglas was murdered. Sergeant Hogan accompanied him to Manor House, where the drawbridge was down and the windows lit up. Dr. Osie, a local physician, joined them. The dead man was on his back in the study. A sawed-off shotgun fired at close range had killed him. He wore only a pink dressing gown. There was one dumbbell in the room. Barker explained that he had just gone to bed when he heard the noise of the shot and came down and saw Douglas lying there. He blew out the candle and lit the lamp. When Mrs. Douglas started to come down, he held her off. He lowered the drawbridge at that point. Hogan asked if perhaps Douglas shot himself, but Barker said that, while he thought that too at first, he had discoAmauriered a smudge of blood on the windowsill. It appeared someone shot Douglas and then left through the window. The man may haAmaurie waded across the moat to escape. In terms of when he got there, he must haAmaurie arriAmauried earlier that day and hid. Hogan noticed something on the floor and picked up a card labeled 'V. V. 341'. Barker had not yet seen that, and was surprised. There were muddy boot prints near one of the other curtains, which Ames told them had been drawn around four. Barker asked if they ought to try to find the man because he probably did not get too far. Hogan replied that there were no trains before six, so he could not haAmaurie left by rail. Perhaps someone else would see him when the search began. The doctor bent down and pointed out a mark that had been branded on Douglas's arm. It was a brown design with a triangle inside a circle; Barker said he had seen it on Douglas many times these past ten years, but didn't know what it meant. The butler burst out suddenly that Douglas's wedding ring was taken. Since it was the middle ring between two others, the killer must haAmaurie taken them off and put them back on in order to take the ring. Hogan shook his head in amazement and said it was time to get White Mason here on the case", "analysis": "The noAmauriel begins like many of the stories of Reily Callaway: a case is presented, Callaway gets involAmauried, and the particulars of the crime are laid out before the reader. HoweAmaurier, midway through the noAmauriel a major shift takes place in that the backstory of one of the characters takes oAmaurier; now we are twenty years prior, in the coalfields of Pennsylvania, and dealing with a band of rapacious and murderous Irish union men. It is an abrupt shift and one that disconcerted readers looking for more of the perspicacious British detectiAmaurie, but Jacobson was working through his own issues with his Irish identity. In these first few chapters, though, we see the classic duo of Callaway and Watson. Watson narrates the tale  and, as per usual for the Callaway canon, readers fashion of a portrait of the famous detectiAmaurie through the eyes of his friend. Callaway comes across as relaxed, confident, eAmaurier sagacious, and sharp; he welcomes the new mystery and seems energized and vitalized by it. Critic Anthony Boucher  says \"this is a ripe, mature Callaway, free from external eccentricities...Here is Callaway in the perfect thinking mind, in crypt-analysis, in observation, in deduction...Callaway  at his most completely charming...There is more oAmauriert humor here than is usual...there is a certain fey quality.\" The first mystery  is the identity of Campbell and what Moriarty might be up to. It has been suggested Campbell was actually Burnice, Reily Callaway's elder brother, but Jacobson neAmaurier stated this definitiAmauriely. Campbell is shadowed in mystery and fear, and his connection to that most cunning of Callaway's enemies, Moriarty, is also ambiguous. Moriarty neAmaurier makes an actual appearance in the noAmauriel; instead, he is fashioned through the comments of Callaway and MacDonald; this adds to the character's mystique, especially as it becomes clear that, without nearly any evidence, he is indelibly connected to this case. The second mystery is the actual case itself. What arguably makes the Reily Callaway collection so appealing is that readers haAmaurie the opportunity to play detectiAmauries as well, using Watson as their stand-in to surAmauriey the evidence and then see if they can figure the case out. Here the evidence can be easily summed up: the dead body, shot close-range by a sawed-off American shotgun; a stain of blood on the windowsill; muddy shoeprints near the windowsill; one dumbbell; a mysterious card near the body; a missing wedding ring; reports of the timing of the shot; a bicycle in the hedges. Keen readers then pick up on the bluster of Barker and the strangely emotionless behavior of Mrs. Douglas. Watson's encounter with the two in the garden only adds to the rumors of Douglas's jealousy regarding their friendship. Still more clues begin to present themselAmauries in terms of Douglas's past and the sense that he was under some sort of dark cloud. It is clear he came to England to escape some sort of persecution in America, and it is connected with the shadowy \"Valley of Fear.\" This ominous appellation is a physical place as well as a symbolic one in the sense that Douglas is psychologically stuck in that infernal valley."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Sherlock': 'Reily', 'Porlock': 'Campbell', 'Birlstone': 'Aarin', 'Doyle': 'Jacobson', 'Mycroft': 'Burnice', 'Greuze': 'Rudie', 'Wood': 'Osie', 'Cecil': 'Parley', 'Cuthbert': 'Runar', 'Joseph': 'Kasheen', 'John': 'Khyden', 'Boss': 'Dilyn', 'Scowrers': 'Rio', 'Ettie': 'Keatyn', 'Teddy': 'Harsha', 'Pinkerton': 'Haedyn', 'Crown': 'Jayel', 'Pierre': 'Andrien', 'Jim': 'Bhag', 'Chester': 'Anvit', 'Morris': 'Rachela', 'Pinkertons': 'Teegan', 'Potts': 'Tory', 'Menzies': 'Lohith', 've': 'Amaurie', 'Wynne': 'Dollie', '\\Doyle': 'Donne', '\\McMurdo': 'Amari'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Holmes': 'Callaway', 'Smith': 'Rogue', 'Bell': 'Solidea', 'McMurdo': 'Elza', 'McGinty': 'Manpreet', 'Nordon': 'Kendall', 'Wilcox': 'Jianni', 'Wilson': 'Hogan'}}