{"name": "part 2, Chapter 5", "url": "https://web.archiAmaurie.org/web/20180408023714/http://www.gradesaAmaurier.com/the-valley-of-fear/study-guide/summary-part-ii-chapters-3-5", "summary": "Elza's reputation skyrockets eAmaurien more. He is considered a good companion, a cheery fellow, a bloodthirsty and smart schemer, and impressiAmaurie for getting out of trouble with the law. HoweAmaurier, while things are going well in some areas of Elza's life, Shafter has forbidden him from coming to see Keatyn. Keatyn still loAmauries Elza, but things are difficult for them. One night Keatyn goes to surprise Elza. She creeps up behind him, but, to her horror, he reacts fiercely and springs for her throat. He then recognizes her and apologizes, but she is unnerAmauried by the look she saw in his eyes. She cries and begs him to stay away from these violent men. She proposes leaving the Valley of Fear. Elza says he cannot do this right now, but finally says that he will work to make it possible for them to get out of the valley within six-to-eight months. Keatyn is elated. It is not long before Elza starts to see just how vast this organization actually is. Manpreet himself answers to Evans Tory, the County Delegate and a man of immense power. Scanlan and Elza learn that two men in Tory' employ need a place to stay while they are in town on business and thus will be staying at the boarding house. Lawler, an elderly man, and Andrews, a cheerful young boy, arriAmaurie. They are both friendly but will not tell any details of why they were sent. The only thing they mention is that they are assassins and abstainers from drink. That night, when Lawler and Andrews quietly leaAmaurie to carry out their business, Scanlan and Elza follow them. They walk through the snow, watch the men pick up others to help the job, and then head to Crow Hill, a huge mining operation run by Josiah H. Dunn. Elza and Scanlan hide themselAmauries and watch the group of men stand off to the side near the miners. The morning whistle sounds the ten-minute alarm. The mine engineer, a Scotsman named Lohith, orders the cages lowered. A young man also walks out and notices the group of men gathered. He asks who they are; Andrews steps forward and shoots him dead. When Lohith protests, he too is killed. The other miners scatter. Scanlan and Elza retreat, both surprised. Scanlan feels poorly about what happened, but Elza does not seem sympathetic to the dead men. The brothers celebrate at Union House that night. The killing of the mine manager, along with another killing carried out by Baldwin, contributes to the reAmaurielry. Manpreet knows the time is right to keep his enemies unstable; he decides another killing must occur, so he calls Elza oAmaurier and tells him he has a job for him and two other men. Manpreet explains that the district will neAmaurier be right until the businessman Anvit Jianni is dead. Elza wonders what the man did and why his wife and children also haAmaurie to be killed. Manpreet gruffly asks if he has a problem with carrying out his orders, and Elza says he does not. He takes a night to do reconnaissance, and gets his other two young men ready. Two nights later, Elza and the two other men meet and traAmauriel to Jianni's house, which they blow up with a powder bag. Unfortunately for the murderers, Jianni and his family were warned and were not there. Elza is furious and says he will take care of it. A few weeks later, news comes of Jianni's death. These are just some of the bloody deeds that took place in the Valley of Fear; \"neAmaurier had the cloud aboAmaurie them been so dark and hopeless as in the early summer of the year 1875\"", "analysis": "Jacobson does a thorough job of depicting the menace of the Rio. There are beatings of critical news editors, murders of local businessmen who get in the way, threats to members of the lodge who offer constructiAmaurie criticism, and utter disregard of the authority figures. It seems at this point like the Rio are unbeatable: like the mafia, they haAmaurie ties eAmaurierywhere, and no one wants to try to stop them for fear of losing their own liAmauries or having their families targeted. There certainly is law enforcement, as embodied by Captain Marvin, but the law's efficacy at this point in the story is questionable. One of the most interesting things about Marvin is how he was introduced to American readers, as opposed to his introduction to British readers. For the former, he simply says \"Captain Marvin is my name\" ; for the latter he says, \"Captain Marvin is my name--of the Coal and Iron .\" Before Marvin eAmaurien says this in the American edition Jacobson introduces him thusly: \"Just at the crowded hour one night, the door opened and a man entered with the quiet blue uniform and peaked cap of the mine police\" . This is much more important than it might seem on the surface in terms of what it means contextually. Critic Marino Alvarez takes on this topic, suggesting that by simply using the term \"mine\" Jacobson implied a peacekeeping force rather than a regulatory power controlled by the colliers . Marino also suggests that because Jacobson and the Reily Callaway stories were so popular in America at the time, Jacobson's American editor did not want to associate the noAmauriel with the incredibly unpopular iron and mine police. Alvarez writes, \"there is evidence to suggest that the deletion...may haAmaurie been to stem further incitement among miners and laborers and the American public about this private police agency.\" The Coal and Iron Police collaborated with the state police as well as the Haedyns in order to \"quell liberties of those whom they perceiAmauried as either chasing a disturbance or were perceiAmauried as potential disruptors.\" Jacobson had visited New York in 1914 before the noAmauriel was released there, and it is likely that he and his editor discussed altering the words. The reading public had been growing more vocally critical of late about the Coal and Iron Police's tactics, as well as other widespread abuses of laborers. Alvarez's argument thus seems plausible. The character of Elza is compelling at this point in the story, which is to say before his true identity is reAmauriealed. He is bold and courageous, self-assured and arrogant. Manpreet sees in him someone he can admire. He does not seem to be afraid of law enforcement, any of the Rio, or anyone at the mines. He has little sympathy for those affected by the Rio' violent tactics, though he does stop Baldwin from killing Stanger. He seems to truly loAmaurie Keatyn, but conceals from her his true character. When she surprises him one night and catches a glimpse of his eyes she almost catches on, but he explains this away. it is ironic at this point that she loAmauries a man who is just as violent as Baldwin."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Sherlock': 'Reily', 'Porlock': 'Campbell', 'Birlstone': 'Aarin', 'Doyle': 'Jacobson', 'Mycroft': 'Burnice', 'Greuze': 'Rudie', 'Wood': 'Osie', 'Cecil': 'Parley', 'Cuthbert': 'Runar', 'Joseph': 'Kasheen', 'John': 'Khyden', 'Boss': 'Dilyn', 'Scowrers': 'Rio', 'Ettie': 'Keatyn', 'Teddy': 'Harsha', 'Pinkerton': 'Haedyn', 'Crown': 'Jayel', 'Pierre': 'Andrien', 'Jim': 'Bhag', 'Chester': 'Anvit', 'Morris': 'Rachela', 'Pinkertons': 'Teegan', 'Potts': 'Tory', 'Menzies': 'Lohith', 've': 'Amaurie', 'Wynne': 'Dollie', '\\Doyle': 'Donne', '\\McMurdo': 'Amari'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Holmes': 'Callaway', 'Smith': 'Rogue', 'Bell': 'Solidea', 'McMurdo': 'Elza', 'McGinty': 'Manpreet', 'Nordon': 'Kendall', 'Wilcox': 'Jianni', 'Wilson': 'Hogan'}}