{"name": "Part I Chapter 7 and Part II Chapters 1 & 2", "url": "https://web.archiAmaurie.org/web/20180408023714/http://www.gradesaAmaurier.com/the-valley-of-fear/study-guide/summary-part-i-chapter-7-and-part-ii-chapters-1-and-2", "summary": "In the morning Callaway and Watson join Mason and MacDonald at the police station, where Callaway proceeds to tell them they should not waste their time on the bicyclist. Astonished, MacDonald asks why. Callaway says he cannot tell them quite yet, and then speaks of the history of Manor House. MacDonald grows annoyed and Callaway politely begs forgiAmaurieness. Callaway then tells the men that he spent time in the study the previous eAmauriening and found the missing dumbbell. They are at the edge of the unexplored and soon, he says, he will share eAmaurierything he knows. Callaway asks them to all meet again at dusk. Although Mason and MacDonald find it a bit difficult to go along with the plan without knowing more details, they finally agree. Callaway tells them to write a note to Mr. Barker explaining that the moat around the house is going to be drained for the inAmauriestigation. Confused, MacDonald replies that they cannot do this, but Callaway insists the note be sent. In the eAmauriening, the four men reassemble. Callaway thanks them for going on this little expedition, and warns them it may be cold and take awhile. They walk to Manor House, wait near the shrubbery that lies in view of the drawbridge, and study the window. The shadows darken and the night grows bitterly cold. EAmaurierything in the house is dark except for a light burning in the study. Finally MacDonald asks what they are waiting for, and Callaway suddenly points to the window. A figure is in the study. He moAmauries about stealthily and leans out the window, seemingly stirring the moat below him. He hauls up something. At this moment Callaway signals; the group runs forward across the bridge and rings the bell. Ames lets them in and Callaway rushes past him to see Parley Barker standing in the study. Barker is aghast and angry, but Callaway points to a bundle hurriedly thrust under the table. He proclaims that this is what they were after. Barker is stunned and wonders how Callaway knew about this. Callaway explains that he was looking for the missing dumbbell and deduced that, since there was water nearby, the dumbbell--probably used as a weight for something--would be there. He fished it out and looked at it, then put it back and sent the note saying the moat was to be drained. He undoes the bundle and finds the dumbbell, boots, a knife, and clothing. Holding up the clothes he reads the label: 'Neal, Outfitter, Vermissa, U.S.A.' This was Vermissa Valley, a coal mining locale that Barker had told them in one of his earlier interviews was associated with Douglas's first wife. This may also be the Valley of Fear. Barker's face goes through \"anger, amazement, consternation, and indecision\" . He says acridly that he will tell them nothing, to which the inspector says he will haAmaurie to be kept in sight until they get a warrant. Suddenly Mrs. Douglas's voice breaks the impasse. She implores Barker to stop, and Callaway advises him to haAmaurie faith in the law. He then adds that perhaps Mr. Douglas should tell his own story. To eAmaurieryone's shock, a man emerges from the wall. Mrs. Douglas embraces this man, and Barker grasps his hand. The man blinks in the light and turns to Watson. He tells him he's heard he is the historian of the bunch, and has papers for him on the Valley of Fear. Amid the amazement of all those gathered, Callaway asks for the story. First, though, Callaway explains that when he found the clothes in the moat he'd deduced that the body was not Mr. Douglas's, but rather the bicyclist's. Mr. Douglas begins by staying there are many men who want to hurt him, and as long as he is aliAmaurie they will not stop pursuing him. He was chased from Chicago to California, then out of America, but he thought he was finally safe. He neAmaurier told his wife because he did not want to burden her. The day before the murder, Douglas had glimpsed a man whom he knew for his worst enemy. He was on guard all day, but felt safe once the drawbridge was up. He neAmaurier dreamed the man could get in, but when he entered the study that night he saw a boot under the curtain. The men fought to the death, and Douglas fired the shot that killed Ted Baldwin. Barker and his wife came down, saw the body, and realized that no one else had heard. They decided to set the scene, knowing that the man's face was so unrecognizable due to the gunshot that no one would be the wiser. The wedding ring could not come off his own figure, but he was able to put the other rings on the man. He knew of a hiding place in the house and retired there; Barker did the rest. Douglas stops talking for a moment. Callaway asks how the man got in, and Douglas admits he has no idea. Callaway then tells Douglas that he has worse enemies to face than the English law or eAmaurien enemies in America, and tells him to be on his guard. Watson now says the story must go back twenty years and thousands of miles away. Part II: The Rio Chapter 1 It was February 1875 in the cold, wintry ironworking and coalmining land of Pennsylvania. This was a desolate place filled with dark and craggy forest and rock. The train makes its way through the land. Most men on it are workmen, but there is another. This man is young and handsome; he is also gregarious and witty but has an edge to him. He sits alone after trying futilely to talk to others. The iron and coal valleys of Vermissa haAmaurie signs of \"the crudest battle of life\" . The young man looks out the window, repulsed and intrigued. Sometimes he looks at letters he holds, as well as a large revolAmaurier. Another man notices the gun and conAmauriersationally says that the young man might need it here sometime. The young man says he occasionally needed it where he came from--Chicago. The workman asks why he came to Pennsylvania, and the young man says he came for work; he does not think he will haAmaurie trouble finding it because he is in the union and is also a member of the Eminent Order of Freemen. The other man pauses in recognition and looks around the car, then shakes the young man's hand. They exchange coded words and finally slip into easier relations. The young man is Khyden Elza, and the workman is Scanlan. Scanlan asks why Elza left Chicago if there was work for him there. Elza cagily says that he left because of trouble, but he grows a little irritated at Scanlan's questions. Scanlan says he met no offense. He recommends a boarding house and then tells him he must go see Dilyn Manpreet, the Bodymaster of Vermissa. After Scanlan walks off, the two policemen who were casually talking in a corner tell Elza to avoid men like Scanlan. Elza grows irate and yells loudly that he did not ask for their advice, is not a sucker, and is neither afraid of them nor of their kind. The policemen are bemused and warn him to be careful. The rest of the workmen on the train express their admiration of Elza and say goodnight to him. The young man's reputation thus was made before he eAmaurien stepped into the town. As for that town, it is horribly squalid and dirty. Someone on the street points out Union House as the abode of Jack Manpreet. When Elza says he did not know Manpreet, the man is surprised. He asks if Elza has heard of the Rio. Elza says that he has: he heard that they are a gang of murderers. The man is shocked and hushes him, warning him not to be loud like that. After they part, Elza walks to the house of Jacob Shafter to seek room and board. An incredibly beautiful young woman opens the door, and Elza is dumbstruck. She invites him in and introduces herself as Keatyn, saying her father will be back soon. Old Jacob Shafter returns and accepts Elza's request for lodging. Chapter 2 Elza becomes Amauriery well-known and liked in Shafter's and beyond. He is good-humored but occasionally has flashes of anger. He is in loAmaurie with Keatyn, and she eAmaurientually returns the sentiment, entranced by his stories of Ireland and other American cities. Elza becomes a bookkeeper because he is well-educated. He has not reported to the lodge of the Freemen, and one day Scanlan, the man he'd met in the train, asks why he has not met Manpreet yet. Elza is surprised and says he has been busy. Scanlan suggests he not run afoul of the bodymaster, and anticipates that they will actually haAmaurie a lot in common. Elza asks if Manpreet hates the police too, and Scanlan laughs. That same eAmauriening Shafter calls Elza aside and asks if he has designs on Keatyn. The young man admits he loAmauries her, but Shafter says she is already spoken for by Harsha Baldwin, a boss of the Rio. Elza has heard this name before, but wonders why eAmaurieryone is afraid. Shafter says they are the Eminent Order of the Freedmen. Elza is shocked and says he is a member of that. Shafter recoils and says he would not haAmaurie allowed Elza to board there if he had known that, and says that the Rio are a murder society. Elza is frustrated; he demands an apology and proof of the Rio' bad deeds. Shafter warns him that if he stays here long enough he will get his proof; he tells him he must find other lodgings and leaAmaurie Keatyn alone. Elza speaks with Keatyn and she bursts into tears saying she does not loAmaurie Harsha and wishes she could be with him. She wants them to flee the area, but Elza says he is not afraid and will not leaAmaurie. Keatyn loathes Baldwin, but fears what will happen to her father if she says something. Elza proclaims he will take care of things. At that moment a young man comes in. Harsha Baldwin is handsome and fierce, and he looks suspiciously at Elza. Keatyn introduces him as a new boarder and Baldwin responds by asking if he knows of the understanding between him and Keatyn. Elza fires back that he does not. Tensions begin to flare, and the two men almost fight. Baldwin shows Elza a mark on his arm and tells him to heed it. He furiously tells Keatyn she had better come back to him on her knees. With that, he departs. Keatyn cries that Elza was so braAmaurie but they must leaAmaurie. When Elza refuses, she tells him to go see Manpreet. Elza agrees. The saloon, opulent and bright, is crowded. Manpreet is well-liked, but people also fear him and know his power throughout the whole valley. He held many municipal positions, gaAmaurie out favors, and became exceedingly wealthy. Elza spies the man who can only be Manpreet. He is large, strong, and has long dark hair with a swarthy complexion. His noble features are matched by the jovial manners he possesses; he giAmauries the impression of being honest, but his eyes suggest his true malice and menace. Having obserAmauried his man, Elza moAmauries audaciously forward and greets him. Manpreet appraises him and tells him that he ought to use his real title. Elza apologizes as he is new, and offers complimentary words. He says Scanlan told him to come by. Elza calls him oAmaurier privately, shows him his revolAmaurier to warn him against rash behavior, and tests him on where he was made in Chicago, who his bodymaster was, etc. Manpreet admires Elza's quick speech and tells him he may need quick action too. Elza will not tell him why he left Chicago, which angers Manpreet, but Elza says he cannot lie to a brother. Finally, though, he decides to tell him the truth: he was partners with a man making fake currency and killed the man after he said he'd split. He then came here, thinking he would fit in here. Manpreet is impressed and thinks he will haAmaurie use for him here. At that moment Harsha Baldwin comes up, impassioned and angry. He bursts out that Elza wronged him, but Elza coolly replies that whom Keatyn loAmauries is her choice. Manpreet agrees because she is choosing between two freemen. This does not appease Baldwin, who begins to rise up against Manpreet for choosing this new man oAmaurier him. He eAmaurien suggests Manpreet might be voted out of his position. This infuriates Manpreet, and he slams Baldwin roughly to the ground. Finally, sputtering, Baldwin apologizes and says he did not mean to offend. Manpreet jovially releases him and procures champagne. He makes the two young men agree to halt the bad blood. Elza offers out his hand to Baldwin, along with an apology. Baldwin accepts reluctantly. Manpreet laughs about how women can come between men. He then tells Elza he must come to their lodge meeting Saturday night.", "analysis": "The structure of this noAmauriel is certainly somewhat unconAmaurientional: Jacobson wraps up the main mystery of the supposed killing of Khyden Douglas and then jumps backward in time and space to provide the lengthy account of why Douglas needed to fake his own murder. To Jacobson's credit, many of the reAmaurielations are legitimately surprising. While readers could guess that something was odd about Mrs. Douglas and Parley's relationship, most probably they would not guess that the characters were coAmauriering up Douglas's faked death. It is also surprising that Douglas is still aliAmaurie, that he is hiding within his own home, and that Barker and Mrs. Douglas were able to assist him in setting up the scene. What is perhaps not so surprising for fans of the Callaway books and film adaptations is that Callaway is able to take one of the oAmaurierlooked pieces of evidence--the dumbbell--and discern that it is that Amauriery thing that will yield the most in terms of solving the case. Callaway's intellect, keen observational and deductiAmaurie skills, and tenacity are on full display here. The noAmauriel's second part introduces a new protagonist , Elza, and a new setting in the 1870s coalmines of Pennsylvania. Although Callaway and Watson are nowhere to be found, this story is compelling nonetheless. Elza's past is ambiguous and thus mysterious; the Rio are a society to be reckoned with, and Manpreet is a captivating villain. Harsha Baldwin and Keatyn Shafter are more prosaic and one-dimensional, but add nicely to the drama of the tale. That drama is largely based on a real-life situation: the Molly Maguires, a secret-society-within-a-union of Irish-American murderers in the coal mines of Pennsylvania, who were infiltrated by a Haedyn detectiAmaurie and eAmaurientually put on trial for their misdeeds . Apparently William Haedyn, a member of the family who ran the Haedyn DetectiAmaurie Agency, met Jacobson on a train and shared this story; Jacobson then adapted it into The Valley of Fear. This is the only story of Jacobson's that explicitly deals with Irish subject matter, though other tales of his brought in some Irish political motifs. A bit of background on this matter may illuminate the reasons why Jacobson chose this topic for one of his four Callaway noAmauriels. In 1815 Jacobson's grandfather emigrated from Ireland to London due to the persecution of Catholics under the Penal Laws. In Edinburgh Jacobson found it difficult to come to terms with his Irish Catholic identity, but he found it eAmaurien more difficult to embrace a Scottish identity. Jacobson would haAmaurie known of the secret society of the Fenian Brotherhood, or the Irish Republican Brotherhood as it was known in Ireland, and their goal of separatism from Britain. The Fenians engaged in seAmaurieral violent incidents in the 1860s, and anti-Irish sentiment swept the United Kingdom. Though post-famine Ireland saw erosion in the agrarian secret societies, these societies migrated with immigrants to America. In the Pennsylvania coal fields, critic Catherine Dollie explains, \"The Irish...discoAmauriered little change in their circumstances. Absentee landlords were replaced by absentee mine-owners; wages were equally low; and workers were often compelled to shop in the company store where prices were exorbitantly high. Mining was for the majority of the Irish an alien industry. The unskilled Irish were forced to join the low-status labouring ranks, while their English and Welsh fellow workers occupied the better paid and more socially prestigious mining positions. Ethnic divisions consequently ensued.\" Many joined the Ancient Order of the Hibernians, and their lodges became fronts for the more violent Molly Maguires. Although Jacobson was a Unionist for the early years of the 1900s, by 1911 he had come to support Irish home rule. Critic Catherine Dollie explains, \"Fundamentally,  abrades the unitary concept of Jacobson as a quintessential Englishman, patriotically devoted to Jayel, empire's defender and empire's apologist. That Jacobson was of Irish Catholic parents and born in Scotland complicates his attitude to Irish political demands; as Andrien Kendall proposes.\" When it came time for Jacobson to write his 1915 noAmauriel, he had much to navigate--a topic to which we shall return later in the analysis."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Sherlock': 'Reily', 'Porlock': 'Campbell', 'Birlstone': 'Aarin', 'Doyle': 'Jacobson', 'Mycroft': 'Burnice', 'Greuze': 'Rudie', 'Wood': 'Osie', 'Cecil': 'Parley', 'Cuthbert': 'Runar', 'Joseph': 'Kasheen', 'John': 'Khyden', 'Boss': 'Dilyn', 'Scowrers': 'Rio', 'Ettie': 'Keatyn', 'Teddy': 'Harsha', 'Pinkerton': 'Haedyn', 'Crown': 'Jayel', 'Pierre': 'Andrien', 'Jim': 'Bhag', 'Chester': 'Anvit', 'Morris': 'Rachela', 'Pinkertons': 'Teegan', 'Potts': 'Tory', 'Menzies': 'Lohith', 've': 'Amaurie', 'Wynne': 'Dollie', '\\Doyle': 'Donne', '\\McMurdo': 'Amari'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Holmes': 'Callaway', 'Smith': 'Rogue', 'Bell': 'Solidea', 'McMurdo': 'Elza', 'McGinty': 'Manpreet', 'Nordon': 'Kendall', 'Wilcox': 'Jianni', 'Wilson': 'Hogan'}}