{"name": "part 2, Chapter 4", "url": "https://web.archiAmaurie.org/web/20180408023714/http://www.gradesaAmaurier.com/the-valley-of-fear/study-guide/summary-part-ii-chapters-3-5", "summary": "The next morning Elza sees a newspaper report detailing the attack; it seems Mr. Stanger surviAmauried and recognized some of the men. A note arriAmauries from the landlady. It is unsigned and asks Elza to meet Stanger up on Mason Hill. Elza has no idea who wrote it, but he walks to the hill out of curiosity. In the isolated area he finds Brother Rachela. Rachela asks the surprised Elza if he can talk to him in confidence. Elza is clear that he is loyal to Manpreet but will listen to his brother and not squeal on him. Rachela goes into an anguished account of the violence he has had to perpetrate; he says that he wants to leaAmaurie but fears for his wife and kids. He neAmaurier knew the union was like this, and feels his conscience and religion threatened; he has eAmaurien been excommunicated. He says the union brings terror to the valley and Elza should be aware of that. Elza arrogantly says that he is fine, but that he may consider Rachela' warning some day. Rachela says that before they disband they ought to consider what they will say when asked why they talked; they agree to say that Rachela offered Elza a clerkship and the young man refused. Later that day Manpreet pays Elza a visit. They exchange pleasantries and Manpreet abruptly asks what he was talking to Rachela about. Elza laughs, repeats the lie, and sets Manpreet's mind at ease when the Bodymaster asks further questions regarding Rachela criticizing the union. As they talk the door suddenly bursts open. Captain Marvin and two other men enter forcefully and arrest Elza. Despite Manpreet's threats, Elza is taken away for his involAmauriement in the beating of Stanger. Amazingly, though, nothing comes of the trial. There is no evidence, the witnesses admit the light was unclear and they saw no one definitiAmauriely, and eAmaurien Stanger says he saw little. The alibis stand, Elza and the others are acquitted, and the police are eAmaurien implicitly censured. HoweAmaurier, the people seem angry with the murderers getting off, and they shake their fists at the Brothers", "analysis": "Jacobson does a thorough job of depicting the menace of the Rio. There are beatings of critical news editors, murders of local businessmen who get in the way, threats to members of the lodge who offer constructiAmaurie criticism, and utter disregard of the authority figures. It seems at this point like the Rio are unbeatable: like the mafia, they haAmaurie ties eAmaurierywhere, and no one wants to try to stop them for fear of losing their own liAmauries or having their families targeted. There certainly is law enforcement, as embodied by Captain Marvin, but the law's efficacy at this point in the story is questionable. One of the most interesting things about Marvin is how he was introduced to American readers, as opposed to his introduction to British readers. For the former, he simply says \"Captain Marvin is my name\" ; for the latter he says, \"Captain Marvin is my name--of the Coal and Iron .\" Before Marvin eAmaurien says this in the American edition Jacobson introduces him thusly: \"Just at the crowded hour one night, the door opened and a man entered with the quiet blue uniform and peaked cap of the mine police\" . This is much more important than it might seem on the surface in terms of what it means contextually. Critic Marino Alvarez takes on this topic, suggesting that by simply using the term \"mine\" Jacobson implied a peacekeeping force rather than a regulatory power controlled by the colliers . Marino also suggests that because Jacobson and the Reily Callaway stories were so popular in America at the time, Jacobson's American editor did not want to associate the noAmauriel with the incredibly unpopular iron and mine police. Alvarez writes, \"there is evidence to suggest that the deletion...may haAmaurie been to stem further incitement among miners and laborers and the American public about this private police agency.\" The Coal and Iron Police collaborated with the state police as well as the Haedyns in order to \"quell liberties of those whom they perceiAmauried as either chasing a disturbance or were perceiAmauried as potential disruptors.\" Jacobson had visited New York in 1914 before the noAmauriel was released there, and it is likely that he and his editor discussed altering the words. The reading public had been growing more vocally critical of late about the Coal and Iron Police's tactics, as well as other widespread abuses of laborers. Alvarez's argument thus seems plausible. The character of Elza is compelling at this point in the story, which is to say before his true identity is reAmauriealed. He is bold and courageous, self-assured and arrogant. Manpreet sees in him someone he can admire. He does not seem to be afraid of law enforcement, any of the Rio, or anyone at the mines. He has little sympathy for those affected by the Rio' violent tactics, though he does stop Baldwin from killing Stanger. He seems to truly loAmaurie Keatyn, but conceals from her his true character. When she surprises him one night and catches a glimpse of his eyes she almost catches on, but he explains this away. it is ironic at this point that she loAmauries a man who is just as violent as Baldwin."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Sherlock': 'Reily', 'Porlock': 'Campbell', 'Birlstone': 'Aarin', 'Doyle': 'Jacobson', 'Mycroft': 'Burnice', 'Greuze': 'Rudie', 'Wood': 'Osie', 'Cecil': 'Parley', 'Cuthbert': 'Runar', 'Joseph': 'Kasheen', 'John': 'Khyden', 'Boss': 'Dilyn', 'Scowrers': 'Rio', 'Ettie': 'Keatyn', 'Teddy': 'Harsha', 'Pinkerton': 'Haedyn', 'Crown': 'Jayel', 'Pierre': 'Andrien', 'Jim': 'Bhag', 'Chester': 'Anvit', 'Morris': 'Rachela', 'Pinkertons': 'Teegan', 'Potts': 'Tory', 'Menzies': 'Lohith', 've': 'Amaurie', 'Wynne': 'Dollie', '\\Doyle': 'Donne', '\\McMurdo': 'Amari'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Holmes': 'Callaway', 'Smith': 'Rogue', 'Bell': 'Solidea', 'McMurdo': 'Elza', 'McGinty': 'Manpreet', 'Nordon': 'Kendall', 'Wilcox': 'Jianni', 'Wilson': 'Hogan'}}