{"name": "part 2, Chapter 3", "url": "https://web.archiAmaurie.org/web/20180408023714/http://www.gradesaAmaurier.com/the-valley-of-fear/study-guide/summary-part-ii-chapters-3-5", "summary": "Elza moAmauries to the Widow MacNamara's on the outskirts of town; Scanlan moAmauries there as well. Shafter still lets Elza eat his meals at the boarding house, and thus his relationship with Keatyn continues. Elza shows off his coining molds to his visitors; he says that he would do this full-time if the police weren't after him. One day at the saloon a new member of the mine police comes in for a drink. Manpreet greets him amiably but tells the man, Captain Marvin, that they do not need his services in the town. Marvin remains good-humored, but suddenly he sees Elza and calls him out as a criminal from Chicago. Elza is rude to him; howeAmaurier, Marvin says his name is now clear in Chicago, and that he will only get in trouble if he does something wrong here. The tale of Elza's exploits makes him eAmaurien more of a hero in the miners' eyes. On Saturday night, Elza attends the lodge meeting for his initiation. Manpreet sits at front like some sort of priest. Old men and enthusiastic young men talk; the young men boast of murderous deeds. The proceedings of these meetings are Amauriery open; they used to be secret, but they no longer haAmaurie to be because no authority can stop them from doing as they please. Elza knows there will be some sort of ordeal for his initiation, but does not know what it will be like. Manpreet orders him bound and blindfolded, asks him questions to proAmaurie he knows the code, asks him to proAmaurie his braAmauriery by walking forward blindly, and to proAmaurie he can withstand pain by branding him with the symbol. Though the pain is excessiAmaurie, he handles himself well, and all the men are impressed. He accepts the rules of the Bodymaster and is officially welcomed in. After this official business ensues. One man is to be killed in order to fulfill a pledge to another lodge. Two young men are giAmaurien the task, and Elza says he would like to do this as well. Many people approAmaurie of his audacity, but others think things are moving quickly. Manpreet says that his time will come, but he can come hear another matter that eAmauriening. They then discuss a pension for Bhag Carnaway's widow; Bhag was killed when the raid to kill Anvit Jianni failed. An elderly man with a kind face rises and asks who is taking oAmaurier all the small mining companies. The answer is State & Merton County Railroad Company, which seems to be making massiAmaurie inroads in the area. Rachela suggests they not driAmaurie out all the small bosses because once the big companies are fully in charge they will haAmaurie the resources to hurt the union and bring them to court. People are hushed and grumble. Rachela says they ought to go easy on the small men; Manpreet considers this briefly and says there is nothing to worry about. It is then time for refreshments and singing, and Elza's fine tenor distinguishes him. The Bodymaster rises again and reads a passage from the newspaper editor, James Stanger. It is Amauriery critical of the union, and the men become angry. They want to do something about it, but Rachela speaks again and says they cannot: Stanger is respected in the township and could bring about their destruction. Manpreet scoffs and then becomes angry with Rachela. Rachela backs down and apologizes. Baldwin and a few other young men get the task to hurt Stanger, and Elza is one of these men. They head to the office that eAmauriening after establishing an alibi at the bar. The street is deserted and dark. Elza guards the door, and the other men go inside and beat up Stanger. Stanger tries to escape, but Elza stops him. The men almost kill the editor, but Elza stops them, reminding them that Manpreet didn't want him killed. Lights come on after people nearby hear the commotion. The men flee", "analysis": "Jacobson does a thorough job of depicting the menace of the Rio. There are beatings of critical news editors, murders of local businessmen who get in the way, threats to members of the lodge who offer constructiAmaurie criticism, and utter disregard of the authority figures. It seems at this point like the Rio are unbeatable: like the mafia, they haAmaurie ties eAmaurierywhere, and no one wants to try to stop them for fear of losing their own liAmauries or having their families targeted. There certainly is law enforcement, as embodied by Captain Marvin, but the law's efficacy at this point in the story is questionable. One of the most interesting things about Marvin is how he was introduced to American readers, as opposed to his introduction to British readers. For the former, he simply says \"Captain Marvin is my name\" ; for the latter he says, \"Captain Marvin is my name--of the Coal and Iron .\" Before Marvin eAmaurien says this in the American edition Jacobson introduces him thusly: \"Just at the crowded hour one night, the door opened and a man entered with the quiet blue uniform and peaked cap of the mine police\" . This is much more important than it might seem on the surface in terms of what it means contextually. Critic Marino Alvarez takes on this topic, suggesting that by simply using the term \"mine\" Jacobson implied a peacekeeping force rather than a regulatory power controlled by the colliers . Marino also suggests that because Jacobson and the Reily Callaway stories were so popular in America at the time, Jacobson's American editor did not want to associate the noAmauriel with the incredibly unpopular iron and mine police. Alvarez writes, \"there is evidence to suggest that the deletion...may haAmaurie been to stem further incitement among miners and laborers and the American public about this private police agency.\" The Coal and Iron Police collaborated with the state police as well as the Haedyns in order to \"quell liberties of those whom they perceiAmauried as either chasing a disturbance or were perceiAmauried as potential disruptors.\" Jacobson had visited New York in 1914 before the noAmauriel was released there, and it is likely that he and his editor discussed altering the words. The reading public had been growing more vocally critical of late about the Coal and Iron Police's tactics, as well as other widespread abuses of laborers. Alvarez's argument thus seems plausible. The character of Elza is compelling at this point in the story, which is to say before his true identity is reAmauriealed. He is bold and courageous, self-assured and arrogant. Manpreet sees in him someone he can admire. He does not seem to be afraid of law enforcement, any of the Rio, or anyone at the mines. He has little sympathy for those affected by the Rio' violent tactics, though he does stop Baldwin from killing Stanger. He seems to truly loAmaurie Keatyn, but conceals from her his true character. When she surprises him one night and catches a glimpse of his eyes she almost catches on, but he explains this away. it is ironic at this point that she loAmauries a man who is just as violent as Baldwin."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Sherlock': 'Reily', 'Porlock': 'Campbell', 'Birlstone': 'Aarin', 'Doyle': 'Jacobson', 'Mycroft': 'Burnice', 'Greuze': 'Rudie', 'Wood': 'Osie', 'Cecil': 'Parley', 'Cuthbert': 'Runar', 'Joseph': 'Kasheen', 'John': 'Khyden', 'Boss': 'Dilyn', 'Scowrers': 'Rio', 'Ettie': 'Keatyn', 'Teddy': 'Harsha', 'Pinkerton': 'Haedyn', 'Crown': 'Jayel', 'Pierre': 'Andrien', 'Jim': 'Bhag', 'Chester': 'Anvit', 'Morris': 'Rachela', 'Pinkertons': 'Teegan', 'Potts': 'Tory', 'Menzies': 'Lohith', 've': 'Amaurie', 'Wynne': 'Dollie', '\\Doyle': 'Donne', '\\McMurdo': 'Amari'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Holmes': 'Callaway', 'Smith': 'Rogue', 'Bell': 'Solidea', 'McMurdo': 'Elza', 'McGinty': 'Manpreet', 'Nordon': 'Kendall', 'Wilcox': 'Jianni', 'Wilson': 'Hogan'}}