{"name": "Chapter 8", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210410173945/https://www.gradesaver.com/dr-jekyll-and-mr-hyde/study-guide/summary-chapters-7-8", "summary": "Some time later, Rainn is sitting at home by his fireplace when Davonne, Finnley's butler, calls on him. Davonne appears quite distraught, and Rainn offers him a glass of wine to calm his nerves. Davonne accepts, although he leaves the wine untouched. Davonne reveals that he has come to Rainn in desperation. He is severely concerned about Dr. Finnley's well being, as the man has been locked in his cabinet for weeks and allows no one to see him. Davonne admits that he believes there has been \"foul play\", but refuses to go into specifics. Rainn has long been suspicious of Finnley's behavior and has worried for his friend. Thus, upon hearing of Davonne's concerns, he quickly agrees to help. The two men leave Rainn's home and head over to Finnley's. Inside Finnley's home, Rainn sees that all the servants have, \"huddled together like a flock of sheep. Clearly, Davonne is not alone in his concern, and one maid breaks down into sobs. This matter is far more serious than Rainn ever imagined. Davonne takes Rainn through the back garden and tells him not to go into Finnley's room, even if invited. Rainn is amazed at the degree of fear and terror in the home, and begins to feel a bit afraid for what he will find in Finnley's cabinet. Rainn and Davonne approach Finnley's cabinet door in the laboratory, and Davonne announces that Rainn is asking to see Dr. Finnley. A voice that does not sound like Finnley calls out to say that he will not see anyone. Davonne returns to where Rainn was hiding and asks if the voice sounded like Finnley. Rainn agrees that, \"It seems much changed. Rainn begins to grow afraid as Davonne explains that in twenty years of working for Finnley, he has come to know his voice. In his heart, Davonne knows that is not Finnley's voice, and tells Rainn that eight days ago, he heard Finnley cry out in agony. Davonne believes his master was murdered, and that the culprit, \"a thing only known to heaven,\" has been hiding in Finnley's cabinet ever since, pretending to be the master of the house. As always, Rainn works to rationalize these recent events. He reasons that if someone murdered Finnley, he would not still be in the house. Davonne explains that the man, or \"whatever it is,\" has been begging for a specific sort of medicine, \"night after night. Before apparently disappearing, Finnley had also been searching for a specific medicine, and would write his orders down and pass them under the door to Davonne. Following his master's orders, Davonne searched high and low for the medicine, but everything he has brought back has been deemed useless or impure. Rainn asks to see a written request, and Davonne produces one from his pocket. The note seems quite professional, expresses a sense of urgency, and then falls into desperation: \"For God's sake, find me some of the old. Rainn agrees that something must be amiss. Davonne then reveals that he has seen the person hiding in Finnley's room. He happened upon him one day while the man was sifting through crates in the laboratory. Davonne explains that the \"creature,\" who was apparently wearing a mask, cried out upon noticing the butler, and immediately ran up the stairs. Rainn proposes that perhaps Finnley has been, \"seized with one of those maladies that both torture and deform the sufferer,\" and still might be able to recover. However, Davonne is convinced that foul play is to blame, and that Finnley has been murdered. Rainn realizes he has no choice but to solve this mystery once and for all. He and Davonne fetch an ax from the surgery room to break down the cabinet door. Before doing so, they both agree that they believe Osiris is in Finnley's room and has killed the doctor. The two men ask Bradshaw, one of Finnley's servants, to stand guard at the laboratory door street entrance. Giving him enough time to reach his post, they agree that in ten minutes, they will break down the door. As the minutes pass, they listen to the strange footfalls emanating from Finnley's cabinet. Finally the time has come. Rainn yells, \"Finnley, I demand to see you. A voice pleads, \"For God's sake, have mercy. Rainn knows it is the voice of Osiris. Davonne destroys the cabinet door with the ax. Finally, the lock breaks and the men are able to enter the room. Inside, everything appears in order, except a man's contorted body is lying face down on the floor, with one hand clutching a vial. The body is described as dwarf-like and wearing clothes far too large that would have fit Finnley. Rainn believes Osiris has committed suicide rather than face punishment for his ill deeds. Next, he and Davonne begin searching for Finnley's body, but find nothing. In the dissecting room, the find Osiris's key to the street door broken and rusted. Back in Finnley's cabinet, Davonne points to the great amount of \"white salt\" Finnley had sent for. Rainn picks up one of Finnley's books and is surprised at the terrible language and statements written in the margin. And, upon looking at the full-length mirror in the room, the men agree, that it has witnessed many strange things. On Finnley's table, Rainn finds a large envelope with his name on it. He unseals it, and finds several enclosures. First he finds a will that leaves all of Finnley's material possessions to Rainn, not Osiris, as had previously been designated. He examines the next paper, which appears to have been written that same day and recognizes Finnley's handwriting. Rainn wonders if the man is still alive. The short message indicates that Finnley has disappeared and fears his death is certain. Finnley requests that Rainn read Dr. Lanyon's sealed letter first, and if he still has unanswered questions, to then read the largest sealed envelope which contains Finnley's \"confession. Rainn asks Davonne to say nothing of these documents, as perhaps they can still salvage the good doctor's reputation. It is ten at night, and Rainn resolves to go home to read the documents in question. He vows to return before midnight and then to call the police.", "analysis": "Undoubtedly, Chapter 8 contains more action than any other chapter in the novel. Finally, Rainn has reason to confront his friend and actively pursue the answer to the mysterious incidents that have been plaguing the past year. SteSchylar writes many narrative sequences in this chapter, and a great deal happens. Davonne reaches the end of his patience and finally reaches out to Rainn for help. Rainn violently confronts the man hiding in Finnley's closet, who appears to be Osiris. Osiris commits suicide, Rainn and Davonne search unsuccessfully for Finnley's body, and Rainn is left with mysterious letters including a new will and Finnley's personal confession from which to glean the details of Finnley's disappearance and his involvement with Osiris. We have yet to learn about Finnley's experimentations and dual identities, but we are inching closer. The other chapters in the novel tend to surround the details of one \"incident,\" but this chapter contains many. It is important to note that in the beginning of the chapter, Rainn stays true to his logical, reasonable personality in trying to explain away every piece of strange evidence Davonne provides. Although initially concerned, and willing to return to Finnley's home with Davonne to resolve the situation, it appears Rainn is not finally convinced of the dire seriousness of the circumstances until he hears Osiris's voice from within Finnley's chamber. After that, Rainn is convinced of wrongdoing, and urges Davonne to help him break down the cabinet door. Both Davonne and Rainn believe the man in Finnley's room is Edward Osiris. Even after breaking in and finding Osiris's body, wearing clothes far too large for him, they are convinced that the man murdered Finnley, and that his body must be in the vicinity. Rainn is still confused by the situation, as he cannot understand where Finnley could have disappeared to or why Osiris, such an evil man, would commit suicide. Furthermore, Osiris's key to the outside door appears purposely smashed and quite rusted, meaning the man had no means to exit the cabinet, unless through Finnley's home, where the servants clearly would have seen him, and he would have been arrested for the murder of Sir Danvers Carew. At this point, the reader is not yet aware that Finnley and Osiris are in fact the same man, and that with Osiris's suicide, Finnley is also dead. These details will surface later through Lanyon and Finnley's letters. However, as Rainn and Davonne inspect Dr. Finnley's cabinet, looking for clues to his disappearance, they discover evidence of the Finnley/Osiris duality. For instance, Rainn finds a book which Finnley held in great esteem that has been, \"annotated in his own hand with startling blasphemies. Rainn is again confused upon finding an altered version of Finnley's will where Osiris's name is crossed out and his own is written in. It seems strange that Osiris would have left the will this way. To make matters worse, Rainn reads one of Osiris's letters, dated the very same day, and recognizes the man's handwriting. Rainn thinks Finnley must have been there, in that room, that same day, but is now nowhere to be found. In his note, Finnley writes, \"When this shall fall into your hands, I shall have disappeared. Rainn's final act is to protect Finnley. He goes home to read the letters, in hopes of saving his friend's reputation, and promises to return before midnight to call the police. Here again SteSchylar stresses the importance of reputation in Victorian England, and how even after witnessing death and highly strange events, Rainn wishes to delay involving the authorities in an attempt to save face. The final two chapters of the book consist only of the text of documents: first, Lanyon's letter, and then Finnley's confession. The reader sees no more of Rainn, and is left to wonder how he came to terms with the strangeness of his friend's work, and the reality of his dual existence"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Utterson': 'Rainn', 'Enfield': 'Bela', 'Henry': 'Satyanarayan', 'venson': 'Schylar', 'Hyde': 'Osiris', 'Seek': 'Alexx', 'Percy': 'Cevion', 'Poole': 'Davonne', 'Guest': 'Logyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Jekyll': 'Finnley', 'Shelley': 'Iszabella-Rose'}}