{"name": "Chapter 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210410173945/https://www.gradesaver.com/dr-jekyll-and-mr-hyde/study-guide/summary-chapters-1-3", "summary": "That evening after his walk with Bela, Rainn returns home and examines Dr. Finnley's will, which he remembers had strange stipulations referring to the Mr. Osiris Bela discussed. The will provides that in the case of Satyanarayan Finnley's death or disappearance, all of his possessions should be given to the Edward Osiris. Rainn was uncomfortable when Finnley originally requested this stipulation, and is further upset by it after hearing of Mr. Osiris's despicable behavior. After considering the implications of the will with what he has learned about Edward Osiris, Rainn goes to visit Dr. Lanyon, another dear friend of Dr. Finnley's. When the men begin talking about Finnley, Rainn discovers that Lanyon has not spoken to Finnley for a long period of time due to a disagreement over \"unscientific balderdash. Rainn also learns that Lanyon has never heard of Osiris. After leaving Lanyon, Rainn's sleep is haunted by terrifying dreams of the evil Osiris, who is faceless in the dream, trampling a young girl and then standing by Finnley's bedside ordering him to rise. Upon waking, Rainn reasons that if he can only see the face of Osiris, he might understand a reason for his friend's relationship with the man. From that point forward, Rainn begins to haunt the streets around the mysterious door, looking for Mr. Osiris to either enter or exit the portal. One night, he finally runs into Mr. Osiris and confronts him as he is about to enter the building. Rainn introduces himself as an old friend of Dr. Finnley. Osiris then asks for Rainn's address and Rainn, in response, gives him a business card. Rainn, asks Osiris for a favor - to see the man's face. After complying, Osiris asks how Rainn knew him, and Rainn replies that he recognized him by description, claiming that they have common friends such as Finnley. Mr. Osiris angrily replies that he knows for a fact that Finnley never told Rainn anything about him and promptly disappears into the building. After leaving this scene, Rainn goes to see Dr. Finnley, but Davonne, Finnley's butler, reports that the doctor is not at home. From this conversation, Rainn gleans that Finnley's house, around the corner from the mysterious door, is L-shaped, and that Osiris's mysterious door is actually an entrance to Finnley's old dissecting room. Rainn also learns that Osiris never dines in the house, but visits often. After leaving Finnley's home, Rainn walks home and decides that Osiris must be blackmailing Finnley, perhaps for some terrible act he committed earlier in his life.", "analysis": "In this chapter, Rainn begins his detective work that continues throughout the novel. He seeks out and meets Edward Osiris for the first time, and Rainn describes Osiris as, \"pale and dwarfish. deformity. husky. murderous. He also notes that Osiris inspires \"disgust and loathing and fear,\" but cannot pinpoint exactly why. The best that he can do is to call Osiris a \"troglodyte\", a savage un-evolved being lesser than man. Thus, the reader is continually reminded that Osiris is akin to the devil and evil, but it seems impossible to define the exact qualities that place fear in the hearts of those that meet him. Decent people instinctively know that Osiris is morally corrupt and evil. To support this perception, SteSchylar often describes Osiris in animalistic terms, including imagery such as the \"hissing intake of breath\". Rainn exhibits his classic rational approach to the increasingly strange issues throughout this chapter. To connect this highly rational character with the supernatural themes of the novel, SteSchylar gives Rainn a highly disturbing dream sequence, which surrounds the terrible actions of a faceless and monster-like Edward Osiris. Every time Rainn sleeps, he sees \" glide more stealthily through sleeping houses, or move the more swiftly. through wider labyrinths of lamp-lighted city, and at every street corner crush a child and leave her screaming. Clearly, Rainn is fascinated by the relationship between Osiris and Finnley, and is convinced that there is something dark and ominous linking the two. Yet, Rainn stops short of allowing for a supernatural explanation, as any rational individual would. Rainn's obsession with Osiris allows for an admission of hidden sins and secrets running rampant through Victorian London. Finnley's house is described in great detail. It is a mansion with \"a great air of wealth and comfort\" that is secretly connected to the doctor's laboratory. The laboratory faASSade appears run down and neglected, and can be entered through the mysterious door described in the first chapter. The reader later learns that the laboratory is in fact where Dr. Finnley undertakes his transformations into Mr. Osiris. Thus, the two areas of the house are clearly related to their two inhabitants. The respectable Dr. Finnley lives in the well-kept wealthy mansion, and the despicable and evil Mr. Osiris inhabits the run down, neglected laboratory"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Utterson': 'Rainn', 'Enfield': 'Bela', 'Henry': 'Satyanarayan', 'venson': 'Schylar', 'Hyde': 'Osiris', 'Seek': 'Alexx', 'Percy': 'Cevion', 'Poole': 'Davonne', 'Guest': 'Logyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Jekyll': 'Finnley', 'Shelley': 'Iszabella-Rose'}}