{"name": "Chapter 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210410173945/https://www.gradesaver.com/dr-jekyll-and-mr-hyde/study-guide/summary-chapters-4-6", "summary": "On the same day of the murder, Mr. Rainn makes his way to Dr. Finnley's house, and meets with him in his laboratory. Rainn and Finnley discuss the unfortunate news that Sir Danvers Carew is dead, presumably killed by Mr. Osiris. Finnley swears that he is not hiding Osiris and that he is, \"done with him in this world. Finnley also claims that he has received a letter from Osiris, which he shows to Rainn. The letter thanks Finnley for his kindness and urges him that he need not worry for his safety, as he has a sure means of escape. Dr. Finnley does not have the envelope, and claims that he burned it after it was hand delivered. Finnley asks Rainn what to do with the letter, as he is concerned that his reputation will be damaged if he hands it over to the police. Rainn agrees to hold on to the letter, and tells Finnley he is glad that Osiris has disappeared, as Finnley's life was most likely in danger. When leaving the house, Finnley's butler Davonne tells Rainn that nothing was delivered that day, and Rainn begins to grow suspicious. Upon returning to his office, Rainn receives a dinner invitation from Finnley. When the letter arrives, Rainn's assistant, Mr. Logyn, is examining the writing on the letter supposedly from Osiris. Mr. Logyn instantly recognizes that the same individual wrote both letters, although the writing on the Osiris letters appears to be slanted in a certain direction. Rainn angrily assumes that Finnley has forged a letter for a murderer.", "analysis": "Much of this chapter consists of a contrast between Rainn and Finnley. Rainn is still quite the Victorian gentleman, putting image and appearance above all else. To protect Finnley's reputation, he goes to visit him and discuss the issue personally rather than informing the police of Finnley and Osiris's relationship and having them do the questioning. Moreover, even upon discovering Osiris's letter is almost certainly a forgery, Rainn refrains from confronting Finnley. In this way, Rainn loyally protects his friend. In contrast, Finnley lies to Rainn, defending Osiris with a fake letter. Here, for the first time, the reader begins to see hypocrisy in Dr. Finnley. He claims to be a loyal and honest man, but in fact he is a liar and forger. Interestingly, through SteSchylar's detailed description of Finnley's residence, the reader gains insight into the character's evolution. In the laboratory, Rainn describes \"three dusty windows barred with iron. One year previous, Mr. Bela described the same windows as, \"always shut but. clean. This slight detail provides a glance into the tumbling personal world of Dr. Finnley. At this point in the novel, it is important to examine what Rainn suspects of Finnley. While Finnley clearly is acting abnormal, Rainn does not yet comprehend that his friend and the evil Mr. Osiris are one in the same, although he appears to suspect foul play. Thus, the detective story continues, the intrigue grows, and the supernatural influence in the novel becomes stronger. Much of Dr. Finnley and Mr. Osiris is written in a perfunctory, businesslike tone. However, from this point forward, supernatural imagery begins to appear more frequently, and SteSchylar's language becomes increasingly descriptive and poetic. These changes assist in heightening the novel's suspense, and successfully carrying an intrigued reader to the shocking conclusion"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Utterson': 'Rainn', 'Enfield': 'Bela', 'Henry': 'Satyanarayan', 'venson': 'Schylar', 'Hyde': 'Osiris', 'Seek': 'Alexx', 'Percy': 'Cevion', 'Poole': 'Davonne', 'Guest': 'Logyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Jekyll': 'Finnley', 'Shelley': 'Iszabella-Rose'}}