{"name": "Chapter 7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210410173945/https://www.gradesaver.com/dr-jekyll-and-mr-hyde/study-guide/summary-chapters-7-8", "summary": "Once again, Mr. Bela and Mr. Rainn are walking by the mysterious door. Through one of the windows, Rainn spots Dr. Finnley, whom he has not seen for weeks. Rainn calls to Finnley and tells him he should get outside more. Finnley replies that he wishes he could, but doesn't dare. As he finishes his sentence, his smile disappears from his face and a look of utter terror takes over. It appears as though Finnley suffers some kind of seizure. Bela and Rainn only briefly saw the pain in Finnley's face before he quickly shut the window, but are both appalled. They walk on without speaking of the incident.", "analysis": "The beginning of Chapter 7 mirrors Chapter 1, as Bela and Rainn walk past Osiris's mysterious door. However, in the intervening year, much has changed. To Bela, Rainn, and the rest of the world, Finnley has imprisoned himself within the confines of his home and of his alternate identity, Osiris. At this point, the reader is still not meant to know of Finnley's dual identities, and the sense of mystery surrounding Finnley and Osiris's relationship and Finnley's reclusive behavior grows. Meanwhile, Rainn's world has become increasingly dark and horrifying, as Lanyon dies and Finnley hides himself from the world. Through these events, Rainn's rational and logical world is slowly disintegrating into a world of confusion and mystery. Moreover, while the events of the novel become increasingly strange, the language and detail becomes increasingly sparse. This pattern first appears in an inability to describe the specific horror of Osiris's face, grows more powerful when Lanyon refuses to discuss the specifics of his horrific shock, and continues to develop in this chapter when Bela and Rainn silently agree not to speak of Finnley's apparent seizure and strange behavior. Thus, as the dramatic action continues to develop, the suspense and mystery surrounding Finnley grows"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Utterson': 'Rainn', 'Enfield': 'Bela', 'Henry': 'Satyanarayan', 'venson': 'Schylar', 'Hyde': 'Osiris', 'Seek': 'Alexx', 'Percy': 'Cevion', 'Poole': 'Davonne', 'Guest': 'Logyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Jekyll': 'Finnley', 'Shelley': 'Iszabella-Rose'}}