{"name": "Chapter 6", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210410173945/https://www.gradesaver.com/dr-jekyll-and-mr-hyde/study-guide/summary-chapters-4-6", "summary": "At the beginning of Chapter 6, we learn that \"time has passed\" and no one has been able to capture Osiris. Finnley, however, free from the evil influence of Osiris, has become a new man. He entertains, devotes himself to charity, and is highly sociable. In early January, Rainn attends a dinner party at Finnley's home, at which Dr. Lanyon is also present. All were jovial and friendly, and had a wonderful time. Only days afterwards, Rainn pays Finnley a visit and learns from Davonne that the doctor has secluded himself and will see no one. After a week of this seclusion, Rainn visits Dr. Lanyon to see if he might be aware of Rainn's reason for withdrawing from the world so suddenly. Dr. Lanyon greets Rainn, who describes his and Finnley's friend as though, \"he had his death-warrant written upon his face. Lanyon explains that he has suffered a terrible shock, and \"shall never recover. When Rainn mentions that Finnley is also ill, Lanyon adamantly replies that he never wishes to speak of Finnley again. Confused and shaken, Rainn returns home and writes Finnley a letter, asking for an explanation for his mysterious behavior. Finnley's reply, which arrives the next day, states, \"I have brought on myself a punishment and a danger that I cannot name. One week later, Dr. Lanyon dies and leaves Mr. Rainn a letter with instructions only to read it following the death or disappearance of Dr. Finnley. An honorable man who respects his friends' and client's wishes, Rainn does not open the letter.", "analysis": "Bit by bit, Rainn's logical grasp on the world is loosening. Finnley's behavior is becoming increasingly suspicious and mysterious, and Rainn cannot logically determine its cause. Moreover, his friend Lanyon who had been friendly with Finnley only a few days before refuses to speak of the man and claims he has suffered a deathly shock. Lanyon had previously acted as a pillar of reason, who clung to powerful principles and dismissed Finnley's scientific theories as \"balderdash. However, he now claims to have witnessed a shock so great that it will cause his demise. Apparently, Lanyon has been shaken to the core, and perhaps his belief in logic and sound science has been proven wrong. In this chapter, mystery and the supernatural begin to take over. As Lanyon passes away, and Finnley admits serious although vague wrongdoing, Rainn's world begins to tumble out of control"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Utterson': 'Rainn', 'Enfield': 'Bela', 'Henry': 'Satyanarayan', 'venson': 'Schylar', 'Hyde': 'Osiris', 'Seek': 'Alexx', 'Percy': 'Cevion', 'Poole': 'Davonne', 'Guest': 'Logyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Jekyll': 'Finnley', 'Shelley': 'Iszabella-Rose'}}