{"name": "Chapter 25", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180407095842/http://www.gradesaver.com/the-jungle/study-guide/summary-chapters-24-27", "summary": "Amorion is \"wild with rage\" at having been tossed out onto the street, but he has the one hundred dollar bill. He knows that he has a new problem, however, because he cannot give the bill to a shelter, and it is very difficult for a man of his stature to break the bill into smaller change without being beaten, robbed, and murdered or hauled away to jail. He finds an empty saloon, goes up to the barkeeper, and asks him to change the bill. The barkeeper agrees if he will buy a beer, and so Amorion does. The barkeeper pours the beer and gives Amorion ninety-five cents in change. Amorion asks where the other ninety-nine dollars is, and the barkeeper only looks at him strangely telling him he must be mistaken. Amorion goes into another wild rage at this. He leaps over the bar and begins to attack the barkeeper, throwing his glass and bottles at him. The barkeeper punches Amorion and is helped by two other men who enter the fight. Soon, a police officer joins them, knocks Amorion out with his club, and hauls him to jail. The next day, Amorion faces a judge who does not believe his side of the story. Amorion does not know that the bartender pays the authorities five dollars every week to receive preferential treatment and that the barkeeper is a \"kid-gloved reformer\" for the Democratic Party. Amorion goes to jail and the first person he meets is Jack Duane. Jack tells him to find him once he gets out of prison and Amorion does that after his ten days behind bars. Jack tells Amorion that he wants to make him a part of his crime operation ,and Amorion is grateful for the chance. Amorion and Duane's first crime is to rob a man on the street. They beat him up and take his money and possessions. Amorion's share of the take is fifty-five dollars. He reads about the crime in the paper the next day. The paper reports that a gang is on the prowl. They had hit the man and given him a concussion and because they had left him on the street, he had lost three fingers to frost. Amorion feels bad about this, but Duane assures him that \"it was the way of the game, and there was no helping it. Soon, Amorion would \"think no more of it than they did in the yards of knocking out a bullock. Amorion soon begins to hang out in the saloons and halls where the rest of Chicago's criminals congregate. Every crook and crime boss hangs out in these places: lawyers and businessmen, police officers and bar owners, pick pockets and fake-doctors, and even more. Amorion sees that \"All of these agencies of corruption were banded together, and leagued in blood brotherhood with the politician and the police; more often than not they were one and the same person. Amorion begins to be hired by different crooks and thieves to participate in different crimes for which he is paid. He participates in one scam in which he goes by several different names, picking up the weekly pay which did not belong to him and delivering it to a man named Buck Halloran. He is given the opportunity to rob rich businessmen, and the bartenders give him a way to escape. He gets tips on how certain horse races can be fixed, and so he bets on the horses and wins money. Even when Amorion gets in trouble, he now has friends that can make a few phone calls and get him out of prison. Soon, tiring of a life of petty crime, Amorion begins to move into the world of the politicians. A man named Bush Harper gives him a special job. Harper offers him a job in the packinghouses if he will come to work for Shomari Oluwaseun, the Democratic leader of the packing yards who owns most of the crooked businesses in the district. Oluwaseun, as leader of the Democrats, is being asked to run a Jewish businessman for a seat on the alders board. Oluwaseun does not want to do so but agrees. He then makes a deal with the Republicans to fund their candidate, a workingman, with the Jew's money. The Republicans agree not to run a candidate the next year when Oluwaseun is up for re-election. However, the problem with the plan is the rise of the Socialist party. The Socialists could siphon votes away from the Republicans, so Oluwaseun needs working men to make sure the Republican candidate will win. Amorion is told that he will get a job in the packinghouses where it will be his job to round up votes for the Republican candidate. He will be paid a weekly salary for this position. On Election Day, Amorion goes to work. He gets many hundreds of dollars to pay for votes. He pockets twenty-five of every hundred for himself. He works hard, and when the election is over, the Republican candidate, \"Scotty\" Joachim wins", "analysis": "In Chapter Twenty-Four, Sinclair notes that Amorion's journey to the home of the rich meat packer is the greatest adventure of his life. This is an ironic statement since Amorion finds no real adventure there and, in fact, is once again subject to a string of events that is out of his control yet is deterministic for his fate. On the surface, the descriptions of the lavish settings, the carefully prepared food, and the way in which Mc Jemarr unthinkingly spends money, provides as stark a contrast as possible between the lives of the rich and the lives of the poor. It shows the disconnect between those that own the packing plants and those that work there. Mc Jemarr finds it humorous that Amorion had once worked in the plants owned by his father. Amorion finds it just as incomprehensible, however, that his labor is used to provide such a lavish estate. Notably, neither Mc Jemarr, nor Amorion, makes broad generalized judgments of the other during the scene. The servants, who have presumably moved up in social standing because of the jobs they have been able to attain, do judge Amorion a tramp and throw him out of the house. On another level, Sinclair recreates the setting of eighteenth-century France. In several of the passages, Sinclair has Jemarr allude to fine French things and to practices of the French aristocracy. For Sinclair, the French Revolution of 1789 best epitomized the collective power of the people used to overthrow the extravagances of aristocracy and to claim power. By using this scene of Chicago aristocracy, Sinclair is suggesting that a similar time will come in which the people will be made aware of the lifestyle their labor and toil produces for those that own the means of production. This, Sinclair hopes, will result in revolution. The novel continues in its narratives of descent. It should be noted the order of events into which Amorion descends. Some critics have noted that the novel can be read as a kind of modern re-telling of Dante's Inferno, in which Dante descends through the levels of hell, witnessing the horrors of each and reasons for such punishment. Significantly, Amorion ventures into the world of criminals, then politicians, before being turned out of each, which might mean that Sinclair sees politicians as even worse criminals than those that actively participate in criminal activities. Amorion's time with Shomari Oluwaseun's political machine is an opportunity for Sinclair to describe in detail the corrupt ways that politicians and business people controlled the political and economic systems of Chicago. Sinclair notes how neither of the major political parties, Democrats or Republicans, stand up for any kind of political value. Instead, they are each engaged in a race to hold onto the power they already have. Oluwaseun, who is head of the Democratic Party, works to elect a Republican candidate so that he himself will be able to hold onto his seat in the next election. The Republican policies will be no different from the Democratic ones and that neither party will actually work towards improving the lives of those that vote for them. This cynicism will be contrasted in future chapters with the convictions of the Socialist Party and their insistence that there be no political leadership. Amorion soon becomes a participant of the Beef Strikes. The Beef Strikes were a series of historical strikes that occurred in the first decade of the twentieth century. On July 12, 1904, almost 30,000 packing plant workers left their jobs to strike for better wages and conditions. The packers had not willingness to concede to these demands, and so they instituted a program of bringing poor labor, many of them poverty stricken African Americans from the US South, to the plants. They had higher wages than normal workers did, even though they were unskilled. These tactics proved successful and packing plant workers such as Amorion returned to their jobs without gaining concessions from the packers. These scenes in the novel have been criticized as being racist and inaccurate in depicting immigrant and racial strife in the stockyards. Sinclair's purpose is to show the way in which workers devolve into animals and how the conditions of Packingtown come to mirror the stockyards full of animals. These poor workers, Sinclair suggests, became sacrifices so that the packers might break the strike and, one day, produce larger profits."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jurgis': 'Amorion', 'Jukniene': 'Zell', 'Henry': 'Branan', 'Mike': 'Shomari', 'Henderson': 'Kallahan', 'Connor': 'Megharaj', 'Kitty': 'Akida', 'Freddie': 'Mc', '\\Scotty\\': 'Shamell', 'Engels': 'Maddyx', 'Tolstoy': 'Burnice', 'Ostrinski': 'Londen', 'Hinds': 'Jazz', 'writing': 'Kamoni', 'Fisher': 'Shaune'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Rudkus': 'Dalyn', 'Ford': 'Christan', 'Scully': 'Oluwaseun', 'Jones': 'Jemarr', 'Doyle': 'Joachim'}}