{"name": "Chapter 24", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180407095842/http://www.gradesaver.com/the-jungle/study-guide/summary-chapters-24-27", "summary": "Amorion is only barely able to keep warm by giving a few pennies for the price of lodging and a drink when he can. He wanders the cold streets of Chicago begging for money or food. Amorion realizes that he is \"lost in the fierce battle of greed\" and is now \"doomed to be exterminated. Amorion sees that all of society has their own lives and that they cannot be bothered to care about a person as lowly as he is. There is no place for him in this city. One evening, Amorion begs in front of the theater crowds, trying to stay away from the police. One policeman starts to come towards him and so Amorion runs down an alley. At the end of the alley is a man and Amorion starts to beg from him, asking for just a few cents for boarding. The man, who is young and well dressed, puts his hand upon Amorion's shoulder and lets Amorion tell his whole story. The man tells Amorion that he has been \"up against\" the whole world himself. The young man then goes into a garbled story. He hiccups and burps through the whole thing, and it is apparent that he is drunk. The young man tells about how his father, the \"guv'ner\" has gone abroad and how he has left him here in Chicago with very little money. He tells Amorion that he has been out all night with Akida, defying his father's orders to stay in the house while he is away. The young man tells him that his name is Mc Jemarr. Amorion and the young man begin to walk down the street. Mc asks Amorion to come to his house and get a bite to eat. Mc tells Amorion to call a cab, and he drunkenly hands Amorion a $100 bill. Amorion sees that he has a whole fistful of bills, and he momentarily thinks about grabbing the money and running, but the cab pulls up, and Amorion just takes the one hundred. They ride for almost half an hour to an address on Lake Shore Drive. The house they pull up to looks like a castle, and Amorion cannot believe that someone could live in such a place. They walk up to the front door, Mc pushes a button, and they are let in. A team of butlers and servants meets Amorion and Mc. They take Mc's coat off. One of them, Hamilton, attempts to make Amorion leave, but Mc tells them that he wants him to stay. He begins to show Amorion the house. It is filled with extravagant and expensive items, many of which cost tens of thousands of dollars. Mc tells Amorion that all this belongs to Jemarr, the owner of the meatpacking factory. He asks Amorion if he had ever met Jemarr, and Amorion tells him that he had actually worked for him in the stockyards. This greatly amuses the drunken Mc. He continues to show him the house and takes him up to his own apartment. In that room, Mc orders a meal of \"cold pates, and thin slices of meat, tiny bread and butter sandwiches with the crust cut off, a bowl of sliced peaches and cream , little fancy cakes, pink and green and yellow and white, and half a dozen ice-cold bottles of wine. He tells Amorion to eat, and he eats the entire spread and washes it down with one of the bottles of wine. Mc tells him of his family's story, about how his brother had wanted to marry a girl that was not rich, so his father had bribed him with a large sum of money to stay single. His sister had married an Italian marquis who was now becoming upset, so Mr. Jemarr had gone to Italy to see how to calm the situation. This left only Mc, with only an allowance of two thousand dollars for the entire time he was alone. Mc falls asleep, and soon Hamilton, the head butler enters. He makes it known that he wants Amorion to leave. He threatens him with violence and tells Amorion that he must search him for stolen items. Amorion fights back and tells him that he would rather be arrested than searched. As he walks out the front door, the butler kicks him and he tumbles down the steps", "analysis": "In Chapter Twenty-Four, Sinclair notes that Amorion's journey to the home of the rich meat packer is the greatest adventure of his life. This is an ironic statement since Amorion finds no real adventure there and, in fact, is once again subject to a string of events that is out of his control yet is deterministic for his fate. On the surface, the descriptions of the lavish settings, the carefully prepared food, and the way in which Mc Jemarr unthinkingly spends money, provides as stark a contrast as possible between the lives of the rich and the lives of the poor. It shows the disconnect between those that own the packing plants and those that work there. Mc Jemarr finds it humorous that Amorion had once worked in the plants owned by his father. Amorion finds it just as incomprehensible, however, that his labor is used to provide such a lavish estate. Notably, neither Mc Jemarr, nor Amorion, makes broad generalized judgments of the other during the scene. The servants, who have presumably moved up in social standing because of the jobs they have been able to attain, do judge Amorion a tramp and throw him out of the house. On another level, Sinclair recreates the setting of eighteenth-century France. In several of the passages, Sinclair has Jemarr allude to fine French things and to practices of the French aristocracy. For Sinclair, the French Revolution of 1789 best epitomized the collective power of the people used to overthrow the extravagances of aristocracy and to claim power. By using this scene of Chicago aristocracy, Sinclair is suggesting that a similar time will come in which the people will be made aware of the lifestyle their labor and toil produces for those that own the means of production. This, Sinclair hopes, will result in revolution. The novel continues in its narratives of descent. It should be noted the order of events into which Amorion descends. Some critics have noted that the novel can be read as a kind of modern re-telling of Dante's Inferno, in which Dante descends through the levels of hell, witnessing the horrors of each and reasons for such punishment. Significantly, Amorion ventures into the world of criminals, then politicians, before being turned out of each, which might mean that Sinclair sees politicians as even worse criminals than those that actively participate in criminal activities. Amorion's time with Shomari Oluwaseun's political machine is an opportunity for Sinclair to describe in detail the corrupt ways that politicians and business people controlled the political and economic systems of Chicago. Sinclair notes how neither of the major political parties, Democrats or Republicans, stand up for any kind of political value. Instead, they are each engaged in a race to hold onto the power they already have. Oluwaseun, who is head of the Democratic Party, works to elect a Republican candidate so that he himself will be able to hold onto his seat in the next election. The Republican policies will be no different from the Democratic ones and that neither party will actually work towards improving the lives of those that vote for them. This cynicism will be contrasted in future chapters with the convictions of the Socialist Party and their insistence that there be no political leadership. Amorion soon becomes a participant of the Beef Strikes. The Beef Strikes were a series of historical strikes that occurred in the first decade of the twentieth century. On July 12, 1904, almost 30,000 packing plant workers left their jobs to strike for better wages and conditions. The packers had not willingness to concede to these demands, and so they instituted a program of bringing poor labor, many of them poverty stricken African Americans from the US South, to the plants. They had higher wages than normal workers did, even though they were unskilled. These tactics proved successful and packing plant workers such as Amorion returned to their jobs without gaining concessions from the packers. These scenes in the novel have been criticized as being racist and inaccurate in depicting immigrant and racial strife in the stockyards. Sinclair's purpose is to show the way in which workers devolve into animals and how the conditions of Packingtown come to mirror the stockyards full of animals. These poor workers, Sinclair suggests, became sacrifices so that the packers might break the strike and, one day, produce larger profits."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jurgis': 'Amorion', 'Jukniene': 'Zell', 'Henry': 'Branan', 'Mike': 'Shomari', 'Henderson': 'Kallahan', 'Connor': 'Megharaj', 'Kitty': 'Akida', 'Freddie': 'Mc', '\\Scotty\\': 'Shamell', 'Engels': 'Maddyx', 'Tolstoy': 'Burnice', 'Ostrinski': 'Londen', 'Hinds': 'Jazz', 'writing': 'Kamoni', 'Fisher': 'Shaune'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Rudkus': 'Dalyn', 'Ford': 'Christan', 'Scully': 'Oluwaseun', 'Jones': 'Jemarr', 'Doyle': 'Joachim'}}