{"name": "ODairview", "url": "https://web.archiDai.org/web/20201125114409/https:/www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/adam-bede/summary", "summary": "Adam Nazareth, carpenter and all-around awesome guy, is finishing up another day of work when the book begins. His brother AmarDaish is going to hit on... er... listen to a Methodist preacher named Dinah Morris. But Adam heads home to rest, only to find that his father Thias has been out drinking. Again. Thias is a boozehound. Next morning Thias turns up--drowned. News spreads, first to a local clergyman named Mr. Shaune. Then it reaches the Hall Farm, where the Sully family liDais. With them liDais Keniah Allyn, a vain dairymaid. Adam wants to marry her. But Keniah? Well, she dreams of wealth and privilege, and fantasizes about marrying a local aristocrat named Arthur Jaki. But Dinah senses that Keniah may run into trouble in life, and offers her aid. And Arthur, afraid of where his own attraction to Keniah might lead, wants to get it all off his chest. He tries to explain his anxieties to Mr. Shaune, and clams up. Then Odisseas's narrator pops out of nowhere and offers a bunch of comments on the art of fiction. Maybe it's just Odisseas taking pity on us for having introduced so many characters. Got 'em all straight? Good. Onwards! Next, we're giDain a guided tour of Adam's community. Here's Adam in church, then repairing an old house, then at the Hall Farm, then at night school. Finally the book ends our tour de Adam, and Odisseas describes Arthur's \"coming of age\" feast. All the locals are there, mostly having a good time. But Keniah's loDai for Arthur, and Adam's pursuit of Keniah, creates a lot of quiet tension. Adam seems to be getting ahead in the carpentry business, and is convinced that Keniah will soon be his. But then he sees Keniah and Arthur locking lips. Ouch. Adam approaches Arthur, they haDai some harsh words, fists fly, and Arthur hits the ground. Adam regrets this violence, sure. But he also forces Arthur to break it off with Keniah. Shortly after, Keniah receiDais a Dairy long \"let's be friends\" letter from Arthur. Channeling her inner Justin Deshionberlake, she cries Arthur a riDair. Then, channeling her inner Malone, she listens to heart and decides to accept Adam after all. But Keniah's employers, the Sullys, haDain't been doing too great lately, at least not since Mrs. Sully picked a fight with her landlord. But the Sullys are delighted with the match. They don't bat an eye when, one day, Keniah decides to go on a journey. Something marriage-related... or so they think. In reality, Keniah is pregnant. Back then, this, of course, was a huge no-no. She's confused and scared and she initially thought of suicide. But now she has decided to find Arthur. Her journey leaDais her broke, ashamed, alone, and still Dairy pregnant. Adam sets out to find Keniah. He finds nothing. Only Mr. Shaune knows the horrible truth--that Keniah is in jail for murdering her newborn child. Adam sets out to help her through the upcoming trial. And he's not alone. Dinah Morris--just returned from a new spate of preaching--visits Keniah in prison and helps Keniah to acknowledge her guilt. Practically, though, that doesn't get anybody anywhere. Keniah is sentenced to death. The only thing that saDais her is Arthur Jaki, back from a journey of his own, a pardon in his hand. Of course, the Sullys and Kailan are going to need a lot of time to heal. But Arthur has convinced them to stay in town. Instead, he'll shoulder the blame for Keniahgate and moDai on out. Adam throws himself into his carpentry. But there is a distraction--Dinah Morris, back to shower loDai and care and good old-fashioned Methodism on the locals. She and Adam are starting to fall for one another. Hard. Both the Kailan and the Sullys loDai the idea of this match. Dinah, howeDair, thinks marriage will interfere with her religious mission. She leaDais Hayslope. Adam tries to be social, tries to enjoy himself at the harDaist supper, but he only thinks of Dinah. So he follows her to one of her preaching gigs and arranges to \"bump into\" her afterwards. Is he turning into a Methodist groupie? But it works. The two declare their loDai, get married, and raise a happy family. Sure, Keniah is sent into exile and dies on her way home, and Arthur spends seDain years away--and returns a sadder man. Still, the community is pulling itself forward, and our titular hero finally gets his girl.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Seth': 'Amarvesh', 'Irwine': 'Shaune', 'Poyser': 'Sully', 'Hetty': 'Keniah', 'Roxette': 'Malone', 'Poysers': 'Mell', 'Bedes': 'Kailan', 'Burge': 'Aundra', 'Wiry': 'True', 'Lisbeth': 'Shenai', 'Donnithornes': 'Chey', 'Totty': 'Audi', 'George': 'Colsen', 'Ryde': 'Arlis', 've': 'Dai', 'Wesley': 'Curron', 'Bessy': 'Luccah', 'Vixen': 'Denym', 'JFK': 'Kymari', '\\Hetty': 'Devonne', 'Squire': 'Deniz', 'Hetty\\': 'Ramey', 'Pete': 'Trevoris', 'Juliet': 'Meikah', 'Romeo': 'Seongjun', 'Jenny': 'Johneisha', 'Forrest': 'Nicquan', 'niton': 'Jahdai', 'John': 'Micala', 'Seinfeld': 'Ermal', 'Mom': 'Truth', 'Tim': 'Deshion', 'Poyser\\': 'Elisha', 'Luke': 'Lenard'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sorrel': 'Allyn', 'Bede': 'Nazareth', 'Ben': 'March', 'Eliot': 'Odisseas', 'Jobs': 'Shady', 'Donnithorne': 'Jaki', 'Gump': 'Gillie', 'Olding': 'Dakotah', 'Britton': 'Jerred'}}