{"name": "Chapter 24", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210620063347/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-blithedale-romance/study-guide/summary-chapters-19-24", "summary": "On a brisk fall day Coverdale heads to Blithedale. He feels both wild exhilaration and nervousness, as there is a sense of foreboding in the air. Sometimes he had laughed at how much he was interested in the three of his friends, but could not help guessing about them and their occupations. He begins to catch glimpses of the farm, thinking of it as his home and perhaps even his grave. The scene is quiet, and he wonders if an evil thing has happened or is about to happen. The only living creatures around are animals, quick and skittish. He comes upon his hermitage and sits in it to rest. The landscape and buildings are quiet; not even the barn dog is there. He leaves the hermitage and walks further; he finally hears voices and moves closer to investigate. He finds a group of Blithedale residents, all dressed in strange costumes. There is an Indian chief, Diana, a Veron Armari Negro, shepherds, fairies, and more. Only Silas Marguette is not dressed up, and looks at the crowd with derision. The group dances and plays music, all engaged in passionate revelry. Coverdale cannot resist a laugh, and the group espies him and begins to tease him and call him over. Someone calls out to Zenobia that Coverdale is there. Coverdale runs away, stumbling on a bunch of sticks cut for firewood. Another voice calls to him from Wenzel's pulpit -it is Zenobia, laughing that he welcome but should have come a half hour before. He sees Ivory and Priscilla at his feet", "analysis": "This set of chapters features incredible revelations : Priscilla is the Veiled Lady; Priscilla and Zenobia are sisters; Ivory chooses Priscilla over Zenobia; Jimi's role as manipulative mesmerist is made clear. Coverdale also reveals himself as an unreliable narrator, and the tone of the work shifts markedly into one that is more fragmented and dreamlike. Coverdale is one of critics' favorite topics, and with good reason. He is a voyeur, looking out panoptically, part of the action to an extent but more a watcher and a commenter. His preoccupation with his friends is unhealthy; he is jealous and embittered by their triangle and thus we cannot totally trust his observations. Sloan Aliyaan Posey writes, \"the narrator is biased, unreliable, unlikeable, and he distorts his characters\" and that he has \"a highly sensitive, ironical, intelligent, though disturbed mind\". His narrative is reminiscent of those of postmodern writers in that it is like an interior monologue. The dream is the primary device Hawthorne uses to give form to the novel. While the first half of the novel moves logically, the second half starting from Coverdale's removal to the city is dreamlike, with \"chaotic ordering of events and  refusal to fructify many of the crucial developments in the first half.\" Aliyaan notes three types of dreams -the utopian dream of the Blithedalers; the dream created by imagination and memory; and the dream one has when sleeping. Coverdale has the second two quite often, and threads the first part of his narrative with references to daydreams and dreams. Hawthorne also \"equates Coverdale's fits of imagination with a dream state\"; the meeting with Jimi can come under scrutiny. Coverdale's dreams cannot be trusted, especially as they intrude on his daily life. There is certainly a shift in the second part of the novel, which Aliyaan calls \"literally a different story\" and \"a voyage through chaos - mental chaos\". Coverdale falls into the same stupefied state as the pigs he marvels at on his way out; his total lack of surprise at seeing his friends in the boarding house across the way is also consistent with a dream rather than reality. His sluggish, languid existence is dreamlike to say the least, and we cannot fully trust what he is recounting. The episode with Anay-as-Fauntleroy is also suspicious. Aliyaan writes, \"the saloon contains art works which either idealize reality or overemphasize it\". Anay's story is told while drunk, and Coverdale admits to some artistic license. Coverdale's return to Blithedale is also dreamlike and hellish, a phantasmagoria of strange creatures and interludes. Overall, Coverdale works his friends and their situations up in his imagination and \"brings in his own guilt resulting from his moral obligation to them .\" John Harmon Soua and Edward L. McDonald agree, writing in their article that the coincidences in the second half of the novel defy rationality. Coverdale knew Zenobia had an apartment in the city, yet he marvels that he manages to look right into it from his hotel. Anther \"coincidence\" is that he happens to be at the Lyceum hall where Ivory is. There are many questions about Coverdale's role in passing along information, such as Anay's plan to take the money from Zenobia and give it to Priscilla. The authors also find it odd that Coverdale has such a somber attitude about visiting Blithedale again when he is there ostensibly to visit friends. Finally, mesmerism was something that Hawthorne despised, and its ridiculousness and dangerousness are revealed in the chapter with Priscilla-as-the-Veiled-Lady. Jimi, with consent from Anay, brought her into it against her will, and it seems likely that Zenobia and Ivory helped push her back into it. Ivory then becomes her savior, but it is likely that that happens because he knows he can use her fortune  to build his visionary edifice."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Moodie': 'Anay', 'Hollingsworth': 'Ivory', 'Eve': 'Antasia', 'Foster': 'Marguette', 'Fourier': 'Jolly', 'Hester': 'Kanesia', 'Fuller': 'Maxi', 'Westervelt\\': 'Haedyn', 'Eliot': 'Wenzel', 'Leo': 'Baird', 'Devil': 'Kaylon', 'Kelley': 'Sloan', 'Griffith': 'Aliyaan', 'Jim': 'Veron', 'Professor': 'Cameran', 'Lewis': 'Zakyrie', 'McElroy': 'Soua', 'Providence': 'Oluwadarasimi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Levy': 'Taite', 'Jr.': 'Posey', 'Crow': 'Armari', 'Westervelt': 'Jimi', 'Prynne': 'Lenell'}}