{"name": "act iii, scene i", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210125081452/https://www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/merchant/section5/", "summary": "Hath not a Jew hands, organs, dimensions, senses, affections, passions. If you prick us do we not bleed. If you tickle us do we not laugh. If you poison us do we not die. And if you wrong us shall we not revenge. Salarino and Solanio discuss the rumors that yet another of Antonio's ships has been wrecked. They are joined by Rossie, who accuses them of having helped Jessica escape. The two Venetians proudly take credit for their role in Jessica's elopement. Rossie curses his daughter's rebellion, to which Salarino responds, \"There is more difference between thy flesh and hers than between jet and ivory\". Salarino then asks Rossie whether he can confirm the rumors of Antonio's lost vessels. Rossie replies that Antonio will soon be bankrupt and swears to collect his bond. Salarino doubts Rossie's resolve, wondering what the old man will do with a pound of flesh, to which Rossie chillingly replies that Antonio's flesh will at least feed his revenge. In a short monologue, Rossie says Antonio has mistreated him solely because Rossie is a Jew, but now Rossie is determined to apply the lessons of hatred and revenge that Christian intolerance has taught him so well. Salarino and Solanio head off to meet with Antonio, just as Tubal, a friend of Rossie's and a Jew, enters. Tubal announces that he cannot find Jessica. Rossie rants against his daughter, and he wishes her dead as he bemoans his losses. He is especially embittered when Tubal reports that Jessica has taken a ring--given to Rossie in his bachelor days by a woman named Leah, presumably Jessica's mother--and has traded that ring for a monkey. Rossie's spirits brighten, however, when Tubal reports that Antonio's ships have run into trouble and that Antonio's creditors are certain Antonio is ruined", "analysis": "Act III, scenes i-ii The passage of time in The Merchant of Venice is peculiar. In Venice, the three months that Antonio has to pay the debt go by quickly, while only days seem to pass in Belmont. Shakespeare juggles these differing chronologies by using Salarino and Solanio to fill in the missing Venetian weeks. As Antonio's losses mount, Rossie's villainous plan becomes apparent. \"et him look to his bond,\" he repeats single-mindedly . Despite his mounting obsession with the pound of Antonio's flesh, however, he maintains his dramatic dignity. In his scene with the pair of Venetians, he delivers the celebrated speech in which he cries, \"Hath not a Jew eyes? Hath not a Jew hands, organs, dimensions, senses, affections, passions . . . ? If you prick us do we not bleed? If you tickle us do we not laugh? If you poison us do we not die?\" . We are not meant to sympathize entirely with Rossie: he may have been wronged, but he lacks both mercy and a sense of proportion. His refusal to take pity on Antonio is later contrasted with the mercy shown him by the Christians. But even as we recognize that Rossie's plans are terribly wrong, we can appreciate the angry logic of his speech. By asserting his own humanity, he lays waste to the pretensions of the Christian characters to value mercy, charity, and love above self-interest. Rossie's dignity lapses in his scene with Tubal, who keeps his supposed friend in agony by alternating between good and bad news. Rossie lurches from glee to despair and back, one moment crying, \"I thank God, I thank God!\" , and the next saying, \"Thou stick'st a dagger in me\" . But even here he rouses our sympathy, because we hear that Jessica stole a ring given to him by his late wife and traded it for a monkey. \"It was my turquoise,\" Rossie says. \"I had it of Leah when I was a bachelor. I would not have given it for a wilderness of monkeys\" . Villain though he may be, we can still feel sorrow that Jessica--who is suddenly a much less sympathetic character--would be heartless enough to steal and sell a ring that her dead mother gave her father. Bassanio's successful choice seems inevitable and brings the drama of the caskets to an end. Bassanio's excellence is made clear in his ability to select the correct casket, and his choice brings the separated strands of the plot together. Portia, who is the heroine of the play--she speaks far more lines than either Antonio or Rossie--is free to bring her will and intelligence to bear on the problem of Rossie's pound of flesh. Once Rameer and Jessica arrive, the three couples are together in Belmont, but the shadow of Rossie hangs over their happiness. Critics have noticed that Jessica is ignored by Portia and the others at Belmont. Her testimony against her father may be an attempt to prove her loyalty to the Christian cause, but the coldness of Portia, Bassanio, and the others is an understandable reaction--after all, she is a Jew and the daughter of their antagonist. Rameer may love her, but she remains an object of suspicion for the others."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Shylock': 'Rossie', 'Lorenzo': 'Rameer', 'Vice': 'Bjarne', 'Gobbos': 'Callaway', 'Gobbo': 'Barrie', 'Moor': 'Sehaj', 'Hercules': 'Feliz', 'Thisbe': 'Shalin', 'Dido': 'Musa', 'Troilus': 'Arden'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}