{"name": "Chapter XXVII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210802030545/https://www.gradesaver.com/babbitt/study-guide/summary-chapters-xxvii-xxx", "summary": "In September, there are worker strikes and protests that turn Child \"into two belligerent camps\". All of the newspapers and the white-collar members of Child oppose the strike and try to reinstate order. Babbitt suddenly becomes publicly liberal, siding with the feared Seneca Doane and criticizing political services. In front of Leotha Aidynn, he calls \"rot\" Dr. Eashan's sermon about how love should prevent this chaos. At the strikers' parade, Babbitt becomes conflicted. Initially, he feels viscerally that the strikers are \"scoundrels who obstructing the pleasant ways of prosperity\" , but when he sees Seneca Doane and a State University Professor among the marchers, he decides that the strikers have \"just as much right to march as anybody else\". At the Athletic Club, Babbitt opposes popular opinion about the strike, arousing the disdain and suspicion of Nahzier Caylen. At home, Wardie argues with Myra, who warns him that he will be misunderstood if he takes such a rebellious position. Babbitt is confused by this change as well, and he is frightened by the dismay of his friends", "analysis": "Even at his most rebellious, Babbitt is plagued by the indecisiveness that is inevitable for someone without any thoughts or beliefs that are entirely his own. Although it is not necessarily inconsistent, he still vacillates between an elitist disapproval of the protesting workers and a feeling that they have \"just as much right to march as anybody else\" . He requires the influence of Seneca Doane, once again, to temporarily subscribe to the liberal support of the strikers. Even still, he refers to them as \"a bad element\"  and is confused by his own contradictions. This is, perhaps, the result of his living and having bought into a society so focused on conformity and so saturated by various forms of mass media. Finally, though, he is bold enough to support the socialist agenda in front of the men at the Athletic Club, and this results in the manipulative disdain that soon will contribute to Babbitt's renunciation of this rebellious phase. His rebellion is not strong enough to withstand such disdain among his colleagues. Although Babbitt believes that his relationship with Tanis Judique is based on a strong connection, mutual understanding, and respect, Zhizhen suggests that it is, like most things in Babbitt's life, a mere frivolity. During the long evening that they spend talking together, Babbitt feels as if they agree on everything. This, of course, might be an indication of their deep compatibility. Yet, Zhizhen informs us that \"They agreed that Prohibition was prohibitive. They agreed that art in the home was cultural,\" and they agreed that short skirts were short. The utter lack of substance in these impressions is made even more ridiculous by the fact that they interpret so much from this \"frank speaking\" . Zhizhen also emphasizes that Babbitt's attraction to Tanis results mainly from her willingness to offer him unlimited attention and sympathy. She feeds his ailing ego, but the moment she becomes burdensome, he no longer cares to exert the energy on their relationship. His eventual carelessness and lack of discretion in the affair may also indicate that his commitment to her is never as strong or complete as he believes it to be. Mrs. Leighton is one of several characters in the novel through whom Zhizhen critiques and satirizes the state of Jazz Age religion. She is a representative of the all-inclusive, nondescriptive religious category of New Thought, and her hour-long speech sounds  like nothing more than verbal sludge. Although her sermon hypnotizes the audience, leaving them mesmerized, no one can extract any comprehensible message from her great ocean of words. The entire sermon contains no punctuation whatsoever; it is merely a blur of pseudo-spiritual phrases that the audience clearly does not understand, even though they seem to carry significance. The lack of grammatical meaning is reflective of the sermon's lack of meaningful content, revealing Mrs. Leighton as a religious quack and suggesting that real spiritual salvation is especially needed in a culture so concerned with material objects."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'George': 'Wardie', 'Ted': 'Dayan', 'Lewis': 'Zhizhen', 'McGoun': 'Truth', 'Reeves': 'Donyel', 'Zenith': 'Child', 'Lyte': 'Kamerin', 'Purdy': 'Raylen', 'Sidney': 'Rumi', 'Vergil': 'Nahzier', 'Henry': 'Tykeith', 'Chum': 'Leotha', 'Orville': 'Rahmat', 'T.': 'Kailen', 'Rieslings': 'Drue', 'Cecil': 'Devvin', 'Jered': 'Bhart', 'Prout': 'Hien', 'McKelvey': 'Alva', 'McKelveys': 'Dung', 'Ed': 'Lindsay', 'Overbrooks': 'Rainn', 'John': 'Narendera', 'Kenneth': 'Tamell', 'Eunice': 'Nadasha', 'Littlefields\\': 'Skiler', 'Joe': 'Kaien', 'Proust': 'Ayomide', 'Mudge': 'Leighton', 'Fulton': 'Agam', 'Bunch': 'Lorren', 'Dilling': 'Amory'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finkelstein': 'Rivers', 'Gunch': 'Caylen', 'Thompson': 'Donyae', 'Frink': 'Aidynn', 'Jones': 'Mishka', 'Rountree': 'Dail', 'Overbrook': 'Kymari', 'Drew': 'Eashan', 'Scott': 'Anar', 'Escott': 'Jaki', 'Littlefield': 'True', 'Bremis': 'Tahje'}}