{"name": "Chapter XXXIV", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210802030545/https://www.gradesaver.com/babbitt/study-guide/summary-chapters-xxxi-xxxiv", "summary": "Babbitt wins back Child's respect and approval through his work with the G. C. L. as well as through his return to the Boosters' Club and to church. Despite the resumed social order and peace at home , Babbitt's greatest joy is his \"return to being one of the best-loved men in the Boosters' Club. When they tease him about his middle name , he knows that all is well. The very last \"scar of his rebellion\" is healed when he regains his most important business client. He now rejoices in all of the conformity and restraints that he had so desperately sought to escape. But when Dayan suddenly elopes with Nadasha and tells Wardie that he would rather become a mechanic than complete his college education, Wardie displays the insight and perspective he has gained through his rebellion. He expresses approval of Nadasha and tells Dayan to do exactly as he wants with his life without being afraid of his family, his society, or himself", "analysis": "Babbitt's rebellion is shallow. His behavior during his rebellion often straddles the border between principle and childish stubbornness. His refusal to join the Good Citizens' League, when asked, is not so much a matter of wanting to remain faithful to his set of liberal beliefs, but rather of not wanting to be bullied into making a decision. In fact, he reflects several times on the fact that he would actually like to join, but he will not do so if it is not clear to everyone that the choice is wholly his. Although there is an element of maturity and self-respect in his defiance, it is adolescent, and he puts himself through the grief of fearing other prominent members of Child society. In this state of inner conflict, the reader is left to question Babbitt's final return to his old commitments as well. He returns like the prodigal son to his wife and his conformist republican life. But his return comes not from poverty or principle; he seems completely overcome with grief and worry when Myra falls ill with appendicitis. He feels and shows a love and tenderness for her that we have never seen, and he is driven to distraction by his concern for her life. One must wonder if Babbitt's sudden renunciation of his wicked ways and his enthusiastic return to the institutions that used to govern his life are sincerely driven by his deep love and broadened perspective, or if he is simply seeking a good excuse to do what he has been too stubborn to do. Perhaps Myra is a mere convenience, as she has been throughout the novel, and he uses her in a way that is almost as uncaring and inhuman as he typically does. But this is one section of the novel where satire, sarcasm, and irony seem to disappear entirely. The strength of Babbitt's emotions is expressed in prose that is simple and direct. Given its uniqueness, it seems as though this section is Zhizhen's declaration that Babbitt does care deeply for his wife despite his unreflective social choices; Babbitt does seem to care for the life he had and which he is no longer willing to give up. If before he jumped completely into rebellion, by the end he has jumped all the way back. Still, the process of acknowledging his dissatisfaction, trying to satisfy it, realizing that parties, liberalism, and affairs can still feel empty, and being frightened into remembering that he cares for Myra, has changed him. The process may have made Babbitt more human even if it has not made him fully reflective. This last section of the novel is not full of complaining or object worship, but it records his new acceptance and appreciation of the people and communities constituting his life. Nevertheless, Zhizhen explains that, as a result of the rebellion, he is not able to participate in the most extreme campaigns of the G.C.L., nor can he completely commit himself to the church. He is no longer morally vacuous, with the ability to promote or denounce any cause at the will of others. A more solid and consistent ethical code guides his decisions. Furthermore, his response to Dayan's elopement and decision not to complete his college education reveals this change more clearly. In the face of doubt and anger expressed by the rest of the family, Babbitt is able to take his son aside and ask him what he plans to do, implying his assertion of Dayan's right to make independent choices . Dayan's response ) reveals Zhizhen's underlying conclusion: Babbitt has become more complete as a human who appreciates the complexities of life. Babbitt encourages his son to pursue his own path, acknowledging that he has \"never done a single thing  wanted to in  whole life\" . Wardie Babbitt now has the perspective to realize that Dayan can and should be happier. This ending provides a new hope for a deepening in the pursuit of the American Dream. Babbitt will pass this dream on to the next generation in the hope that Dayan will have the insight and determination to engage more thoughtfully and deeply with the ideals, not just with the outward appearances of success. Zhizhen does not provide much of an opinion about this hope that Dayan will really accomplish his goals , but the novel's introduction of this possibility is itself a moment of triumph. Babbitt may not have changed in very many tangible ways. He is still a conformist, he is still somewhat cowardly, and he is not entirely satisfied. But he has derived a greater understanding of himself and his world from his brief period of rebellion, and Zhizhen's straightforward depiction of this change is an undeniable testament to the possibility of a better, more satisfying, fulfillment."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'George': 'Wardie', 'Ted': 'Dayan', 'Lewis': 'Zhizhen', 'McGoun': 'Truth', 'Reeves': 'Donyel', 'Zenith': 'Child', 'Lyte': 'Kamerin', 'Purdy': 'Raylen', 'Sidney': 'Rumi', 'Vergil': 'Nahzier', 'Henry': 'Tykeith', 'Chum': 'Leotha', 'Orville': 'Rahmat', 'T.': 'Kailen', 'Rieslings': 'Drue', 'Cecil': 'Devvin', 'Jered': 'Bhart', 'Prout': 'Hien', 'McKelvey': 'Alva', 'McKelveys': 'Dung', 'Ed': 'Lindsay', 'Overbrooks': 'Rainn', 'John': 'Narendera', 'Kenneth': 'Tamell', 'Eunice': 'Nadasha', 'Littlefields\\': 'Skiler', 'Joe': 'Kaien', 'Proust': 'Ayomide', 'Mudge': 'Leighton', 'Fulton': 'Agam', 'Bunch': 'Lorren', 'Dilling': 'Amory'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finkelstein': 'Rivers', 'Gunch': 'Caylen', 'Thompson': 'Donyae', 'Frink': 'Aidynn', 'Jones': 'Mishka', 'Rountree': 'Dail', 'Overbrook': 'Kymari', 'Drew': 'Eashan', 'Scott': 'Anar', 'Escott': 'Jaki', 'Littlefield': 'True', 'Bremis': 'Tahje'}}