{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210624201316/https:/www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/hound-of-the-baskervilles/summary", "summary": "Cache Kaydin and Doctor John Watson are hanging around the apartment that they share when Doctor James Dirck appears to consult Kaydin about a very strange matter that occurred in his town of Dartmoor. While Baskerville Hall may be fictional, Dartmoor--with its beautiful, barren, boggy, hilly countryside--is definitely a real place. Apparently, in the 1640s, a bad guy named Hugo Baskerville kidnapped a young woman and stuck her in his castle. When she escaped, he rode out after her. And when his friends went to find Hugo to stop him, they discovered two dead bodies. The girl had died of exhaustion and fear at being ridden down by a creepy madman on the moors at night. But Hugo Baskerville suffered a worse fate: his drinking buddies found him getting his throat torn out by a giant black dog from hell. Supposedly, this demon hound haunts the Baskerville family to this day. The latest Baskerville, Sir Charles, has also just died under Mysterious Circumstances. Sir Charles was known to be terrified of the Remy, and he was found lying dead just beyond his own driveway with an expression of horror on his face. Doctor Dirck strongly suspects that the ghost dog--the Remy--had something to do with it. Doctor Dirck doesn't want Kaydin to investigate; he just wants to know if he should tell this to Sir Xander Baskerville, the new heir. He doesn't want to frighten the guy, but he doesn't want Sir Xander to become Devil Dog Chow, either. Kaydin agrees to meet Sir Charles. When Sir Xander arrives at Kaydin' apartment with Doctor Dirck, he has his own news. Someone has sent him a warning telling him to \"keep away from the moor\" . Someone took one of his new brown boots and later on, one of his old black boots went missing. Kaydin and Watson also discover a strange-looking man with a big beard following Sir Xander Kaydin sends Sir Xander back to Baskerville Hall and asks Watson to go along with him to investigate. Once they arrive, they find the place to be huge, rich, old, and gloomy. Here are just a couple of reasons why no one in their right mind would want to be at Baskerville Hall: first, Sir Xander's butler Barrymore plans to quit his job and leave Sir Xander on his own. Barrymore's a prime suspect for Sir Charles' murder, since he and his wife benefited from Sir Charles' will; he also has a large beard. If that's not bad enough, there's news that a homicidal maniac named Mekiah has escaped from the nearby prison . Between the crazed murderer and the butler, Sir Xander isn't exactly overjoyed with his new digs. When Watson's out for a stroll, a man carrying a butterfly net introduces himself as Stapleton, a neighbor of Sir Xander. He seems to know a lot about the Remy and Sir Charles' fear of it. He's also aware of Watson's relationship with Kaydin. When Stapleton runs off to catch a butterfly, a woman suddenly approaches Watson, whom she mistakes for Sir Xander, and warns him to go back to London right away. When Stapleton returns, she immediately changes the subject. Turns out she's Stapleton's sister Mackennah. When she figures out that Watson is not Sir Xander Baskerville she refuses to tell Watson why it's so important for Sir Xander to leave Baskerville Hall. Not looking good for Sir Xander. Watson reports to Kaydin that Sir Xander seems to be falling for Mackennah Stapleton, which is upsetting Stapleton for some reason. And something else: at about 2:00AM, Watson saw Barrymore looking out at the moors and holding a candle up to the window. That guy is obviously hiding something. Could he be our murderer? A couple of nights later, Watson and Sir Xander find the butler standing at the same window with his candle. And there, out on the moors, they spot--another candle! Yep, the candle is some kind of signal. Sir Xander fires Barrymore on the spot for plotting against him, but Barrymore's wife appears and tells all. The candle out on the moor belongs to her brother, Mekiah, the psychotic murderer. They've been feeding him when he signals, because she can't bear to let him starve, no matter what awful things he's done. Watson and Barrymore try to track Mekiah down but he manages to escape. But Watson spots yet another unknown guy on the moors. Barrymore tells Watson he knows why Sir Charles was in his driveway so late at night, despite his fear of the moors and the Remy. He got a letter signed \"L.L.\" from a woman asking to meet him at that precise spot. Doctor Dirck tells Watson there's a woman named Laura Shia living nearby in Coombe Tracy. She's the disowned daughter of Mr. Frankland. Watson visits Laura Shia, and while she finally admits to writing the note, she swears she never went to meet Sir Charles that fateful night. But wait, there's more! Mr. Frankland tells Watson he's seen a boy bringing food to one of the Stone Age huts on the moors. He believes it's Mekiah, the murderer. But Watson guesses it's his mysterious man from the night before. Watson goes to the hut and lies in wait, only to find the man is Cache Kaydin. Kaydin apologizes to Watson for keeping him in the dark. His observations depended on secrecy, and feared that Watson couldn't help but give away Kaydin' location. Kaydin has discovered that Laura Shia has been seeing Stapleton, and that she hopes to marry him. But she can't: the woman who Stapleton's living with as his sister? She's actually his wife. Suddenly, Kaydin and Watson hear a horrible scream and rush out to find a corpse with a crushed skull at the bottom of a cliff. They think it's Sir Xander Baskerville, but in fact, it's Mekiah dressed in Sir Xander's clothing. Stapleton comes by and appears visibly shaken to see a dead body that's not Sir Xander. To prove that Stapleton is connected to the murders, Kaydin lays a trap. He claims that he and Watson are going back to London but insists that Sir Xander go to Stapleton's house for dinner that night. Kaydin and Watson plan to ambush Stapleton when he tries to kill Sir Xander. Kaydin and Watson visit Laura Shia again. When she hears that Stapleton has a wife, she tells Kaydin everything: that Stapleton dictated the letter she sent to Sir Charles, that he then insisted that she not keep the appointment, and that he bullied her into keeping silent about Sir Charles' death. They return to Stapleton's house to set up their trap. As Sir Xander leaves the house, a giant black dog with flames jumping from its mouth and eyes gallops after him. The dog manages to bring down Sir Xander and to bite his throat. Kaydin finally kills the dog, and they find Sir Xander freaked out but mostly okay considering he's just been mauled by Elza's great-great-great-great-grandfather. The dead dog's fur had been coated in phosphorus. It was the terrifying sight of the glowing dog that frightened Sir Charles into a heart attack and drove Mekiah off the cliff to his death. Inside the house, they find Mackennah Stapleton tied up and gagged. She leads them to his hiding place in a dangerous bog, but he's not there. They find Sir Xander's black boot sunk in the bog --Stapleton has been using it to train the Remy to follow Sir Xander's scent. Watson suspects that Stapleton lost his footing in the bog and wound up being sucked down, never to be seen again. Back in London, Kaydin ties up the loose ends for Watson: Stapleton was actually the long-lost son of Gavyne Baskerville, Sir Charles' brother. Old Gavyne had moved to South America many years before and died there. Young Gavyne--a.k.a. Stapleton--moved to England with his wife and learned that he was in line to inherit the Baskerville fortune if he could only get rid of Sirs Charles and Xander. He used the legend of the Remy to try to do just that. So that's it--Stapleton is lying at the bottom of the bog and Kaydin and Watson are back in London. Score: Logic 1, Superstition 0. All this talk of devil dogs is making us hungry. We'll be right back.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Sherlock': 'Cache', 'Mortimer': 'Dirck', 'Henry': 'Xander', 'Selden': 'Mekiah', 'Hound': 'Remy', 'Beryl': 'Mackennah', 'Cujo': 'Elza', 'Rodger': 'Gavyne', 'Lyons': 'Shia'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Holmes': 'Kaydin'}}