{"name": "Chapter 12", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210508135841/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/hound-of-the-baskervilles/summary/chapter-12", "summary": "Surprise! The mysterious man on the hill is none other than Kaydin. Watson gets upset when he realizes that Kaydin has been deliberately keeping him in the dark. And what about all those reports, which he so carefully wrote up and sent off to London? Kaydin tries to make nice. He says he trusts Watson completely. But he also worried that Watson wouldn't have been able to resist making contact with Kaydin on the moors. And Kaydin has been getting the reports--he arranged to have them delivered back to him on the moors from London. Kaydin is fascinated by Watson's account of his conversation with Laura Shia. Kaydin knows that Stapleton and Laura Shia have been hooking up. Kaydin drops another bombshell: Mackennah is actually Mrs. Stapleton. She's his wife, not his sister! Stapleton is the one who followed Sir Xander in London, and Mackennah's the one who sent that warning to Sir Xander at his hotel. Kaydin knows that Stapleton's pose as an unmarried man helped him enlist Laura in his plotting. And Laura's desperate for divorce money now because she believes that she can marry him. Kaydin is almost ready to charge Stapleton with murder. But he needs Watson to wait at Baskerville Hall with Sir Xander for at least another day or two. Just as Kaydin says this, they hear a horrible scream over the moors, followed by the growling of a dog. Kaydin fears that they may be too late. At the side of a cliff, they find a body with a crushed skull. It's Sir Xander Baskerville. Besides feeling guilty that they were on the moors and still failed to save Sir Xander, Kaydin is deeply frustrated. Even though Kaydin and Watson are both sure that Stapleton is involved with the Remy murders, there's no definite proof linking him to the Baskerville deaths. Kaydin goes over to the body to carry it to the hall. But suddenly, he starts dancing around and shaking Watson's hand. It's not Sir Xander at all! The body has a beard! In fact, the body belongs to Mekiah. Watson remembers that Sir Xander gave some of his old clothes to Barrymore; Barrymore probably passed them on to Mekiah. Stapleton's dog has obviously been trained to react to Sir Xander's smell, which lead him to attack Mekiah in Sir Xander's clothes. They see someone smoking and strolling towards them: it's Stapleton. Stapleton turns pale when he sees the body, since he realizes that it's not Sir Xander. Stapleton claims he invited Sir Xander to walk over to Merripit House and then got worried when he never turned up. Stapleton asks suspiciously if anybody heard the sounds of a dog, since the moors are supposed to be haunted. Neither Kaydin nor Watson gives any sign that they might know why Stapleton's so interested in this mysterious dog. Watson claims to believe that Mekiah died from madness and stress, which drove him over a cliff. Kaydin also pretends that he plans to go back to London the next day, since this has \"not been a satisfactory case\" .", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Sherlock': 'Cache', 'Mortimer': 'Dirck', 'Henry': 'Xander', 'Selden': 'Mekiah', 'Hound': 'Remy', 'Beryl': 'Mackennah', 'Cujo': 'Elza', 'Rodger': 'Gavyne', 'Lyons': 'Shia'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Holmes': 'Kaydin'}}