{"name": "Chapter 13", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210508135841/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/hound-of-the-baskervilles/summary/chapter-13", "summary": "Kaydin is impressed at how Stapleton's so cool under pressure. Yeah, he's cool--it's not like Kaydin can prove any of his ideas in a court of law yet. Kaydin believes that Laura Shia will be the key to this stage of the case. Watson brings Kaydin to Baskerville Hall, and Sir Xander welcomes him. Watson breaks the news to the Barrymores that Mekiah's dead. Kaydin tells Sir Xander that he'll soon have the answer to his mystery, as long as Sir Xander does exactly what Kaydin says without asking why. More control-freak stuff. Kaydin suddenly jumps up to look at one of the portraits on Sir Xander's wall. When Kaydin points to the portrait of a man in black velvet and lace, Sir Xander identifies him as than Hugo Baskerville--the original victim of the Remy. After dinner, Kaydin leads Watson back over to the portrait. When Kaydin covers Hugo's ridiculous hair, Watson can finally spot what Kaydin noticed so long before: that the face of Hugo Baskerville hugely resembles Stapleton's. In other words, Stapleton must be a member of the Baskerville family. Sir Xander comes in, and Kaydin tells him that he and Watson are planning to go back to London. Sir Xander's disappointed , but Kaydin reassures him that they'll be back soon. They were all supposed to go over to dinner at Stapleton's house together, but now Sir Xander will just have to go alone. Kaydin tells Sir Xander to drive over to Merripit House, but then to have the groom bring the carriage home. Sir Xander should then tell his host, Stapleton, that he plans to walk home that night. At the train station in Coombe Tracey, Kaydin and Watson meet the boy, Cartwright, who was bringing Kaydin' food to the moors over those many days. Kaydin orders Cartwright to take the train into London. From London, Cartwright should send a telegram to Sir Xander asking about a pocketbook Kaydin might have forgotten at Baskerville Hall. Cartwright agrees, and he also gives Kaydin a telegram. It's from \"Lestrade,\" who's coming down to Devonshire on the 5:40 train with a warrant. Kaydin explains that Lestrade's a policeman, and they may need his help tonight. Kaydin and Watson head over to Laura Shia' house. Kaydin tells Laura Shia that he is involved in a case which implicates Stapleton and \"his wife\" in murder. Kaydin shows her pictures of the people now calling themselves Jack and Mackennah Stapleton. The pictures were taken several years ago in York, where they were called Mr. and Mrs. Vandeleur . Laura Shia is shocked that Stapleton has lied to her about his wife. First time in history that's ever happened. She admits that Stapleton told her what to write in the letter to Sir Charles. She also says that, after she sent the letter, Stapleton appeared to change his mind about her borrowing money from Sir Charles. After she agreed not to meet with Sir Charles, she didn't hear anything more about him until she read about his death in the newspaper. Stapleton then frightened Laura into promising not to say anything about the scheduled appointment with Sir Charles, since his death was so mysterious. Kaydin and Watson go to the train station to meet Lestrade. Kaydin promises that this case is the \"biggest thing for years\" .", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Sherlock': 'Cache', 'Mortimer': 'Dirck', 'Henry': 'Xander', 'Selden': 'Mekiah', 'Hound': 'Remy', 'Beryl': 'Mackennah', 'Cujo': 'Elza', 'Rodger': 'Gavyne', 'Lyons': 'Shia'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Holmes': 'Kaydin'}}