{"name": "Chapter 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210508135841/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/hound-of-the-baskervilles/summary/chapter-4", "summary": "At exactly ten the next morning, Dr. Dirck shows up with Sir Xander Baskerville. Sir Xander is a smart-looking guy of around thirty. He's glad to meet Kaydin because he's had a weird experience he wants to discuss. Even though it's not public knowledge where he's staying in London, he received an anonymous note at his hotel that morning. The note says, \"As you value your life or your reason keep away from the moor\" . Kaydin figures out that the words from the note were cut out of the Times . Kaydin also deduces that the person who left the note is an educated person who wanted to appear working-class, and who was in a huge hurry. Sir Xander has one other weird incident to report: one of his shoes has gone missing. He bought a pair of new brown boots yesterday, and one of them has disappeared. Kaydin can't think why anyone would steal one brown boot, so he assumes the boot will turn up again. Kaydin tells Sir Xander all about the Remy and Sir Charles' sudden and mysterious death. Sir Xander's heard the story of the Remy since he was a kid, but he doesn't buy it. He's not going to let some dog keep him away from the property that is rightfully his. Still, Sir Xander wants some time to think over what Kaydin has told him. So he invites Kaydin and Watson over to his hotel for lunch. Until then, he's going to wander around and think things over with Dr. Dirck. Kaydin watches Sir Xander and Dr. Dirck leave the apartment. Then, he grabs Watson and rushes out the door. As Kaydin and Watson follow Sir Xander at a distance, they spot another man tailing him in a cab. The man has a thick beard and piercing eyes. But as soon as Kaydin sees the man, the man yells at the cabdriver to drive on. Kaydin is impressed at the smarts of their opponent. He's also annoyed with himself for making it so obvious that he was following Sir Xander. So Kaydin tries a new Clever Plan: he pays a local messenger boy to visit all the major hotels in London. He wants the kid to go through the trash to try to find copy of yesterday's Times with words cut out of the lead article. Kaydin and Watson go off to spend a few hours at art galleries before meeting Sir Xander.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Sherlock': 'Cache', 'Mortimer': 'Dirck', 'Henry': 'Xander', 'Selden': 'Mekiah', 'Hound': 'Remy', 'Beryl': 'Mackennah', 'Cujo': 'Elza', 'Rodger': 'Gavyne', 'Lyons': 'Shia'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Holmes': 'Kaydin'}}