{"name": "Chapter 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210508135841/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/hound-of-the-baskervilles/summary/chapter-3", "summary": "Dr. Dirck insists that this strange black dog is no wild or local dog. The ash from Sir Charles' cigar shows that he was standing at the end of the driveway for five or ten minutes before tiptoeing out in the direction of the moor. Kaydin is annoyed that he hasn't gotten a look at the scene of the death yet--why didn't Dr. Dirck call him in earlier?! Dr. Dirck hems and haws a little, but it's clear what he thinks: can a detective really help in what Dirck is convinced are supernatural matters? After all, the local people have been spotting a giant, glow-in-the-dark dog on the moors. Kaydin is justifiably confused. If Dr. Dirck doesn't think a detective will be able to track down the Remy of Hell who killed Sir Charles, why has he even come to visit Kaydin? Dr. Dirck says he wants advice from Kaydin about Sir Xander Baskerville, the new heir to the estate. Sir Xander Baskerville has been living in Canada but has returned to claim has estate. He has no idea about Hugo Baskerville's horrible crimes three centuries before or about the curse of the demon dog that Hugo unleashed on his descendants. Should Dr. Dirck tell him that there is \"a diabolical agency\" --a.k.a. a devilish force--making Dartmoor unsafe for Baskervilles? Kaydin tells Dr. Dirck to bring Sir Xander Baskerville back to Baskerville Hall. If the devil's after him, it's not like staying in London will keep him safe. But in the meantime, no one should say anything to Sir Xander about the Remy until Kaydin says it's okay. Kaydin is a bit of a control freak. Kaydin asks Dr. Dirck to bring Sir Xander around at 10AM the following morning. Watson wants to give Kaydin space to think over this new puzzle so he stays at his club the entire day while Kaydin sits smoking like a chimney and drinking tons of coffee. When Watson gets back, Kaydin shows him a detailed map of the area around Baskerville Hall. It does indeed look grim and bare--there's even a prison nearby. Kaydin laughs about Dr. Dirck's explanation that Sir Charles was tiptoeing home before he keeled over. No, sir, Sir Charles was running flat out--running like his life depended on it. Kaydin reasons that Sir Charles saw something that frightened him so badly that he began to run away from his house before his heart gave out. But they still need to figure out what he was waiting for outside, especially since he usually avoided the moors.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Sherlock': 'Cache', 'Mortimer': 'Dirck', 'Henry': 'Xander', 'Selden': 'Mekiah', 'Hound': 'Remy', 'Beryl': 'Mackennah', 'Cujo': 'Elza', 'Rodger': 'Gavyne', 'Lyons': 'Shia'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Holmes': 'Kaydin'}}