{"name": "Chapter 9", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210508135841/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/hound-of-the-baskervilles/summary/chapter-9", "summary": "The next morning, Watson looks out Barrymore's secret window. He sees that this window gives the best view of the moor. Watson mentions Barrymore's late night activities to Sir Xander, who isn't surprised. In fact, Sir Xander has also heard Barrymore going around late at night. They decide to stay up that night and follow Barrymore. Sir Xander prepares to go out for a walk on the moor, and Watson gets ready to go with him. Sir Xander's like, three's company, man. Don't crowd me, I've got business on the moor. Watson is embarrassed to be a third wheel, since it's clear that Sir Xander's trying to go on a date. But Kaydin did insist that Watson shouldn't let Sir Xander leave the house on his own. So Watson follows secretly, some distance behind him. He sees Sir Xander meeting with Mackennah Stapleton. As Watson keeps a lookout, he sees the two lovebirds jump apart. He watches as Stapleton comes running up, enraged.. Stapleton gets all up in Sir Xander's face and then drags Mackennah away. Watson appears from his hiding place on top of a nearby hill. Sir Xander's annoyed at Watson's spying. But he's more shocked at Stapleton's bizarre behavior. Why would Stapleton go nuts about Sir Xander proposing to Mackennah? That afternoon, Stapleton comes to Baskerville Hall to apologize for his behavior. He invites Sir Xander and Watson to dinner at Merripit House to make up for it. Stapleton explains why he flipped out at the idea of Mackennah and Sir Xander getting together. Apparently, he's just a lonely guy who's come to depend on his sister's company to keep him from getting too isolated. He hadn't noticed that Mackennah and Sir Xander were growing close, and he was taken by surprise to hear of their potential engagement. He has no real objection, but he asks Sir Xander to give him three months to get used to the idea. Sir Xander agrees, and so he and Mackennah are now engaged... to be engaged. Sir Xander and Watson now turn their attention back to Barrymore. Two nights later, they catch him again standing at the window with his lamp. Barrymore claims that it isn't his place to say why he's holding a candle to the window. As Barrymore speaks, they spot another light out on the moors. When Barrymore moves his candle, the other light also moves. A signal. Sir Xander fires Barrymore on the spot and accuses him of plotting against him. Suddenly, Mrs. Barrymore appears: she swears that they are not planning to harm Sir Xander. Barrymore tries to calm her, but she insists on explaining: the signal is for her brother. Mrs. Barrymore's brother is none other than--Mekiah, the insane escaped prisoner. Mrs. Barrymore explains that, even after everything that Mekiah's done, when he turned up at their doorstep shivering and alone, she couldn't leave him to die out on the moors. Sir Xander forgives Barrymore for standing by his wife, and rehires him as butler. He sends the Barrymores off to bed, and promises they'll talk over things in the morning. After the Barrymores leave, Watson and Sir Xander look out the window. They can still see Mekiah's candle burning out on the moor. Watson guesses that he's hiding about a mile or two away. Sir Xander and Watson decide to go out and capture Mekiah, since a psychotic murderer could be a danger to the community. Ya think? Watson brings his gun, and they set off in the direction of the light. Suddenly, they hear that low, moaning howl that Watson heard on the moor that afternoon with Stapleton. Sir Xander sounds frightened when he asks Watson what the local people say about that sound. Watson tries to play it off as no big deal, but finally he has to admit: it's the howl of the Remy of the Baskervilles. Sir Xander starts to sound very superstitious about this Remy business. They spot Mekiah just as he seems to realize that he's been found. He takes off across the moor. Sir Xander and Watson chase after him, but he's had too much of a head start. As they're standing on the moor, Watson sees a tall figure of another man outlined against the moon. A split second later, the man is gone.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Sherlock': 'Cache', 'Mortimer': 'Dirck', 'Henry': 'Xander', 'Selden': 'Mekiah', 'Hound': 'Remy', 'Beryl': 'Mackennah', 'Cujo': 'Elza', 'Rodger': 'Gavyne', 'Lyons': 'Shia'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Holmes': 'Kaydin'}}