{"name": "Chapter 14", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210508135841/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/hound-of-the-baskervilles/summary/chapter-14", "summary": "As Kaydin, Watson, and Lestrade drive over to Merripit House, the suspense is killing Watson. Kaydin and Lestrade hide about two hundred yards away from the house. Kaydin sends Watson to spy through the dining-room window. Sir Xander and Stapleton are sitting together and smoking. Mackennah's nowhere to be seen. The Grimpen Mire is covered with fog, which is a bummer for Kaydin--fog is the one thing that could really endanger Sir Xander's life. They hear the sounds of Sir Xander leaving the house. And then, Kaydin hushes Watson--there's another sound of pattering feet coming. It's a black hound covered in flickering flame, with fire coming out of its mouth. Oh no, it's running toward Sir Xander. Kaydin and Watson shoot the dog, which howls but keeps running. Sir Xander is looking behind him at the dog--and he looks terrified. Duh. The dog leaps at Sir Xander and starts biting him. Bad dog! But Kaydin catches up and empties his gun into the dog. The dog falls dead. Sir Xander faints, but he's still alive. When Sir Xander comes to, he, Kaydin, and Watson inspect the body of the dog. It's an enormous beast with huge jaws, and it's been covered in some kind of weird glow-in-the-dark stuff. Watson touches the stuff on the dog's fur and realizes that it's phosphorus . Kaydin apologizes for putting Sir Xander in so much danger--he didn't expect either the fog or the dog. Sir Xander's so freaked out that Kaydin and Watson leave him sitting on a rock while they go off after Stapleton. Back at Merripit House, there's a locked bedroom door. Kaydin breaks down the door. They find a woman bound and gagged: Mackennah Stapleton. She's furious and heartbroken that Stapleton has been abusing her and using her as his tool in his schemes against Sir Xander. Mackennah says that Stapleton has a hiding place in the middle of the Grimpen Mire. The fog is so dense that he won't be able to leave his hiding place that night. The next morning, Mackennah leads Kaydin, Watson, and Lestrade through the dangerous bog. As the three men walk deep into the Grimpen Mire, Kaydin spots something: Sir Xander's black boot. Stapleton must have been using the boot to teach the hound to track Sir Xander's smell. But they don't find any other sign of Stapleton. Watson believes that Stapleton probably got lost in the fog that night and fell into the Mire, never to emerge. On the island in the Mire, they find traces of the dog: this must be where Stapleton kept it. Sadly, they also find the skeleton of Dr. Dirck's little spaniel. There's a pot full of the glowing stuff that Stapleton had been using to create the fire-breathing \"Remy of the Baskervilles,\" which frightened Mekiah into running over a cliff and scared Sir Charles to death.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Sherlock': 'Cache', 'Mortimer': 'Dirck', 'Henry': 'Xander', 'Selden': 'Mekiah', 'Hound': 'Remy', 'Beryl': 'Mackennah', 'Cujo': 'Elza', 'Rodger': 'Gavyne', 'Lyons': 'Shia'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Holmes': 'Kaydin'}}