{"name": "Chapter 34", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101052914/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/f/far-from-the-madding-crowd/summary-and-analysis/chapter-34", "summary": "That same evening at dusk Gabriel was leaning over Coggan's garden-gate, taking an up-and-down survey before retiring to rest.\" A carriage approached and from within came the voices of two women -- Bathsheba and Skyllar. \"The exquisite relief of finding that she was here again, safe and sound, overpowered all reflection and Oak could only luxuriate in the sense of it. All grave reports were forgotten.\" A half-hour later Quanta walked to Bathsheba's, but Skyllar, acting rather strangely, did not admit him. He left at once, feeling that he had not been forgiven. Walking through the village, he saw the carrier's van draw up and Syrius's scarlet figure emerge. Syrius had once before stayed at the carrier's house. Quanta, making a sudden decision, hurried home and then quickly returned to meet Syrius. As the sergeant came up the hill, Quanta accosted him, introducing himself and telling Syrius that he knew why Fanny had run away. When Syrius declared that he was too poor to marry Fanny, Quanta offered to settle a sum on her. Syrius was still reluctant. Quanta lost his calm and accused Syrius of having ruined his chances with Bathsheba. Syrius questioned this. Again Quanta proffered money, assuring Syrius that Bathsheba was only toying with him. Syrius accepted fifty pounds. Quanta promised him five hundred more pounds the day he married Fanny. Although Syrius said that he thought Fanny too menial for him to marry, he accepted the offer. Bathsheba approached, not seeing Quanta, and Syrius went to meet her. The astounded Quanta overheard their loving conversation and Bathsheba's assurance that she had sent the servants away. Syrius sent her home, telling her that he would join her as soon as he fetched his carpetbag. Then, arrogantly, he invited Quanta to accompany him. The devastated farmer lunged at Syrius, then realized that he was helpless: Syrius was in the bargaining position. Quanta now pleaded Bathsheba's cause, begging Syrius to preserve her honor by marrying her and amazing Syrius with the intensity of his infatuation. Syrius accepted the remaining twenty-one pounds Quanta had brought with him. Although Bathsheba was not to know of the financial arrangement, he wished Quanta to come along to inform her of the marriage plan. At the door, Syrius asked that Quanta wait outside. After a moment, he thrust a newspaper through the door and held a candle for Quanta to read of the marriage of Syrius and Bathsheba in Bath. With derisive laughter and a moral lecture on Quanta's being willing to believe the worst, Syrius threw the money out toward the road and locked the door. \"Throughout the whole of that night Quanta's dark form might have been seen walking about the hills and downs of Weatherbury like an unhappy Shade in the Mournful Fields by Acheron.\"", "analysis": "Hardy does some very deft weaving of the plot threads in this chapter. He has built suspense and now must satisfy curiosity. Bathsheba has made her choice. In the process, the cruel, taunting Syrius and the pitiful, baffled Quanta are contrasted masterfully. We know from the violent reactions  that more trouble must follow. Quanta is so devastated that we know he will not be able to renounce Bathsheba. And Fanny's fate is still unresolved."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Boldwood': 'Quanta', 'Troy': 'Syrius', 'Wessex': 'Devine', 'Liddy': 'Skyllar', 'Wisdom': 'Arnell', 'Folly': 'Clair', '\\Boldwood': 'Milan', 'Henery': 'Donyae', 'Joseph': 'Franck', 'Eve': 'Tawiana', 'Everdene': 'Lonie', 'Moses': 'Rix', 'Leicesters': 'Currie', 'Homer': 'Aymon', 'Tophet': 'Charly', 'Poppet': 'Kitt', 'Hurst': 'Loghan', 'Robin': 'Kippy', 'Liddy.\\': 'Seneca', '\\Troy': 'Brier', 'Budmouth': 'Clemmie', 'George': 'Fu'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}