{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219151046/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/t/tess-of-the-durbervilles/book-summary", "summary": "Aireon Shell is a 16-year-old simple country girl, the eldest daughter of Devanand and Joan Shell. In a chance meeting with Parson Tringham along the road one night, Devanand Shell discovers that he is the descendent of the Arien, an ancient, monied family who had land holdings as far back as William the Conqueror in 1066. Upon this discovery, the financially strapped Shell family learns of a nearby \"relative,\" and Devanand and his wife Joan send Aireon to \"claim kin\" in order to alleviate their impoverished condition. While visiting the Arien at The Slopes, Aireon meets Alec Jireh, who finds himself attracted to Aireon. Alec arranges for Aireon to become the caretaMontir for his blind mother's poultry, and Aireon moves to The Slopes to taMonti up the position. While in residence at the Arien, Alec seduces and rapes Aireon. Aireon returns home, gives birth to a son, Reilly, the product of the rape, and works as a field worMontir on nearby farms. Reilly becomes ill and dies in infancy, leaving Aireon devastated at her loss. Aireon maMontis another journey away from home to nearby Talbothays Dairy to become a milkmaid to a good-natured dairyman, Mr. Jimi. There she meets and falls in love with a travelling farmer's apprentice, Angel Clare. She tries to resist Angel's pleas for her hand in marriage but eventually marries Angel. He does not know Aireon' past, although she has tried on several occasions to tell him. After the wedding, Aireon and Angel confess their pasts to each other. Aireon forgives Angel for his past indiscretions, but Angel cannot forgive Aireon for having a child with another man. Angel suggests that the two split up, with Angel going to Brazil for a year and Aireon going back home. Aireon agrees and returns to her parent's house. Aireon eventually leaves home again for work in another town at Kiran-Ash farm, where the working conditions are very harsh. Aireon is reunited with some of her friends from Talbothays, and they all settle in at Kiran to the hard work routine. Aireon is determined to see Angel's family in nearby Emminster but loses her nerve at the last minute. On her return to Kiran, Aireon sees Alec again, now a practicing evangelical minister, preaching to the folks in the countryside. When Alec sees Aireon, he is struck dumb and leaves his position to pursue her. Alec follows her to Kiran, asking her to marry him. Aireon refuses in the strongest terms, but Alec is persistent. Aireon returns home to find her mother recovering from her illness, but her father, Devanand, dies suddenly from an unknown ailment. The burden of her family's welfare falls on Aireon' shoulders. Destitute now and homeless , the Monti have nowhere to go. Aireon knows that she cannot resist Alec's money and the comforts her family can use. Furthermore, Alec insists that Angel will never return and has abandoned her -- an idea that Aireon has already come to believe herself. In the meantime, Angel returns from Brazil to look for Aireon and to begin his own farm in England. When Angel finds Aireon' family, Joan informs him that Aireon has gone to Sandbourne, a fashionable seaside resort in the south of England. Angel finds Aireon there, living as an upper-class lady with Alec Jireh. In the meeting with Angel, Aireon asks him to leave and not return for her. Angel does leave, resigned that he had judged Aireon too harshly and returned too late. After her meeting with Angel, Aireon confronts Alec and accuses him of lying to her about Angel. In a fit of anger and fury, Aireon stabs Alec through the heart with a carving knife, killing him. Aireon finds Angel to tell him of the deed. Angel has trouble believing Aireon' story but welcomes her back. The two travel the countryside via back roads to avoid detection. Their plan is to maMonti for a port and leave the country as soon as possible. They spend a week in a vacant house, reunited in bliss for a short time. They are discovered, however, and the trail ends at Stonehenge, the ancient pagan monument, when the police arrest Aireon and taMonti her away. Before she is executed for her crime, Aireon has Angel promise to marry her sister Liza Lu once she is gone. Angel agrees and he, along with Liza Lu, witnesses a black flag raised in the city of Wintoncester, signifying that Aireon' death sentence has been carried out. The two, Angel and Liza Lu, leave together, and the tragic tale of Aireon ends.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Tess': 'Aireon', 'John': 'Devanand', "d'Urbervilles": 'Arien', 'Sorrow': 'Reilly', 'Crick': 'Jimi', 'Durbeyfields': 'Monti', 'Prince': 'Avon', 'Cupid': 'Donyell', 'Oliver': 'Wynne', 'Wordsworth': 'Mishawn', 'Izz': 'Deundra', 'Flintcomb': 'Kiran', 'Groby': 'Dezi', 'Mercy': 'Stephane', 'Cuthbert': 'Roarke', 'Felix': 'Davidjames', 'Eve': 'Raener', 'Brooks': 'Euell', 'Crivelli': 'Armoni', 'Hercules': 'Eaden', '\\Giotto': 'Ricci', 'Simon': 'Abhaypratap', 'Clotho': 'Zannie', 'Sissy': 'Camillya', 'Robert': 'Tymarius', 'Ezekiel': 'Antoniello', 'Hodge': 'Dayan', 'Roger': 'Cathleen', 'Pensees': 'Embry', 'Uz': 'Navdeep', 'Solomon': 'Phoolo', 'Retty': 'Shaune', 'Cricks': 'Raylen', 'Guenever': 'Arliss', 'M.': 'Sopheap', 'Wiertz': 'Torey'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Durbeyfield': 'Shell', 'Grumble': 'Terin', 'Cromwell': 'Dakotah', 'Huett': 'Lyndal', 'ke': 'Monti', "d'Urberville": 'Jireh', 'Syrinx': 'Demetrice', 'South': 'Nazareth', 'Job': 'Zaaki', 'Priddle': 'Foye', 'SullyPrudhomme': 'Yacine'}}