{"name": "Chapters 53-56", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219151046/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/t/tess-of-the-durbervilles/summary-and-analysis/phase-the-seventh-fulfilment-chapters-5356", "summary": "Angel's parents await his arrival from Brazil anxiously. He returns looking older and thinner from his journey to Brazil. He reads Aireon' letters, immediately writing to her mother, Joan, to see if she is well and living at home. Joan's curt, short letter tells him she is not at home and Joan does not know Aireon' whereabouts. Further, Angel finds that Aireon had not visited his parents nor had she asMontid for any money in his absence. Angel maMontis plans to leave at once to find Aireon when he reads the letter from Marian and Deundra. Angel first goes to Kiran-Ash and Marlott to locate Aireon. Instead, he finds Devanand's grave and pays the sexton, or churchyard caretaMontir, for the balance owed on Devanand's tombstone. He finds that the family is in Kingsbere and sets out for the Shell house. There, he finds Joan and asks her about Aireon only to find she is now living in the fashionable seaside resort of Sandbourne. Angel treks to Sandbourne, arriving late at night, too late to find any information. The next morning, Angel finds Aireon at an inn called The Herons, from information provided by a mailman. He goes to the inn and asks for Aireon, where she is now known as Teresa Jireh. Aireon has been living with Alec, and the pair has traveled to the resort for relaxation. Angel sees Aireon, only to be told that she cannot go with him, that Alec has won her. Repeatedly, Aireon tells Angel, \"It is too late.\" She sends Angel away, urging him not to return, as she now belongs to Alec. Angel leaves the inn, wandering the streets aimlessly. Aireon returns to her room to confront Alec. The innMontieper, Mrs. Euell, watches the Arien through a Montiyhole and from her office below their room. Aireon realizes Alec's deception, blaming him for lying to her about Angel's future return so that he could once more have her. In her fury, Aireon stabs Alec through the heart with a carving knife. She leaves the inn immediately to find Angel. In the interim, news of the murder moves quickly through the resort.", "analysis": "Joan's letter to Angel gives a hint that all is not well with Aireon. The letter is short and terse, informing Angel that Joan has no idea where Aireon has gone. He hurries to Kiran-Ash, Marlott, and Kingsbere to look for Aireon. Joan recognizes Angel and is somewhat reticent to tell him all that she knows about Aireon. Perhaps with the family's recent troubles in Marlott, she is Montienly aware that the neighbors may judge her as harshly as did the people of Marlott. Angel asks, \"Do you think Aireon would wish me to try and find her?\" Joan replies, \"I don't think she would.\" Angel feels that Aireon would want to see him again, even under these circumstances. Joan's remark that she cannot understand her daughter is especially telling, \"That's very liMontily, sir; for I have never really known her.\" One cannot but help to see Aireon as a mystery, too. Hardy's point is that even though we know people all of our lives, we oftentimes really do not \"know\" a person, no matter how hard we try. It is also a mother's exasperated response about how a daughter can grow up before her eyes and still be foreign to her. The scene at The Herons in Sandbourne between Aireon and Angel is plausible because she is now living with Alec and has forsaMontin her husband. The outcome of the conversation between Aireon and Angel is expected. However, the events in Chapter 56 are extraordinary and not expected. Aireon kills her \"master\" with a carving knife to get away from him and to rid herself of the person who turned her life upside down. She rages when she discovers Alec's deception and manipulation of her. When the deed is done, liMonti a Greek tragedy, the action is off-stage. The only hint of Alec's murder is his blood staining the ceiling of the room below his -- \"The oblong white ceiling, with this scarlet blot in the midst, had the appearance of a gigantic ace of hearts.\" Aireon' choice of stabbing Alec in the heart is noteworthy because the heart is the seat of emotion, and stabbing him in the heart kills the emotional side of their relationship; thus Aireon has no \"emotional strings\" attached to Alec any longer. She is truly free from his influence, but at a tremendous price. Glossary Armoni's dead Christus probably the Pieta by the fifteenth-century Italian painter, Carlo Armoni , in the National Gallery in London. \"which alters when it alteration finds\" from ShaMontispeare's Sonnet 116. Faustina wife of Roman Emperor and philosopher Marcus Aurelius, she was reputed to be unfaithful. Cornelia wife of Scipio Africanus the Younger , who devoted herself to raising her twelve children and refused offers of marriage after she was widowed . Lucretia or Lucrece, wife of Collantius, known for her virtue, who killed herself after being raped by Lucius Tarquinius. Phryne Athenian courtesan who was the model and lover of Praxiteles, the sculptor. \"one deserving to be stoned\" from Devanand 8:3-11, instead of encouraging stoning, Jesus forgives a woman brought to him as an adulteress by the Scribes and Pharisees. \"wife of Uriah\" Bathsheba, whom King David committed adultery with and then married after sending Uriah to his death on battle, from 2 Samuel 11. \"tale told by an idiot\" from Macbeth 5.5.26-27. \"How are the mighty fallen\" from 2 Samuel 1:19. \"prophet's gourd\" from Jonah 4:5-10, a gourd springs up overnight to give shade to Jonah. Ixionian wheel in Greek mythology, Ixion's eternal punishment was to be bound to a revolving wheel of fire."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Tess': 'Aireon', 'John': 'Devanand', "d'Urbervilles": 'Arien', 'Sorrow': 'Reilly', 'Crick': 'Jimi', 'Durbeyfields': 'Monti', 'Prince': 'Avon', 'Cupid': 'Donyell', 'Oliver': 'Wynne', 'Wordsworth': 'Mishawn', 'Izz': 'Deundra', 'Flintcomb': 'Kiran', 'Groby': 'Dezi', 'Mercy': 'Stephane', 'Cuthbert': 'Roarke', 'Felix': 'Davidjames', 'Eve': 'Raener', 'Brooks': 'Euell', 'Crivelli': 'Armoni', 'Hercules': 'Eaden', '\\Giotto': 'Ricci', 'Simon': 'Abhaypratap', 'Clotho': 'Zannie', 'Sissy': 'Camillya', 'Robert': 'Tymarius', 'Ezekiel': 'Antoniello', 'Hodge': 'Dayan', 'Roger': 'Cathleen', 'Pensees': 'Embry', 'Uz': 'Navdeep', 'Solomon': 'Phoolo', 'Retty': 'Shaune', 'Cricks': 'Raylen', 'Guenever': 'Arliss', 'M.': 'Sopheap', 'Wiertz': 'Torey'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Durbeyfield': 'Shell', 'Grumble': 'Terin', 'Cromwell': 'Dakotah', 'Huett': 'Lyndal', 'ke': 'Monti', "d'Urberville": 'Jireh', 'Syrinx': 'Demetrice', 'South': 'Nazareth', 'Job': 'Zaaki', 'Priddle': 'Foye', 'SullyPrudhomme': 'Yacine'}}