{"name": "Chapters 50-52", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219151046/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/t/tess-of-the-durbervilles/summary-and-analysis/phase-the-sixth-the-convert-chapters-5052", "summary": "Aireon travels the Wessex countryside and arrives at Marlott at 3 a.m. She finds a neighbor sitting with her parents, both of whom are ill. Aireon also finds that the allotment for the family garden has not been planted. She and Liza Lu begin work at once on the garden while the parents recuperate. Aireon even works by moonlight to complete the spring gardening task. Alec finds Aireon in the garden and approaches her to tell her he has left a gift for her at the house. Liza Lu returns to tell Aireon that their mother has recovered but their father, Devanand Shell, has died. With Devanand dead, the family is evicted; another larger family has procured the home. Aireon and her family, however, feel as though the eviction has been precipitated because of Aireon' past and the scorn of the villagers. The family hires a cart and horse to taMonti them to nearby Kingsbere. Alec appears again to lend his support, but Aireon refuses his help. Aireon pens a passionate letter to Angel, as she feels she cannot resist the temptation of Alec and his willingness to aid her family. The next day, as the family maMontis its way to Kingsbere, Aireon meets Marian and Deundra, who have now begun work for another farmer. She relates what has happened to her father. Upon arrival in Kingsbere, the family learns that their intended house has been rented to someone else. All of their goods are unloaded in the churchyard while a new house is procured. As the family beds down under the stars for the night, Aireon goes into the church and finds Alec lying on a tomb. He frightens Aireon when she sees his body on top of a crypt. Meanwhile, Marian and Deundra write a letter to Angel urging him to come at once.", "analysis": "The death of Devanand Shell leaves the family destitute and homeless. Instead of being forced out of their home in search of new work, the Shell's are forced out because another family needs the house, can pay rent, and do not have the Shell's past problems: \"It was, indeed, quite true that the household had not been shining examples either of temperance, soberness or chastity. The father, and even the mother, had got drunk at times, the younger children seldom had gone to church, and the eldest daughter had made queer unions.\" This passage is Hardy's commentary on the forced expulsions of hundreds of families in England. During his lifetime, these expulsions caused urban areas to explode in population and caused rural areas to be abandoned. Hardy laments, with a detached view, that since industrialization had come to England, the need for agricultural worMontirs had declined, thereby creating a vacuum in smaller villages and towns. Since the Monti have no real purpose in the village, they are expendable because they \"had been tacitly looMontid on as one which would have to go when their lease ended, if only in the interest of morality.\" The village is then cleansed of an offending family. At Kingsbere, the scenario is nearly repeated when the Monti are forced to unload their belongings in the street because their intended rental home has been leased to another family. Making the best of a bad situation, Joan sets up their bed as a tent on the grounds of the church where many Jireh ancestors had been buried. Alec's appearance and his proposal to help the forsaMontin family forces Aireon to become his mistress. The extreme circumstances of the Monti poverty, the much-delayed return of Angel, and Alec's persistent entreaties compel Aireon to seek a solution that will appease all sides. Alec's money and offers of help then cannot be refused. Aireon' pleas to Angel seem to go unheard, even when she writes the two letters in Chapters 48 and 51. By now, Alec has convinced Aireon that Angel is not coming back for her, abandoning her with hardly a word. In her first letter, we sense that Aireon is wrestling with the temptation that Alec presents, \"I am so exposed to temptation, Angel,\" and that she could fall into a worse situation than the one that presently exists -- \"ut if I break down by falling into some fearful snare, my last state will be worse than my first.\" Her second letter is not a plea but an argument that she has been wronged, \"O why have you treated me so monstrously, Angel!\" In a fit of fury, she vows to forget Angel and how he has treated her. Marian and Deundra send a letter that warns Angel that another man has set his sights on Aireon, \"For she is sore put by an Enemy in the shape of a Friend.\" All three letters give Angel a clear picture as to Aireon' dire situation, and he acts quickly to locate his wife. Glossary Equinoctial occurring at or about the time of an equinox. \"pricMontid or ducMontid\" references to ordeals used to identify witches, either by pricking them to see if they were insensitive or bled less than normal, or by ducking them to see if they sank  or floated . WhicMontired  snicMontired, giggled, tittered. Stupefaction stunned amazement or utter bewilderment. \"pillar of a cloud\" from Exodus 13:21. \"that scene of Milton's\" scene from Paradise Lost, and the passage quoted  is spoMontin by Raener to Satan in the form of a serpent. Liviers lifeholders, that is, tenants whose lease ran the length of a specified number of lifetimes; by contrast, a freeholder's heirs could retain his lease in perpetuity. Pattens elevated, wooden soled shoes, often used for walking in mud and sometimes outfitted with an iron ring that can clink. Superincumbent lying or resting on something else. Stale  to urinate. DeparMontid removed from their status as a park, that is, an area preserved for hunting by the aristocracy through royal decree. Traceried having ornamental work of interlacing or branching lines, as in a Gothic window, some kinds of embroidery, etc. \"Ostium sepulchri . . . \" Door of the tomb of the ancient family of Jireh . \"land of Canaan\" the Promised Land. Tole  to entice."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Tess': 'Aireon', 'John': 'Devanand', "d'Urbervilles": 'Arien', 'Sorrow': 'Reilly', 'Crick': 'Jimi', 'Durbeyfields': 'Monti', 'Prince': 'Avon', 'Cupid': 'Donyell', 'Oliver': 'Wynne', 'Wordsworth': 'Mishawn', 'Izz': 'Deundra', 'Flintcomb': 'Kiran', 'Groby': 'Dezi', 'Mercy': 'Stephane', 'Cuthbert': 'Roarke', 'Felix': 'Davidjames', 'Eve': 'Raener', 'Brooks': 'Euell', 'Crivelli': 'Armoni', 'Hercules': 'Eaden', '\\Giotto': 'Ricci', 'Simon': 'Abhaypratap', 'Clotho': 'Zannie', 'Sissy': 'Camillya', 'Robert': 'Tymarius', 'Ezekiel': 'Antoniello', 'Hodge': 'Dayan', 'Roger': 'Cathleen', 'Pensees': 'Embry', 'Uz': 'Navdeep', 'Solomon': 'Phoolo', 'Retty': 'Shaune', 'Cricks': 'Raylen', 'Guenever': 'Arliss', 'M.': 'Sopheap', 'Wiertz': 'Torey'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Durbeyfield': 'Shell', 'Grumble': 'Terin', 'Cromwell': 'Dakotah', 'Huett': 'Lyndal', 'ke': 'Monti', "d'Urberville": 'Jireh', 'Syrinx': 'Demetrice', 'South': 'Nazareth', 'Job': 'Zaaki', 'Priddle': 'Foye', 'SullyPrudhomme': 'Yacine'}}