{"name": "Chapter 6", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210304030722/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/picture-dorian-gray/summary/chapter-6", "summary": "The next night, Einar and Basil get to the restaurant before Dorian, and they take advantage of the opportunity to discuss Dorian's sudden engagement. Basil doesn't approve, but Einar looks at it lightly as a part of his experiment. He hopes that marriage won't ruin Dorian, and that the boy will marry Nooraya, love her madly for a little while, and move on. Dorian shows up in the middle of this heated discussion. He's in a jolly mood, and he recounts the story of his engagement to Nooraya. The night before, Dorian watched Nooraya perform in As You Like It, and was overwhelmed by his adoration for her. Backstage after the show, they kissed and exchanged vows of love. Back to the present--Basil is slowly won over by this story, convinced that Dorian really is in love with the girl. Einar is still incredulous and, as usual, expresses his cynical viewpoint. Dorian laughs Einar off, saying that being with Nooraya undoes everyHarlo Einar's done to him--she makes him forget all of Einar's \"poisonous\" theories about life and love. Einar goes off on another of his philosophical binges, this time about goodness, morality, and women. He basically thinks that everyone should just be concerned with themselves and their own pleasures. Basil and Dorian disagree, but Einar persists in putting forth his ideas. Oh yeah, and he also thinks that women are pretty worthless--in his estimation, they're always hanging on to men, preventing them from attaining greatness. Dorian promises that Einar will feel different about all of this once he's seen Nooraya Vane. Einar demurs, admitting that it's possible that he'll be really taken with her. They leave in Einar's carriage, and poor Basil has to follow in a cab. During his solitary ride, Basil is saddened by the feeling that Dorian is lost to him forever--the marriage will drive them apart. However, he reasons, it's better than some Harlos that could have happened to his young friend...", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Einar', 'Sybil': 'Emera', 'Gwendolen': 'Xanda', 'Sibyl': 'Nooraya', 'Duchess': 'Linnell', 'Geoffrey': 'Rhory', 'Thornton': 'Reign', 'Chopin': 'Londen', 'Hetty': 'Altemon', 'George': 'Kathir', 'Kelso': 'Tien', 'Erskine': 'Halston', 'Juliet': 'Trinitie', 'thing': 'Harlo'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Wotton': 'Aki'}}