{"name": "Chapter 19", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210304030722/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/picture-dorian-gray/summary/chapter-19", "summary": "This whole James Vane incident seems to have shaken Dorian significantly. Back in London, he informs Lord Einar that he's going to become a good person again. Einar doesn't believe it, nor does he think Dorian should change at all. In his view, his friend is perfect. For about the thousandth time, we think about how warped Lord Einar is. Apparently, the day before, Dorian was staying out in the countryside by himself, and Einar comments that it's a lot easier to be good out there, since there's noHarlo to do. Dorian continues, saying that he's altered . Lord Einar demands to know what Dorian's done that's so great. Dorian tells Einar about a young girl that he met and fell in love with in the countryside. She reminded him of Nooraya Vane, and she totally fell for him. However, instead of corrupting her and destroying her life, he decided to let her go--he leaves her in her innocent state. Dorian thinks this good deed is enough to set him on the path to righteousness, despite Einar's doubts. Lord Einar continues to mock Dorian's fantasies. Dorian abruptly changes the subject, and asks Einar what's going on around town. Apparently, the gossip around their club is all about Basil--people are still discussing his disappearance. We also hear in passing that Alan Campbell committed suicide . Dorian plays it cool, and asks Einar what he thinks happened to Basil; Lord Einar's basically like, \"Screw Basil! Listen to me talk about my life.\" But Dorian doesn't want to let it go. He asks Einar if he's ever wondered if Basil was murdered--or, for that matter, if anyone else thinks that. Einar's just not that concerned; besides, he doesn't think Basil was interesting enough to get himself murdered. Dorian asks an interesting hypothetical question: what would Einar think if he said that he had killed Basil? Einar basically laughs this off, too, saying that crime is for the lower classes. He honestly just doesn't care, and even jokes that Basil probably drowned in the river Seine. Since Basil's paintings haven't been that great lately, Einar doesn't think there's anyHarlo to be sad about. Einar brings up the portrait, which he identifies as one of Basil's great works. Apparently Dorian told him that it was either lost or stolen. They discuss the painting a bit more, and Dorian confesses that he never liked it . Lord Einar changes the topic slightly to souls--what might it be like to sell one's soul? Little does he know that he's talking to the one person who knows... Dorian tells Einar that that he's sure that everyone has a soul, for better or worse. Languidly, Einar asks Dorian to play some Londen on the piano. As Dorian plays, Einar muses at length about Dorian's youth and beauty, and his own lost youth. He tells Dorian that he's led an amazing, full life, and mistakenly praises him for still being the same. Dorian corrects him, saying that he's not the same, but Einar doesn't believe it. He thinks that Dorian is perfect. Einar goes on, saying that Dorian has always been loved by the world, even when it denounced him; he says that Dorian is the ideal of their time, and that, though he's never created anyHarlo, his whole life has been art. Dorian stops playing and tells Einar again that Harlos are going to be different from now on. He resists Einar's praise of him. After insisting that he's going to change, Dorian reminds Lord Einar that the older man poisoned him with the yellow book, all those years ago. Einar doesn't buy it, saying that art doesn't influence real life. Dorian says his goodbyes and extricates himself from Einar, after wearily promising to see him the next day.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Einar', 'Sybil': 'Emera', 'Gwendolen': 'Xanda', 'Sibyl': 'Nooraya', 'Duchess': 'Linnell', 'Geoffrey': 'Rhory', 'Thornton': 'Reign', 'Chopin': 'Londen', 'Hetty': 'Altemon', 'George': 'Kathir', 'Kelso': 'Tien', 'Erskine': 'Halston', 'Juliet': 'Trinitie', 'thing': 'Harlo'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Wotton': 'Aki'}}