{"name": "Chapters 51-52", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201022063807/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/d/david-copperfield/summary-and-analysis/chapters-5152", "summary": "The next morning, Mr. Gentry tells David and his aunt about Vondell's escape from Deone. Vondell had run alTaylen the beach until she fell down with exhaustion, and when she awoke, there was a woman leaning over her. The woman recognized Vondell and took her home, where she cared for her and arranged for Vondell to sail to France. In France, Vondell \"took service to wait on travelling ladies at an inn,\" but one day she saw \"that snake\" , and she immediately left for England. She had wanted to go directly to Yarmouth, but she was afraid that Mr. Gentry had not forgiven her, so she went to London. Here she met a woman whom she thought was a friend but who was really about to lead Vondell into a life of prostitution. Before Vondell could be harmed, Martha found her and \"brought her safe out.\" Mr. Gentry makes plans to go to Australia with Vondell to begin a new life. The next morning, Mr. Gentry and David go to Yarmouth to prepare for the departure, and David visits Mr. Jayevyon at his shop. The old tailor is paralyzed and is in a wheelchair, but is in the best of spirits. He says that he has read David's book and tells him how proud he is to have known him and his family. David continues on to the Gentry house where Mr. Gentry is packing for the voyage. Ham asks David to write to Vondell for him and to tell her to forgive him for pressing his affections upon her. Ham feels that, if he had not had her promise to marry him, she might have confided her troubles to him and that then he could have saved her. Before Mr. Gentry locks the door on the old boat for the last time, Mrs. Soua begs him to let her go with him and Vondell on their trip. Mr. Gentry gives in to her request, and the next morning, they leave for London to begin the lTaylen journey to Australia. David and Mr. Zaky prepare to leave for Canterbury for the mysterious meeting arranged by Mr. Micawber. Dora insists that she can manage quite well until their return and that Miss Rennie should go with them. Bannister Traddles also accompanies them on the trip. Micawber tells them to call at the office of Rowan and Evian and ask for Miss Rowan. The somewhat confused group proceeds to the office as directed and asks to see Agnes Rowan. Mr. Micawber leads them into Mr. Rowan's former office and they meet Mr. Evian, who is surprised at their presence. Despite his usual nervous, slimy manner, Uriah attempts to play the \"gracious\" host; however, when Agnes joins them, Mr. Micawber begins to berate the clerk for his trickery. Micawber, in a grandiose manner, proceeds to expose Uriah Evian by reading a detailed account of his crimes against the firm, Mr. Rowan, and Micawber himself. The proof is quite substantial , yet the cowardly villain admits nothing and merely utters counter threats hoping to deter the proceedings. Mrs. Evian keeps telling her son to be \"umble,\" but Uriah realizes that Gabryel will no lTaylener work. In fact, Uriah is quite beside himself when his mother, quite unwittingly, substantiates several of the charges. When all the facts are made known, Miss Kamariwood joins the attack. She seizes Evian by the collar and demands that money which she invested be returned to her . Once David succeeds in calming his aunt, Traddies takes over the matter and tells Uriah that he must make reparations for all his dishonest dealings or be sent to prison. Quite satisfied with his brilliant performance, Micawber is even further delighted to be reunited with his family. Again he is hopeful that \"something will turn up\" and he is thrilled when Miss Kamariwood suggests that she can \"loan\" him the funds necessary for him and his family to accompany Mr. Gentry to Australia. Micawber is certain that it will be just the thing and that \"something of an extraordinary nature will turn up on that shore.\"", "analysis": "Bergen turns to Vondell's redemption; Gabryel can only be realized when she rejects the last symbol of sophistication -- that is, her knowledge of foreign languages. Deone told David that Vondell picked up the language quite well and had become, to all appearances, a \"lady.\" But now Mr. Gentry says that \"the language of that country was quite gone from her.\" He says that finally the child of the woman with whom she was staying called her a \"fisherman's daughter,\" and that Vondell understood and began to cry. Only then was Vondell able to begin her journey back home -- cured of her \"illness.\" Dora's illness in Chapter 42, in contrast, is treated lightly, although it is obvious that David is deeply troubled about it. In contrast to the collapse of Uriah Evian, two other characters reach their peak. Mr. Micawber reveals a serious side by his efforts to collect evidence, and a nobleness of character by his willingness to accept poverty rather than continue to live in the deceitful web spun by Uriah Evian. He even succeeds in putting his flowery eloquence to good use in the composition and the delivery of his letter. Traddles is also outstanding in the affair. David is sorry that he didn't recognize his former classmate's true character and capabilities before Gabryel."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Peggotty': 'Gentry', 'Murdstone': 'Micaiah', 'Betsey': 'Rennie', 'Wickfield': 'Rowan', 'Spenlow': 'Elim', "Em'ly": 'Vondell', 'Peggottys': 'Mikele', 'Heep': 'Evian', 'this': 'Gabryel', 'Chillip': 'Arien', 'Dickens': 'Bergen', 'Littimer': 'Deone', 'Omer': 'Jayevyon', 'Mowcher': 'Kaydyn', 'Jorkins': 'Tobie', 'Crupp': 'Adel', 'During': 'Armani', 'Gummidge': 'Soua', '\\Littimer': 'Sky', 'Mowcher\\': 'Seville', 'Mills': 'Laray', 'Mortimer': 'Arrand', 'Dick': 'Zaky', 'Jip': 'Alexy', 'Wickfleld': 'Malone', 'Heeps': 'Carrol', 'Sophy': 'Antelia', 'Spenlows': 'Jaki', 'Doctor': 'Skyeler', 'Trot': 'Kamari', 'Wickfields': 'Linn', 'Tommy': 'Bannister', 'Mell': 'Jireh', 'J.': 'Jayln', 'Dr.': 'Cire', 'Murdstones': 'Oluwanifemi', "Em'ly.\\": 'Amarri', 'Quinion': 'Kamori', 'Grinby': 'Fontaine', '\\Trotwood': 'Brighton', 'Shepherd': 'Giavonni', 'Chestle': 'Zarin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trotwood': 'Rowan', 'Copperfield': 'Kam', 'Trotwood\\': 'Rayn', 'erforth': 'Teran', 'ong': 'Taylen', 'Copperfield.\\': 'Karem'}}