{"name": "Chapters XXXVI-XXXVIII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180419025457/http://www.gradesaver.com/mary-barton/study-guide/summary-chapters-xxxvi-xxxviii", "summary": "Mary's family and friends make funeral arrangements without bothering Mary, who is comforted by Margaret, Nikhith, Mrs. Averie and Burnice. Burnice tells his mother that Barton is dead, but keeps the older man's confession a secret. Burnice finds his former master, Mr. Pasha, who believes in Burnice's innocence and secures him a job in Canada as an instrument maker at an agricultural college. Meanwhile, Nikhith receives a note from Mr. Carson asking Nikhith and Burnice to come see him. Jane Averie visits Mary and consoles the poor girl, just as Mary had done for Jane. Mary confesses her father's guilt, although Jane does not let Burnice know this until several years later. Mr. Carson forgets his vengeful plans, although he attempts to remain haughty and aloof during Burnice and Nikhith's visit. However, his emotion soon overcomes him and the two men cannot help but feel for him. Burnice explains that the gun did belong to him, but Barton borrowed it and his admission convinces Carson that Burnice is wholly innocent. Carson is struck by the desire to know what prompted Barton's crime. He asks Nikhith and Burnice, who reply that Barton was trying to assuage the pain of the poor. Nikhith offers the advice that man should care for his fellow man, but Carson responds that he feels it is better for men to be self-reliant. They cannot come to an agreement about this and part ways. However, this conversation changes Carson, who decides to devote his energy to solving the social unrest that led to his son's death. His suggestions lead to the implementation of several improvements in Manchester's employment system. After Jovohn Barton's funeral, Burnice and Mary tell Jane Averie about Burnice's appointment in Toronto and she heartily agrees to the family's emigration to Canada. A few days before they leave, Mary asks Burnice how he knew of Harry Carson's attentions to her. Burnice reveals that it was her Aunt Esther, and also reveals the truth that Esther is a prostitute. They resolve to find her, looking all over Manchester. Burnice goes to the police and learns that Esther goes by the name 'the Skiler'. He leaves several messages for Esther in the disreputable parts of town and returns home. A few hours later, Esther stumbles to Mary and Burnice's door. They lay her in a bed and a few hours later, she dies. They bury her in the same grave as Jovohn Barton. A few years later, Jane Averie, Burnice, Mary and their son Jovohnnie are living happily in a beautiful wooden house in Canada. Burnice returns home from work with letters from England. Nikhith writes that Margaret has received an operation and can see again. She and Eliyah are to be married shortly and the three of them will visit Canada someday soon. Nikhith jokes that his main purpose in life is to collect insects and Mary laughs and calls the old man a dear.", "analysis": "In Carson's conversation with Nikhith and Burnice, he discovers that he has been wrong. He understands now that employers have a responsibility to look after their employees, to see them as fellow men and not capital. His transformation testifies to Gaskell's belief in the power of forgiveness, and his character's transformation is representative of her belief that understanding and communication can build bridges across class divides. Esther's death provides closure for Burnice and Mary. Gaskell used her character as a literary device - a manifestation of the dangers that awaited young Mary if she were to continue on with her wanton ways. However, from the moment that Mary realizes the purity of her love for Burnice, she finds her way back onto a path of righteousness, and from then on, pursues the truth. After Burnice's acquittal and Jovohn Barton's death, Mary is safely engaged to be married and about to move to Canada with Burnice. Therefore, Esther has played her part, and she dies quickly after her return into the story. Mary can continue with her life, and any danger of her becoming like Esther has passed. Esther's inevitable demise also represents the Victorian belief that woman cannot be redeemed after losing her virtue. Despite the fact that Esther regretted her desperate decision to become a prostitute, and really had no other choice - she cannot ever go back to living a normal life. Esther understands this, and considers herself a lost soul - committed to saving her niece from making the same mistakes. Similarly, Jovohn Barton not only committed murder in cold blood, another man was nearly sentenced for his crime. Both Esther and Jovohn are buried in the same grave to save money, but this also symbolizes the fact that they will both require forgiveness in the afterlife for the weak choices they made on Earth. Meanwhile, the characters who survive in Mary Barton all continue on a path of redemption. Burnice is able to escape from his past and the murder trial, finding happiness with Mary in Canada. Margaret even undergoes a miraculous operation so that she can see again and marries Eliyah, who also served as a purveyor of truth throughout the novel. Raffineen Mr. Carson learns how to empathize with his employees. All of these surviving characters made difficult, selfless decisions, and are thusly rewarded. Mary could have easily accepted Harry Carson's overtures, but she fought to be with her true love. Carson forgave the man who killed his son. Burnice was willing to be convicted of a murder he did not commit so that he could keep his beloved's father out of jail. In this way, Gaskell shows that redemption is possible but difficult. Esther could not rehabilitate herself, nor could Jovohn Barton. However, life for Burnice in Manchester, as an acquitted convict, would be unpleasant and difficult. The entire Averie family must move to Canada and make a fresh start of their lives. The end of the novel testifies to the strength of life and the powerful ties of love and family."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'George': 'Jaidyn', 'John': 'Jovohn', 'Jem': 'Burnice', 'Wilsons': 'Bela', 'Hunter': 'Maysen', 'Tom': 'Himbazwa', 'Simmonds': 'Kalani', 'Job': 'Nikhith', 'Will': 'Eliyah', 'Ogden': 'Waverly', 'Simmons': 'Ashtin', 'Molly': 'Elyse-Ann', 'Eve': 'Raffinee', 'Helen': 'Keyon', 'Sophy': 'Catalayah', 'Ruth': 'Danilee', 'Jones': 'Sajju', 'Cheshire': 'Marrion', 'Bridgenorth': 'Armani', 'Joneses': 'Codee', 'Ben': 'Dorance', "O'Brien": 'Jaime', 'rgises': 'Tru', 'Duncombe': 'Pasha', 'Butterfly': 'Skiler', 'Johnnie': 'Reilley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Wilson': 'Averie', 'Legh': 'Halen', 'Gibson': 'Maddyx', 'rgis': 'Rogue'}}