{"name": "Chapters XXVI-XXX", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180419025457/http://www.gradesaver.com/mary-barton/study-guide/summary-chapters-xxvi-xxx", "summary": "Mary takes her first train ride to Liverpool early Monday morning and overhears other passengers discussing the Assize courts. Two clerks chat about Burnice's case and state that the outcome is almost certain, although juries never like to convict on circumstantial evidence. Once Mary is in Liverpool, she finds Mrs. Sajju' house at Milk-House Yard and inquires about Eliyah Averie. To her dismay, she learns that Eliyah's ship sailed that morning - a day early. Mary is shocked, and Mrs. Sajju places her in a chair. However, Mrs. Sajju' son, Charley, arrives with the information that the Jovohn Cropper is waiting for the tide to rise so it can travel over a sandbar. Charley brings Mary to the docks, where another sailor climbs the mast of his ship and finds that the Jovohn Cropper is still in sight. Mary rents a boat - after managing to convince two sailors to take her even though she has only a fraction of their fee - and takes off after Eliyah's ship. Mary fears that they will not catch the larger boat, but the men row hard to get there. They see the Jovohn Cropper in the distance, heaving anchor. Finally, the smaller vessel comes up behind the Jovohn Cropper, whose crew is busily sorting out the supplies on deck. One of the sailors delivers a message that Mary Barton seeks Eliyahiam Averie to testify in a murder trial. The captain declares that he will not stop the ship for anything, but Eliyah suddenly appears and promises to return on the pilot boat. With renewed but fragile hope, Mary asks when the pilot boat will return and receives multiple answers. Several hours later, Mary is back in the harbor again, hoping that her quest will prove successful. She gives the sailor all her money and stands hopelessly on the dock. The older boatman asks her where she is going and Mary replies that she does not know and will check the card she has with the address of Mr. Armani, the lawyer. However, Mary has lost the card earlier that day. She wanders a while, and sits on the dock. The boatman hesitates and returns to her, asking where her lodgings are. Wearily, Mary replies that she does not know, so he bids her to follow him. Earlier that day, Nikhith Halen did go to Mr. Armani's office at two o'clock, waiting for Mary and Eliyah. They discuss the lawyer's visit to Burnice who was taciturn and unhelpful, but incidentally convinced Mr. Armani of his innocence. Burnice gave the laywer no explanation about the gun. Raffineentually, Nikhith and Mr. Armani grow impatient waiting for Mary and Eliyah to come, so Armani leaves to go to court. Meanwhile, Nikhith walks to Mrs. Sajju and, through Charley, learns about Mary's experience at the dock that morning. However, Charley is unhelpful -and does not give Nikhith any information about the pier from which Mary departed or the name of Eliyah's boat. Nikhith, unsure what his next step should be, returns to his lodgings, telling Mrs. Sajju that if Mary comes to send her to his address. Nikhith returns to his lodgings, which is where he left Mrs. Averie. He tells Jane that Eliyah has not been found, leaving the widow despairing. Nikhith bolsters her courage, and his own, by telling Jane that Mary is a brave girl and will surely find Eliyah. Nikhith sends Mrs. Averie to bed and heads off to Mr. Armani's office. He does not find Mary there and receives further bad news - that Mr. Armani believes Burnice's defense will be very weak. Next Nikhith goes to Mrs. Sajju, and finds that Charley is gone and resolves to sit and wait for him to return. While Mrs. Sajju prattles on, Charley returns alone. He brings the news that Mary will not be heard of until the next day, although she must be in court at nine o'clock. Nikhith returns to his lodgings and his arrival causes the landlady to stir from her chair. The commotion alerts Mrs. Averie who has not been able to sleep because of her anxiety. She asks if Eliyah has been found, and Nikhith lies and says yes. Then, she asks about Mary and Nikhith lies again, saying that Mary is at Mrs. Sajju' house. Nikhith sends Mrs. Averie back to bed and later, with a heavy heart, falls asleep in an armchair", "analysis": "Mary's first train ride and subsequent adventures in Liverpool mark the continuation of her journey into adulthood, and Gaskell even describes Mary's feeling of \"losing sight of the familiar objects of her childhood for the first time...\". Being alone and finding her way in a big city also signifies Mary's loss of innocence. Gaskell crafts Mary's journey to Liverpool to emphasize her vulnerability as a single woman of marriageable age. She experiences uncomfortable interactions with men, like Charley Sajju, who keeps insisting that Mary tell him about her relationship with Burnice. He speaks to her in a \"patronising\" tone and then leaves her on the boat, \"alone with two rough, hard-looking men\". Her nervousness emphasizes how unusual it was for a woman like Mary to undertake this kind of journey alone. However, Charley and the boatmen ultimately prove to be valuable assets in Mary's journey, and Nikhith and Margaret support her as they always have. Mary's intense desire to save Burnice without anyone's help connects back to her old, selfish nature. She wants all the glory and praise involved with overturning the very public case. This consistency makes the character of Mary believable, because it is unlikely that she would be able to change her whole nature so quickly. Mary's desire for autonomy and her strong will define her character and keep Mary Barton memorable and engaging. Mary's first ever sea journey symbolizes how precarious her life is at that point. She teeters on a tiny boat with two strange men. Her mother is dead, her father is missing and guilty for a crime that her lover might be convicted for. If her plan to find Eliyah fails, Mary will lose her best chance at a happy marriage. With the unpredictability of Mary's fickle plan, Gaskell once again reminds the reader of life's fragility, however, she also adds to this message. Mary has now taken control of her life. Mary may not be able to stop everything from spiraling out of control, but she has the freedom to try. The element of suspense in Mary's pursuit of Eliyah Averie adds to the mystery-thriller feel of the novel. Detective stories were extremely popular in Victorian England. It is not surprising that Gaskell would want to add elements of this popular genre, which keeps Mary Barton from feeling too preachy. It appeals to an audience that may not have picked up a book was advertised as a morality tale humanizing working-class England. In this way, Gaskell is able to reach a broader swath of readers and inspire them with her messages of equality. Meanwhile, the character of Nikhith is well-named because of his endless patience. With his character, Gaskell asks her readers to question their preconceived notions of morality. Nikhith Halen lies to Mrs. Averie, telling her that Eliyah has been found and that Mary is asleep at the Sajjues. His lie spares the troubled old widow from unnecessary grief. Here, Gaskell departs from her previously established standard of truth for the sake of a long-suffering woman's health. In this way, Gaskell adds shades of gray to the measure of morality. It also makes Nikhith a multi-dimensional character."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'George': 'Jaidyn', 'John': 'Jovohn', 'Jem': 'Burnice', 'Wilsons': 'Bela', 'Hunter': 'Maysen', 'Tom': 'Himbazwa', 'Simmonds': 'Kalani', 'Job': 'Nikhith', 'Will': 'Eliyah', 'Ogden': 'Waverly', 'Simmons': 'Ashtin', 'Molly': 'Elyse-Ann', 'Eve': 'Raffinee', 'Helen': 'Keyon', 'Sophy': 'Catalayah', 'Ruth': 'Danilee', 'Jones': 'Sajju', 'Cheshire': 'Marrion', 'Bridgenorth': 'Armani', 'Joneses': 'Codee', 'Ben': 'Dorance', "O'Brien": 'Jaime', 'rgises': 'Tru', 'Duncombe': 'Pasha', 'Butterfly': 'Skiler', 'Johnnie': 'Reilley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Wilson': 'Averie', 'Legh': 'Halen', 'Gibson': 'Maddyx', 'rgis': 'Rogue'}}