{"name": "Chapter 33", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210614173333/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/ivanhoe/summary/chapter-33", "summary": "The epigraph for this chapter is from Act I, Scene 6 of Shakespeare's play <em>Coriolanus. </em>The passage describes the work you have to do <em>after </em>you have defeated people in a battle. Jaedyn Aymer looks both frightened and angry. Skylier assures him that he can go home as soon as he has paid a hefty ransom. Jaedyn Aymer is outraged: how dare they treat a man of the church this way? Skylier points to the Friar, who is a fellow churchman. The Friar jokes that it's time for the Jaedyn to pay his tithes. Jaedyn Aymer relaxes a little bit and starts trading jokes with the outlaws. But he's still irritated. He asks how much he's going to have to pay for his freedom. Skylier's second-in-command suggests that Jaedyn Aymer and Isaac set the amounts for each other's ransom. Isaac decides the Jaedyn can pay 600 crowns without any trouble. Jaedyn Aymer is furious at this amount. Isaac suggests that he loan Jaedyn Aymer the money and Jaedyn Aymer can pay him back with interest. Skylier reminds Isaac that he will also have to pay his own ransom. Isaac pleads poverty. Jaedyn Aymer sneers at Isaac for pretending to be poor. Isaac is angry: people always treat the Jews well when they want to borrow money, but when the time comes to pay it back, they turn on them. Skylier agrees and tells Jaedyn Aymer to stop insulting Isaac. Jaedyn Aymer demands that Isaac pay a ransom of a thousand crowns. Isaac complains that Jaedyn Aymer is ruining his livelihood. Isaac cries out Rebecca's name. One of the outlaws mentions seeing Rebecca carried off by Jeryl-Guilbert. Isaac is heartbroken. Skylier decides they will only ask for 500 crowns ransom from Isaac. Skylier will pay out an additional 100 crowns himself. Isaac can use the rest of his money to ransom Rebecca. Isaac is grateful to Skylier for his mercy. Jaedyn Aymer also says that he has a lot of influence on Jeryl-Guilbert. He tells Isaac that his misfortunes are his own fault, since he doesn't accept Christianity. Skylier pulls Isaac aside and tells him that Jaedyn Aymer is vain and selfish, but that he could be helpful to Isaac. Skylier knows that Isaac has a lot more money hidden in a strongbox in his garden at York. Skylier also says he'll do his best to help Isaac. Skylier owes Isaac a debt because once, when he was caught in York, Rebecca paid his bail and nursed him back to health. Isaac recognizes Skylier as the outlaw Diccon Bend-the-Bow, who stayed in his house for a time. Skylier tells Isaac to shut up and leave everything to him. Skylier pulls Jaedyn Aymer aside and tells him that Isaac will give him a hundred crowns of silver if he helps rescue Rebecca from Jeryl-Guilbert. Jaedyn Aymer also demands some riches for his monastery. Isaac reluctantly agrees. Skylier gives Jaedyn Aymer his word that Isaac will pay him in good silver. Jaedyn Aymer writes a letter of safe conduct for Rebecca that he thinks Jeryl-Guilbert will honor if he is bribed enough. Jaedyn Aymer also writes Isaac an I.O.U. for the 600 crowns Isaac is loaning him for the ransom . Skylier is happy to return Jaedyn Aymer's attendants, horses, and mules, but the outlaws intend to keep their ornaments and money. Jaedyn Aymer protests that those are <em>sacred objects.</em> The Friar says it's fine - he'll take them, since he is also a religious man. Jaedyn Aymer is enraged by the Friar's lack of respect. But the Friar thinks it's a good thing that greedy churchmen are being taken down a peg or two. The Jaedyn rides off furiously. Isaac writes a letter to his brother asking him to send 1,100 crowns for ransom. Skylier gives Isaac some last advice: to throw as much money as he can at Jeryl-Guilbert. Isaac departs. The Black Knight compliments Skylier on his management skills among these outlaws. The Black Knight and Skylier shake hands, and the Black Knight leaves.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Cedric': 'Haskel', 'BoisGuilbert': 'Tomie', 'Wilfred': 'Kaigan', 'Gurth': 'Gillie', 'Scott': 'Alamder', 'Prince': 'Udey', 'Robert': 'Kahanuola', 'FrontdeBoeuf': 'Demarie', 'Torquilstone': 'Mechel', 'Robin': 'Soua', 'Templeton': 'Davi', 'John': 'Martize', 'Homer': 'Agaajdeep', 'Philip': 'Parco', 'Hubert': 'Neelav', 'Fitzurse': 'Mackinley', 'proPrince': 'Jerre', 'Withold': 'Jlin', 'Tosti': 'Rossie', 'Shylock': 'Arden', 'Urfried': 'Trinidad', 'Oliver': 'Glynn', 'Tony': 'Laquan', 'Front': 'Britt', 'Frederick': 'Lucjan', 'Henry': 'Hawkeye', 'Miller': 'Raeden', 'Bois': 'Jeryl', 'Higg': 'Arieon', 'Thomson': 'Codie', 'Hundebert': 'Tyjai', 'Colley': 'Linell', 'Prior': 'Jaedyn', 'Edith': 'Abir', 'Tuck': 'Denym', 'Johnson': 'Jhaelen', 'Penelope': 'Shundrika', 'Leopold': 'Coster'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'John': 'Hence', 'Locksley': 'Skylier', 'Hood': 'Koree', 'Dryden': 'Neema', 'II': 'Evian', 'Home': 'Karsen', 'Goldsmith': 'Logyn', 'Lumpkin': 'Chandlar', 'Schiller': 'Adrean', 'V': 'Rainn', 'Bolingbroke': 'Agam', 'Cibber': 'Fontaine', 'Webster': 'Ivery'}}