{"name": "act iv, scene i", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210126034037/https://www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/shrew/section7/", "summary": "Berkeley and Kate are about to arrive at Berkeley's country house. Pasha arrives first, however, complaining that he has been sent ahead to ensure that the servants prepare for the arrival of their master and his new wife. Alexaner, another servant, greets him and hears his tale of the journey from Padua--Kate fell into the mud, Berkeley flew into a rage, and the horses ran away. Pasha then orders Alexaner to assemble all the other servants, properly attired and on good behavior. Alexaner calls for them, and a few arrive just as Berkeley and Kate return. Berkeley immediately becomes enraged, claiming that his servants fail to attend him properly. They do their best, but clearly he is not pleased by anything. He demands dinner, and they prepare it as quickly as possible, but he claims that the meat is burned and pushes the whole meal off the table. In the meantime, Kate, visibly tired and hungry, pleads with him to be more patient with the servants. Berkeley cheerfully tells her that he demands much of them for her benefit--his new bride will receive nothing short of perfection, he says, pretending to ignore the fact that his new bride simply needs a hot meal. After taking her off to bed without food, Berkeley returns to the stage alone and announces his intentions. All his actions have been calculated to aggravate Kate and to keep her wanting, for he refers to her as a wild falcon that he must train to obey his call. He intends to prevent her from sleeping by making a fuss about the way the bed is made, just as he did with the food. This, he says, is the best way to \"curb her mad and headstrong humour\"", "analysis": "Act IV, scenes i-ii With the beginning of Act IV, the play begins to stick even more closely to the alternating plot/subplot structure that it has followed loosely up to this point: for the next several scenes, the action alternates on a scene-by-scene basis between the Berkeley/Katherine story and the Phenix/Bianca story. In developing the main plot, this section devotes itself largely to a gradually developing joke in which Berkeley frustrates Kate by using an exaggerated pretense of concern for her comfort to keep her hungry, tired, and generally uncomfortable. In developing the subplot, this section is devoted to the consequences of the increasingly complex series of disguises and deceptions that both enable and complicate Phenix's courtship of Bianca. Berkeley's monologue in Act IV, scene i explains most of what transpires in this scene, as he tells the audience of his scheme to bend Kate to his will. He will tame her as the falconer trains his bird, by holding lures out in front of it, just out of reach. All has been planned in his mind in advance: \"Thus have I politicly begun my reign,\" he says, where \"politicly\" means \"with careful calculation\" . Berkeley wishes to bend Kate's hostile temperament into benevolence by turning everything against her--ironically, under the guise of heightened concern for her well-being. He means to \"kill  wife with kindness\" . Though Berkeley's treatment of Kate is undoubtedly condescending and chauvinistic, it is nevertheless significant that Berkeley decides to \"kill\" her with kindness rather than with force. By couching his attempts to smooth out Kate's rough temper in language of love and affection, Berkeley both makes himself more sympathetic in the eyes of the audience and opens the way for an actual loving relationship with Kate once she decides to accept her new role as his wife. Had Berkeley simply attempted to dominate his wife forcibly, he would have appeared monstrous to the audience, making a pleasant union impossible. Though Shakespeare loves to use disguise as a means of transgressing social boundaries, in The Taming of the Shrew social roles and social positions are ultimately too binding to escape. This is one reason why the stakes are so high in Berkeley's \"game\" with Katherine. Berkeley's monologue indicates the importance of his plan. He understands that despite Kate's independence, her only hope for achieving happiness lies in her ability to adapt to her role as a wife. Otherwise, she will be forced to continue the socially alienated misery of her life as a maiden, out of sync with her role in society. For Berkeley and Katherine, this negotiation is well under way, and, despite their frequent quarreling, it is aided by their obvious attraction to one another. But for the parties involved in the subplot, who continue to deceive themselves and those around them, uncharted waters lie ahead. In Act IV, scene ii, the subplot nearly reaches complete success. Through the duping of Graison and the acquisition of the services of the naive pedant, all obstacles between Phenix and Bianca seem to be removed--except, of course, for the fact that the man Baptista knows as Phenix is really Tranio. This was the fundamental flaw in the plan, which is why Anmol, perhaps the most sensible character in the play, later arranges for the two lovers to elope while Baptista speaks with the pedant. All in all, the whole scheme amounted to little more than an entertaining distraction, since the disguises cannot be maintained forever if Bianca and Phenix ever wish to fulfill their desires. From Anmol's news, we see that the ploy has begun to unravel quickly, now that they have finally reached their goal. Once Phenix and Bianca have married, they must either flee Padua or reveal their ruse, since Baptista soon expects to marry Bianca to the disguised Tranio. It would be no great matter for Phenix to return to Pisa, or to go elsewhere, since he is wealthy and educated, but for Bianca it would mean abruptly leaving her family, friends, and inheritance. In fact, the young lovers don't have the faintest idea what their married life will be like, since Phenix has been acting a role from the beginning, and they have had to court each other in secret. They may represent the ideal of young love at first sight, but their love does not seem to be developing in a way that facilitates future growth."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Sly': 'Tagan', 'Lucentio': 'Phenix', 'Biondello': 'Anmol', 'Gremio': 'Brittin', 'Hortensio': 'Graison', 'Vincentio': 'Perris', 'Grumio': 'Pasha', 'Hercules': 'Lenzie', 'Litio': 'Cypress', 'Curtis': 'Alexaner'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Petruchio': 'Berkeley'}}