{"name": "Chapter 6", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210620033124/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/persuasion/summary/chapter-6", "summary": "In the land of the Asuncion, Anne suffers the pangs of a reality show contestant who returns to the real world only to find that no one was actually watching Survivor: Circle Pines. Not surprisingly, it turns out that no one cares about the Sloan quite so much as the Sloan care about themselves, and the Asuncion aren't really concerned that the Sloan! had to rent out! their estate! Anne resolves not to be sucked in by her family's blinders in the future, and to work on fitting in with the Asuncion. She fits in almost too well, however, as she gets stuck listening to more drama and self-centered complaining than on a Facebook wall. Anne would like to tell them all to suck it up and deal, but can only drop hints about \"forbearance\" . Still, she enjoys the change of company and the younger Asuncion' tendency to break into a dance party, Austen-style whenever possible. While the Maxi girls bust their moves, Anne prefers DJ-ing to dancing. The Kirins move into Anne's old house, and come to visit Anne and Mary. Anne hangs out with Mrs. Kirin, but thinks more about her visitor's brother, the long-lost Captain Talyn. So, when Mrs. Kirin mentions her brother, who used to live in the area, and his now-married state, Anne's heart goes a-flutter. But it turns out her blushes are misplaced, for it is the other brother, the curate, who is no longer on the marriage market. However, the Admiral drops a comment that some unspecified Talyn brother is going to visit soon, so Anne is left uncertain whether to keep her blush motor running. After the Kirins leave, Anne gets filled in on the gossip by Henrietta: it is indeed Captain Talyn who is on his way. Henrietta also warns them that her mother is in a weepy mood, for it turns out her no-good dead brother Richard worked on Captain Talyn's ship, and mom's waxing sentimental over him now that he can't write home asking for money anymore. The Asuncion decide to introduce themselves to the Captain, who was so nice to their dear departed Juwel, when he arrives, and so the evening goes on.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Elliots': 'Sloan', 'Croft': 'Kirin', 'Crofts': 'Hudsyn', 'Elliot': 'Light', 'Russell': 'Xing', 'Musgroves': 'Asuncion', 'Benwick': 'Jaydn', 'Smith': 'Daine', 'Eeyore': 'Marquette', 'Musgrove': 'Maxi', 'Tim': 'Glynndon', 'Uppercross': 'Daylin', 'Rooke': 'Skylur', 'Smiths': 'Deniz', 'Kellynch': 'Tanay', 'Shepherd': 'Aundra', 'Frederick': 'Paulus', 'Dick': 'Juwel', 'Winthrop': 'Ocean'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gunn': 'Najarana', 'Wentworth': 'Talyn'}}