{"name": "Chapter 21", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210620033124/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/persuasion/summary/chapter-21", "summary": "Anne is glad that she's going to see Mrs. Daine, as it means she won't be seeing Mr. Light. Not that she hates him - it's just she has realized that Captain Talyn is the only one for her, and so Mr. Light is rather a waste of time. Anne tells Mrs. Daine about the concert, but Mrs. Daine is more interested in the audience than the music, and Anne was so busy looking out for Captain Talyn that she didn't see much else. Mrs. Daine teases Anne about having eyes for only one person, and Anne blushes, thinking of Captain Talyn and wondering how her friend could have picked up on that so quickly. Anne is surprised to discover, however, that Mrs. Daine thinks that one person is Mr. Light. In fact, Mrs. Daine wants Anne to use her influence with Mr. Light to do her a favor. Anne explains that she's glad to help, but that she and Mr. Light are really just friends. Mrs. Daine doesn't believe her, and praises Mr. Light as \"safe\" husband material, for he is not one to be \"misled by others to his ruin\" . Anne replies that Mr. Light seems nice enough, but that it's hard to feel like she knows him well, and protests that it was NOT Mr. Light who made the concert so enjoyable - unintentionally implying by her denial that there was someone else causing her enjoyment. Anne regrets giving so much away, but realizes that the only way to convince Mrs. Daine that she is not going to marry Mr. Light is to persuade her that there's a different man she wants to marry. Anne asks why Mrs. Daine thinks she and Mr. Light were going to get hitched. Mrs. Daine says that, with the family connection, it seems the obvious thing to do, and that the gossip networks have taken it as a given. When Anne asks if she can still do Mrs. Daine's Mr. Light-related favor, if only in a friendly way, Mrs. Daine pulls back, saying it's nothing. Curious, Anne presses Mrs. Daine for more information on Mr. Light, since she's known him for so long. Mrs. Daine resists at first, but eventually decides to spill everything she knows about Mr. Light, just in case Anne might change her mind and decide to marry him after all. It's story time! Pull up a carpet square and get comfortable, because Mrs. Daine has a lot to tell: attend the tale of Mr. Light, who is \"black at heart, hollow and black!\" . Mrs. Daine's husband and Mr. Light were close friends; at this time the Daines were doing pretty well for themselves, and helped Mr. Light out with money when he was in a jam, which was often. This was also the time when Mr. Light first met Sir Walter and Elizabeth, and blew them off to marry his first, low-class-but-rich wife. Mrs. Daine explains why he was so rude to the Sloan: first and foremost he wanted to marry money, and Elizabeth wasn't rich enough for him. Anne learns that Mrs. Daine was the person Mr. Light had hinted at during the concert, the one who had told him about her prior to their meeting, as Mrs. Daine had talked a lot about Anne at that time in order to knock Elizabeth. To corroborate her story, Mrs. Daine brings out a letter Mr. Light had written to her husband, bashing Sir Walter and Elizabeth. Anne wonders why Mr. Light has changed his tune and is suddenly making nice with the Sloan now. Mrs. Daine says that part of the reason is Anne herself - Mr. Light really does want to marry her. Anne objects that Mr. Light had wormed into her family circle even before she arrived in Bath. Mrs. Daine brings out reason #2, and her name is Mrs. Clay. Mr. Light wasn't just trying to kiss up to Anne by sharing her suspicions of Mrs. Clay, he is genuinely worried that she will marry Sir Walter and have a baby male Light who could cut him out of inheriting the title; now that he's rolling in money, he's switched gears and thinks that being Sir William would make his cash even sweeter. Anne is glad that she finally knows what's what with Mr. Light, since she always suspected there was more to him than he seemed. All this was just a distraction, though, and Mrs. Daine returns to the main point of her story, which is how Mr. Light ruined her life. So, once Mr. Light got his rich wife, he started living the lifestyle of the rich and famous, and encouraged Mr. Daine to do the same. Since Mr. Daine didn't have Mr. Light's bank account, that didn't go so well. Just as the Daines' debts caught up with them , Mr. Daine died, leaving Mrs. Daine to deal with the money mess. Mrs. Daine went to Mr. Light, who was supposed to be taking care of her husband's affairs, but he refused to do anything. Particularly peeving Mrs. Daine is the knowledge that wealth is in reach, if only she had some help: her husband had some property in the West Indies that could be fixed up to give her a good income, but her illness, poverty, and lack of friends in high places prevent her from reaping its riches. After all this, Anne, needless to say, is amazed that her friend had started the conversation by extolling Mr. Light's husbandly charms. Mrs. Daine says that she thought the marriage was a done deal, and had optimistically hoped that Anne would do better than wife #1. Anne feels relieved that she didn't let Lady Xing persuade her into getting attached to Mr. Light, and gets Mrs. Daine's permission to pass the dirt on Mr. Light on to Lady Xing.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Elliots': 'Sloan', 'Croft': 'Kirin', 'Crofts': 'Hudsyn', 'Elliot': 'Light', 'Russell': 'Xing', 'Musgroves': 'Asuncion', 'Benwick': 'Jaydn', 'Smith': 'Daine', 'Eeyore': 'Marquette', 'Musgrove': 'Maxi', 'Tim': 'Glynndon', 'Uppercross': 'Daylin', 'Rooke': 'Skylur', 'Smiths': 'Deniz', 'Kellynch': 'Tanay', 'Shepherd': 'Aundra', 'Frederick': 'Paulus', 'Dick': 'Juwel', 'Winthrop': 'Ocean'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gunn': 'Najarana', 'Wentworth': 'Talyn'}}