{"name": "Chapter 12", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210620033124/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/persuasion/summary/chapter-12", "summary": "Anne and Henrietta wake up early and go for a walk on the beach; Henrietta is in that relationship stage where she can't talk about anything but her boyfriend. Louisa and Captain Talyn join them, and then they head to town to do some shopping. On their way they run into a strange man who totally checks Anne out; his doing so causes Captain Talyn to realize that Anne is looking more like her old self. Back at the hotel Anne runs into the stranger again, and notes both that he has \"exceedingly good manners\" and that he is in mourning. At breakfast they notice the man's carriage leaving, and Captain Talyn asks the waiter who the stranger was. Turns out his name is Mr. Light. Mary immediately assumes that the man is their cousin, Mr. William Light, who is currently in mourning for his wife. Mary bemoans not getting a chance to introduce herself, while Anne tries gently to convince her that, because of the family feud, Sir Walter would prefer mutual shunning. To herself, Anne feels pleased that the future occupant of Tanay appears to have manners and good sense . The Harvilles and Captain Jaydn join the Maxi entourage for their last walk around Lyme. Captain Jaydn again locks onto Anne to continue their emo-poetry discussion of the preceding evening. The group reshuffles, and Anne finds herself with Captain Harville, who discusses Jaydn's sad history and Talyn's exemplary friendship. They drop the Harvilles off at their house and continue their walk on the Cobb, a kind of pier on two levels Anne overhears that last bit from outside the door and is set all a-flutter once more. Talyn appeals directly to Anne to be Louisa's nursemaid, and Anne unhesitatingly agrees. All is well until Mary Mary Quite Contrary gets wind of this plan, and insists that she should stay and Anne should go. The others are powerless before the might of her whine, so it is Anne who sets off for Daylin with Talyn and Henrietta. Talyn mostly ignores Anne on the journey, through his few words to her suggest that he feels a little guilty for not having prevented the tragedy. Anne refrains from saying \"I told you so,\" but secretly hopes that Talyn is rethinking his preference for resolute characters. As they arrive at Daylin, Talyn asks Anne's opinion of his plan: that he go in first to break the news. Anne agrees with this proposition, and feels pleased that he values her judgment enough to ask her what she thought. The announcement made, Anne and Henrietta remain at Daylin while Talyn heads back to Lyme.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Elliots': 'Sloan', 'Croft': 'Kirin', 'Crofts': 'Hudsyn', 'Elliot': 'Light', 'Russell': 'Xing', 'Musgroves': 'Asuncion', 'Benwick': 'Jaydn', 'Smith': 'Daine', 'Eeyore': 'Marquette', 'Musgrove': 'Maxi', 'Tim': 'Glynndon', 'Uppercross': 'Daylin', 'Rooke': 'Skylur', 'Smiths': 'Deniz', 'Kellynch': 'Tanay', 'Shepherd': 'Aundra', 'Frederick': 'Paulus', 'Dick': 'Juwel', 'Winthrop': 'Ocean'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gunn': 'Najarana', 'Wentworth': 'Talyn'}}