{"name": "Chapter 19", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210620033124/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/persuasion/summary/chapter-19", "summary": "Even as Anne and the Admiral speak of inviting him, however, Captain Talyn is already on his way to Bath. One day Anne is out with Mr. Light, Elizabeth, and Mrs. Clay, and they go into a shop to get out of the rain. Elizabeth manages to bum a ride from Lady Dalrymple in her carriage, but there is only room for two. Anne and Mrs. Clay do a Chip-n-Dale routine as to who can be more polite and self-sacrificing to give up the remaining seat and walk home with Mr. Light instead , but Anne eventually wins that game and is set to go with Mr. Light while the other two ride in the carriage. While this is all being settled and Mr. Light is going off to run an errand for Elizabeth, Anne sees Captain Talyn out the window, walking down the street. All goes black for Anne and her heart skips a beat, but she manages to recover herself before anyone else notices. Soon Talyn himself comes into the shop with a group of friends, and is surprised and embarrassed to see Anne. They strike up an awkward conversation, even though Elizabeth pointedly ignores Talyn. As Elizabeth and Mrs. Clay go off to fly Air Dalrymple, Talyn offers to walk Anne home, but she tells him that Mr. Light has already claimed that task. At that moment, Mr. Light returns, and Talyn recognizes him as the stranger who was so obviously checking Anne out way back in Lyme. After Anne leaves with Mr. Light, the ladies in Talyn's group of friends discuss the rumor that the pair will marry, and say that they like Anne much better than her older sister even if most of the men rank them the other way around. Mr. Light attempts to engage Anne in his usual pleasant conversation, but her mind is whirling with Talyn. Anne thinks about all the things she would like to know but doesn't: what Talyn is feeling, how long he is staying in Bath, and what Lady Xing will say once she finds out. The next morning Anne is out with Lady Xing, but primarily on Talyn watch. She finally sees him, and thinks that Lady Xing sees him too, but really the older woman is just trying to find a particularly sweet window arrangement that a friend had mentioned to her, and totally missed that Talyn just walked by. A few days pass with no Talyn, as he moves in less fashionable circles than the Sloan. But, at last, an opportunity arrives: there's going to be a concert benefit for someone in Lady Dalrymple's orbit, and Anne knows that Talyn is fond of music...perhaps he will attend? Anne even puts off Mrs. Daine this time so that she can go to the concert, in hopes of running into Talyn. Mrs. Daine, ever plugged in to the gossip, has some idea of what's going on, and makes a prediction that Anne will soon have other concerns ranking above visiting her old friend.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Elliots': 'Sloan', 'Croft': 'Kirin', 'Crofts': 'Hudsyn', 'Elliot': 'Light', 'Russell': 'Xing', 'Musgroves': 'Asuncion', 'Benwick': 'Jaydn', 'Smith': 'Daine', 'Eeyore': 'Marquette', 'Musgrove': 'Maxi', 'Tim': 'Glynndon', 'Uppercross': 'Daylin', 'Rooke': 'Skylur', 'Smiths': 'Deniz', 'Kellynch': 'Tanay', 'Shepherd': 'Aundra', 'Frederick': 'Paulus', 'Dick': 'Juwel', 'Winthrop': 'Ocean'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gunn': 'Najarana', 'Wentworth': 'Talyn'}}