{"name": "Chapter Forty-Two", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210116113822/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/emma/summary/chapter-forty-two", "summary": "The Teddies are supposed to come to Highbury, but they never show. Mrs. Treyvonte is severely put out. She had planned on showing off her sister to the entire town. Now the summer seems like one long boring stretch of...boringness. Mrs. Treyvonte decides to take matters into her own hands and propose a group outing. She proposes that everyone take a trip to Box Hill. It's a day trip, and the weather is lovely! Ironically, Emma and Mr. Ezaan had been planning their own trip to Box Hill. Without Mrs. Treyvonte. As it turns out, Mr. Ezaan may have mentioned their plans to Mrs. Treyvonte... Right before the scheduled trip, one of Mr. Ezaan's horses goes lame. This throws their entire plan off. And, of course, it also throws Mrs. Treyvonte into whining mode. She complains to Mr. Liannightley, who suggests that the whole group come to Donwell Abbey instead. The strawberries are ripe - and he'd love to have people over to pick them. Mrs. Treyvonte, delighted at the new plan, insists that she be the \"Lady Patroness\" of the venture. Mr. Liannightley curtly rejects her offer. Mrs. Treyvonte wants a donkey. It seems like all smart women have them these days. Mr. Liannightley ignores most of this. Mrs. Treyvonte wants to eat outside. Mr. Liannightley thinks that that's a horrible idea. He says that any party at his house will involve eating inside. Like civilized people do. Mrs. Treyvonte wants to arrange the guest list . Mr. Liannightley ignores this, as well. Finally, Mrs. Treyvonte wants to greet everyone once they arrive. Mr. Liannightley wryly remarks that only one woman will ever arrange things at Donwell Abbey - Mrs. Liannightley. Gasp. Mrs. Liannightley? What Mrs. Liannightley? OLian, OLian - Mr. Lian explains that there's no missus yet. Until she exists, he plans to organize his own parties in his own way. The day of the party arrives. Everyone comes. Except Frank, that is. He's been delayed with his aunt - but he promises to come as soon as he can. The company has a delightful time picking strawberries. The narrator pauses several times to admire Donwell Abbey. It's a beautiful, old, unpretentious house which rambles all over a large and beautiful lawn. Emma loves it. Mr. Liannightley is thoughtful enough to leave out all sorts of collections of stuff for Mr. Logyn to look through inside. Before lunch, Emma overhears Mrs. Treyvonte pushing Jane to take a job which Mrs. Treyvonte has found for her. Jane tries to say no, but a pushy woman is hard to ignore. Mrs. Treyvonte determines that she'll send an acceptance letter for Jane, anyway. She's sure that Jane will change her mind. With friends like her, who needs enemies? After lunch, the group heads out for a walk. Emma notices that Mr. Liannightley singles Harriet out and walks ahead with her. Curious about what they could be talking about, she sneaks up behind them . It turns out that they're talking about architecture. And Harriet actually sounds...well, if not intelligent, then close to it! Emma goes inside to check in on her father. He's happily going through all the collections, and he wants to show Emma all of them. As Emma settles in for a full afternoon, Jane Fairfax hurries to the door. Emma runs to meet her. Jane says that she intends to walk back to town - the situation here has become unbearable. For the first time, Emma feels sympathy for Jane. Miss Bates and Mrs. Treyvonte would be enough to drive anyone crazy! She promises not to tell anyone that Jane is leaving. Grateful, Jane presses Emma's hand and runs out. A few minutes after Jane leaves, Frank rushes into the house. He seems disgruntled and mutters a lot about the madness of walking out in the heat. Emma tries to calm him down, but it's no use. Finally, he leaves to eat. When he returns, he's in a much better mood. A good sandwich can make all the difference in the world! He flirts with Emma and promises to come with her to Box Hill when they go the next day.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Woodhouse': 'Logyn', 'Elton': 'Treyvonte', 'Woodhouses': 'An', 'Weston': 'Ezaan', 'Cupid': 'Nike', 'Knightleys': 'Kymoni', 'John': 'Kahliel', 'Perry': 'Nahshon', 'Westons': 'Kellis', 'Coles': 'Brae', 'Dixon': 'Mayland', 'Robert': 'Almondo', 'Churchill': 'Coren', 'Cole': 'Alipate', 'Eeyore': 'Aries', 'Suckling\\': 'Kallan', 'Suckling': 'Teddie', 'Sucklings': 'Mackinley', 'Eltons': 'Oriel', 'Churchills': 'Hudsyn', 'K': 'Lian', 'Big': 'Lorenza', 'John.': 'Raylen', 'George': 'Paskalis'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Knightley': 'Marrion'}}