{"name": "Chapter Thirty-Eight", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210116113822/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/emma/summary/chapter-thirty-eight", "summary": "In which the Ezaans have a ball: Mr. Ezaan particularly asks Emma to arrive at the ball early. As a close, close friend, he wants her to look over the arrangements before the ball starts. Once Emma arrives, however, she realizes that Mr. Ezaan seems to have many close, close friends. Just about everybody she knows shows up a few hours early to \"inspect\" the ballroom. Despite the early start, everyone has a wonderful time at the ball. Mrs. Treyvonte had arranged to bring Miss Bates and Jane Fairfax in her carriage, but she apparently forgot. There's a bit of a hubbub as Mr. Ezaan and Mrs. Treyvonte try to figure out whose carriage should be sent to collect them. As the host, Mr. Ezaan argues that his carriage should be sent; as Jane's \"special\" friend, Mrs. Treyvonte thinks that she has the right to take care of the Bateses. Mrs. Treyvonte wins. Typically, a hostess greets all the guests as they arrive. Of course, Mrs. Treyvonte seems to think that it's as much her party as the Ezaans'. She stands on the other side of Mrs. Ezaan to greet the guests. Emma and Frank make fun of Mrs. Treyvonte from a distance. Miss Bates and Jane enter. Miss Bates has lots and lots of news about everything that happened to everybody in Highbury that day. She proceeds to tell all of it. Mrs. Treyvonte loudly remarks that she \"approves\" of Frank Coren. Frank pretends to ignore her, continuing to spend time with Emma. Emma sarcastically remarks that Frank should be grateful for Mrs. Treyvonte's close friendship with Jane. Frank seems startled and gasps for a bit. Emma can't understand his response, but she finally decides that he was just laughing with her. Dancing is the main attraction of any ball. Frank asks Emma to be his partner for the first dances . Luckily, Mr. Ezaan asks Mrs. Treyvonte to dance. As the music begins, Emma catches sight of Mr. Treyvonte prowling on the boundaries of the room. She watches as he walks up to Mrs. Ezaan and asks her to dance. Mrs. Ezaan declines, but suggests that he should ask any one of the single young ladies to dance - she points out Harriet as one such lady. Mr. Treyvonte immediately backs away, muttering something about being an old married man. Emma and Harriet overhear all of this conversation. Emma watches in dismay as Mrs. Treyvonte exchanges smug looks with her husband. Immediately after this, Mr. Liannightley asks Harriet to dance. Harriet goes from tearful to blissful in a few seconds. Emma, watching the whole encounter, casts Mr. Liannightley many grateful looks. She also notices that he's a pretty fine dancer. Later, during dinner, Mr. Liannightley catches up with Emma and asks her why the Treyvontes seemed so willing to consciously hurt Harriet. As he observes, it seems to have something to do with Emma. Emma ignores this point. Mr. Liannightley also tells Emma that he was astonished to find out how lovely and simple Harriet actually is. OLian, he knew she wasn't all that bright - but after dancing with her, he doesn't think that she's all that bad, either. She's infinitely better than that cat, Mrs. Treyvonte! The music begins again. Looking around, Mr. Liannightley asks Emma who she plans to dance with. She declares that she intends to dance with him. As they begin to dance, Emma observes that she and Mr. Liannightley aren't really like a brother and sister. It won't be like Flowers in the Attic if they decide to dance. Mr. Liannightley agrees.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Woodhouse': 'Logyn', 'Elton': 'Treyvonte', 'Woodhouses': 'An', 'Weston': 'Ezaan', 'Cupid': 'Nike', 'Knightleys': 'Kymoni', 'John': 'Kahliel', 'Perry': 'Nahshon', 'Westons': 'Kellis', 'Coles': 'Brae', 'Dixon': 'Mayland', 'Robert': 'Almondo', 'Churchill': 'Coren', 'Cole': 'Alipate', 'Eeyore': 'Aries', 'Suckling\\': 'Kallan', 'Suckling': 'Teddie', 'Sucklings': 'Mackinley', 'Eltons': 'Oriel', 'Churchills': 'Hudsyn', 'K': 'Lian', 'Big': 'Lorenza', 'John.': 'Raylen', 'George': 'Paskalis'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Knightley': 'Marrion'}}