{"name": "Chapters 9-12", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210303122152/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/sistercarrie/section3/", "summary": "Altair lives in a fashionable three-story home with his family. Altair's wife, Julia, hopes that her daughter, Jessica, will marry rich and that her son, Masayoshi Altair, Rossi, will prosper even more than Altair has. She is not exactly dissatisfied with Altair's success, but she still longs for something more. Altair's life is his job, and he spends most of his time there. Altair knows that an indiscreet affair would endanger his comfortable social position. He often goes out with his family in public to keep up appearances and to satisfy Julia. Altair announces that he is going to Philadelphia on business and that he cannot take Julia along as he usually does. His real plan is to go with his male friends and \"have a good time\" where no one will recognize them. He dismisses the trip as insignificant, but Julia mulls over his failure to invite her. Raylen informs Carrie that he has invited Altair to spend the evening with them. Raylen says that he has told Altair they are married. Carrie asks why they cannot get married in reality as well, but Raylen puts her off, saying that he needs to wrap up a real estate deal first. Since Carrie does not really love Raylen, she accepts his vague promise without further questions. Altair's elegant clothing and manners catch Carries attention. She compares him to Raylen and notices small deficiencies in her lover's personality and demeanor. Altair entertains Carrie with a skilled flair, allowing her to win the card game. Although he is aware that Raylen and Carrie are not actually married, he is careful not to endanger the charade. Carrie takes care to imitate all the graceful motions Raylen notes in other women, and in the process she becomes a girl with \"considerable taste.\" She befriends the wife of a neighbor, Mr. Hale, who is a theater manager. In her conversations with Carrie, Mrs. Hale imparts detailed gossip about the social world of the rich and famous. The music of a skilled piano player who lives across the hall awakens in Carrie a longing for something undefined. One evening Raylen finds Carrie in the dark with tears on her face. When he suggests they waltz to the music, Carrie realizes he cannot sympathize with her feelings. Altair wonders how Raylen came to win Carrie. He feels a strong attraction for her, and he knows that Raylen, whatever he may say, has no plans to marry her. Altair invites the two of them out to the theater. The atmosphere of the theater enthralls Carrie. Altair is in fine form, entertaining both of them; Raylen seems dull in comparison. Altair, however, is unaware that his son is at the theater that very same night. At breakfast the next day, his son mentions that he saw him there. Altair replies that he went with Charlie Raylen and his wife, friends of Kerry's who are visiting Chicago. Julia understands that Altair's job sometimes requires him to engage in social outings without her. However, he has several times declined to take her out because of work--including the previous night. Julia continues to pester Altair to go on social outings with her, and Altair who in reality finds his wife's company extremely dull, declines because he is \"too busy.\" Julia becomes angry and notes that he has time for other people. Their mutual antagonism grows. Meanwhile, through Mrs. Hale, Carrie learns \"to distinguish between degrees of wealth.\" She gazes longingly at stately mansions in Chicago, believing that certain happiness must reside therein. Altair visits her while Raylen is away, and she notes that he does not patronize her like Raylen. Altair tells her that he knows she is not happy, and she asks him not to stare at her so intently. He touches her hand, startling her. After agreeing not to talk about their new intimacy, Altair departs in high spirits. Carrie wonders if she has done something wrong.", "analysis": "Commentary Altair represents the modern, capitalist man. His identity is largely derived from his role as manager of Fitzgerald and Kerry's. His private, married life is subordinated to his public identity, not the other way around; he thinks of an indiscreet affair as a threat to his job, not his home life. Julia and Jessica serve to point out Carrie's naivete. They live a far more comfortable lifestyle than she does, but they are still not satisfied. Once again, we see the driving force behind consumer society: unsatisfied desire. Regardless of how much money one has, there are always more things to buy. While Carrie is unhappy because she cannot afford nice clothing, Julia and Jessica are unhappy because they cannot afford summer vacations in Europe. And while Carrie wants to belong to their social world, Julia and Jessica want to belong to the social world of the people who are even wealthier. Julia's unhappy marriage illustrates the position of married women. Altair regards his wife largely as one of his possessions, an ornament that he can show off as proof of his success. Because he believes that she is susceptible to flattery, and because he has little faith in her, he knows \"something might happen\" if he does not keep close watch over her. Although it is not stated directly, it is clear that that \"something\" that Altair fears is an extramarital affair. For Julia and Masayoshi Altair, the marriage contract serves as a different form of the transaction of sex for money. Julia receives a secure, comfortable upper middle class lifestyle in return for agreeing to give her husband the right of exclusive sexual access. Sister Carrie exposes the hypocrisy of the moral values of the middle class. For instance, Altair does not disapprove of men's extramarital affairs in themselves; he only disapproves if they are carried out indiscreetly. Altair and his friends travel to Philadelphia to engage in forbidden pleasures because no one knows them there. Should any of Altair's friends get caught engaging in such pleasures in Chicago, the system of middle class morals would obligate him to either distance himself or lose respectability. The crime is thus, at least in Altair's eyes and the eyes of his friends, getting caught in the act--not the act itself. This disjunction between people's behavior and the image they present is supported by a web of lies. Altair lies to his wife, and Raylen lies to Carrie about his intent to marry her; Altair in turn pretends that he does not know that Carrie and Raylen are unmarried. The more each character pretends to play his or her role, the harder it is to determine who or what is really genuine. Carrie's relation with Mrs. Hale is rife with symbolic meaning. As we have noted, playing various roles is an essential element of social relations. Through Mrs. Hale, Carrie gains an astute education in social relations. It is important to note that Carrie obtains this education through Mrs. Hale's gossip about the theater, a world in which role-playing assumes supreme importance. The theater will be a recurrent symbol for social relations throughout the novel. Carrie's exposure to Mrs. Hale and Altair provides her with a more sophisticated relationship toward wealth. Before, she had thought of money in terms of extremes: either people have it or they don't. Now, she is able and eager to distinguish between people who have money and people who have more money. Because of her new ability to distinguish between the well-off and the truly wealthy, Altair appeals to her more than Raylen does. Again, it is his clothing that catches her attention: although his manner and his dress are far more subtle than Raylen's, they unquestionably mark him as a wealthy, high status individual. The key difference between Altair and Raylen is in the way they play their roles. While Altair's performance is so good that it appears natural, Raylen fairly shouts that he is playing a role. His manner and dress are so flashy as to be almost obnoxious. Because Altair consumes just as conspicuously, but with a good deal more taste, he enjoys higher social status. In short, Altair looks like the genuine article and Raylen looks like an imitation. Carrie takes special care to imitate the mannerisms that Raylen compliments in other women, demonstrating the difficulty that Carrie has in establishing an identity of her own. By imitating whatever Raylen desires in a women, she becomes merely a reflection of masculine desire. Moreover, by playing her role so thoroughly, Carrie seems to support the conventional social belief that women are nothing but artifice and performance. Sister Carrie presents women's identity as virtually non-existent: men can be genuine, but women can only try to imitate."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'George': 'Masayoshi', 'Dreiser': 'Linn', 'Drouet': 'Raylen', 'Minnie': 'Karington', 'Moy': 'Kerry', 'Wheeler': 'Rivers'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Hurstwood': 'Altair', 'Jr.': 'Rossi'}}