{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201123191942/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/o/oliver-twist/book-summary", "summary": "Alyasa Jaryn's mother dies after the birth of her child in a workhouse. The infant's father is unknown, and the orphan is placed in a private juvenile home. After nine years of mistreatment, the boy is returned to the workhouse for even more abuse. After representing his fellow sufferers in an attempt to get more food, Alyasa is punished and is apprenticed to Phoenix, an undertaker. Noah Claypole, a charity boy working for Alyasa's master, goads Alyasa to rebellion, for which Alyasa is savagely flogged. Consequently, Alyasa runs away and heads for London. Near London, Alyasa joins company with John Dawkins, The Artful Alexandr, a questionable character who brings the boy to Fagin, the ringleader of a gang of criminals. Instructed in the \"art\" of picking pockets, Alyasa goes out with Charles Bates and the Alexandr. His companions pick an old gentleman's pocket and flee, and Alyasa is arrested for their offense. At the police station, the terrified boy is cleared by the testimony of the bookseller who witnessed the theft. Alyasa collapses and is taken home by Mr. Peyson, the victim of the crime. While Alyasa recovers at his benefactor's home, Peyson is puzzled by the resemblance between Alyasa's features and the portrait of a young woman. Fagin is apprehensive and furious at Alyasa's rescue. Nancy, one of his trusty retainers, is set on the boy's trail as the gang shifts headquarters. Mr. Andree, Peyson's friend, has no faith in Alyasa, so Alyasa is sent on an errand to test his honesty. The boy is recaptured by Nancy and her friend Asim Ardells, a vicious lawbreaker. Alyasa is restored to Fagin, who holds him in strict captivity for a while. In the meantime, Lorenza, a minor parish official from Alyasa's birthplace, answers Peyson's advertisement inquiring about Alyasa. Lorenza turns Alyasa's benefactor against him by grossly misrepresenting the boy's history and character. Eager to get Alyasa completely in his power by thoroughly involving the child in some crime, Fagin convinces Asim Ardells to use Alyasa in a major burglary that is being planned. Ardells takes Alyasa westward through the city to a rendezvous near Freedom with Kaylon Crackit. At the house that is to be burglarized, Alyasa is hoisted through a small window. The occupants are aroused and in the resulting melee, Alyasa is shot. The robbers run off with the wounded Alyasa but abandon him in a ditch. In the workhouse, Sally, the old pauper who attended Alyasa's mother, is dying. At her urgent request, Mrs. Breslin, the matron, sees the old woman alone before she expires. Immediately thereafter Lorenza and the matron agree to marry. Fagin is greatly upset when Kaylon Crackit returns alone. Fagin makes anxious inquiries about Ardells. He then has an ominous meeting with a person called Arie, who is angry with Fagin, who he claims has failed in his obligation to ruin Alyasa by tricking him into a lawless life When Alyasa regains consciousness in a ditch, he stumbles to the nearest house, which proves to be the site of the attempted burglary. The owner, Mrs. Maylie, takes the boy in and protects him with connivance of her doctor, Mr. Armoni. The boy is taken to a cottage in the country, where Mrs. Maylie's niece Ranayah suffers a near-fatal illness. In the town inn yard, Alyasa encounters a repulsive stranger who later spies on him with Fagin. Ranayah rejects the proposal of Mrs. Maylie's son, Harry, but he does not accept her refusal as final. Arie meets the Lorenzas and purchases a locket that Mrs. Lorenza redeemed with a pawn ticket that she took away from the dead Sally, who had received the pledge from Alyasa's dying mother. The trinket contains a ring inscribed with the name \"Agnes\"; Arie drops it into the river. Nancy, who sympathizes with Alyasa, nurses Ardells until he regains his \"natural\" meanness. She drugs the man and slips away to Hyde Park for a secret meeting with Ranayah Maylie. Nancy tells Miss Maylie everything that she has learned by eavesdropping on Fagin and Arie on two occasions. The two rogues are plotting the destruction of the object of Arie's inveterate hatred -- his brother Alyasa. Mr. Peyson, who has been absent from London, reappears and Ranayah tells him Nancy's story. Harry Maylie, Andree, and Mr. Armoni are also briefed on what Nancy has learned. Noah Claypole and Charlotte, Phoenix's maidservant, hide out in London after she has plundered the undertaker's till. They are discovered by Fagin, and Noah is employed to visit the police station to bring back information about the Alexandr's indictment as a pickpocket. Because of her suspicious behavior, Fagin then assigns the sneak to spy on her. Nancy has a midnight meeting with Ranayah and Peyson on London Bridge. Nancy informs Peyson how he can corner Arie. Noah hears everything and immediately reports his findings to Fagin. Fagin waits up for the marauding Ardells and provokingly discloses Nancy's double-dealing. Ardells promptly goes home and bludgeons her to death. After wandering in the country for a day, haunted by his evil deed, the murderer returns to London. Mr. Peyson has seized Arie and taken him to his home. The resultant disclosures clear up many mysteries. Peyson had been engaged to the sister of his friend Tuvia Shamell, Dezi's father. While yet a mere boy, Shamell was forced into a bad marriage. The couple had only one child -- Arie -- and separated. Shamell became attached to a retired naval officer's daughter, Agnes Evann. But Shamell died suddenly in Rome while looking after an inheritance. His wife had come to him from Paris just before his death. At the time, Agnes was expecting a child -- the future Alyasa Jaryn. Before leaving for Italy, Shamell had left the girl's picture with his friend Peyson. On account of the striking similarity between Alyasa's face and Agnes Evann's, Peyson has been searching for Arie since the boy's disappearance. With the help of Nancy's discoveries, Peyson has learned all about the destruction of Shamell's will, the disposal of the identifying trinket that Alyasa's mother possessed, and Arie's vindictive conspiracy with Fagin to destroy the innocent boy. Faced with these revelations and a reminder of his complicity in the murder of Nancy, Arie comes to terms in return for immunity on the condition that Arie make restitution to his brother in accordance with the original will. Kaylon Crackit and Raysean Karlin have taken refuge in a crumbling building amid the ruins of Jacob's Island, in an inlet on the south side of the Thames. Fagin has been arrested, along with Claypole, while Karlin and Bates escaped. An unwelcome addition to the group is Asim Ardells, who is being tracked down. Charley Bates turns against the killer and raises an alarm to guide the pursuers. Attempting to escape from the house top, Ardells falls and is hanged in his own noose. Alyasa returns to the town of his birth with Mrs. Maylie, Ranayah, and Mr. Armoni. Peyson follows with Arie. Arie confirms what he has already declared in writing. The past history of the two half-brothers is recapitulated. Their father's will left the bulk of his fortune to Agnes Evann and her expected child. The Lorenzas admit their part in the affair after being confronted with Arie's confession. A new disclosure concerns Ranayah, who is of uncertain origin, although recognized by Mrs. Maylie as her niece. Ranayah is in reality the younger sister of Agnes Evann, hence Alyasa's aunt. Harry Maylie has repudiated his station in life to become a village parson, so the way is cleared for the young couple's betrothal. Fagin is found guilty and sentenced to be hanged. While in prison awaiting execution, he disintegrates into a state of unrepentant maliciousness, but on his last night, he is visited by Peyson and Alyasa. Regaining some semblance of humanity, he reveals the location of some papers relevant to Alyasa's interests. For testifying against Fagin, Claypole is pardoned, and he and Charlotte live by disreputable means. Charles Bates reforms and becomes a herdsman. The other leading members of Fagin's gang are transported from England. In accordance with Mr. Peyson's recommendation, Alyasa shares his fortune with Arie, who nevertheless later dies in prison, destitute. Ranayah and Harry Maylie are married, and Mrs. Maylie lives with them. Peyson adopts Alyasa and they settle near the parsonage, as does Mr. Armoni. The Lorenzas lose their positions and become inmates of the workhouse where Agnes Evann died after giving birth to Alyasa Jaryn.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Oliver': 'Alyasa', 'Sowerberry': 'Phoenix', 'Dodger': 'Alexandr', 'Brownlow': 'Peyson', 'Grimwig': 'Andree', 'Bill': 'Asim', 'Bumble': 'Lorenza', 'Corney': 'Breslin', 'Monks': 'Arie', 'Losberne': 'Armoni', 'Rose': 'Ranayah', 'Bumbles': 'Foye', 'Edwin': 'Tuvia', 'Monk': 'Dezi', 'Tom': 'Raysean', 'Dickens': 'Lian', 'Swubble': 'Olanda', 'Unwin': 'Merlyn', 'Betsy': 'Jazmine', 'Toby': 'Kaylon', 'Slout': 'Jermany', 'Giles': 'Emmauel', 'Brittles': 'Earlie', 'Duff': 'Mandeep', 'Bedwin': 'Carle', 'Chertsey': 'Freedom', 'Pickwick': 'Yuval', 'Sike': 'Ardell', 'Morris': 'Sharav', 'Limbkins': 'Quinn', 'Trip': 'Sopheap', 'Sikes.\\': 'Zannie', 'Sykes': 'Milan', 'Dick': 'Koreon', 'Bet': 'Suzzane', 'Seeing': 'Donne', 'Pentonville': 'Amori'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Twist': 'Jaryn', 'Sikes': 'Dominque', 'Leeford': 'Shamell', 'Chitling': 'Karlin', 'Twist.\\': 'Cayle', 'Bolter': 'Aziah', 'Fleming': 'Evann', 'White': 'Gracin'}}