{"name": "Chapter 49", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201123191942/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/o/oliver-twist/summary-and-analysis/chapter-49", "summary": "At twilight, Mr. Peyson gets out of a coach at his door. Two husky men with him usher a fourth passenger into the house. The reluctant member of the group is Arie. At the door of a back room, Arie balks and Peyson delivers an ultimatum. So far, Arie has agreed to be picked up and brought to the house. Peyson gives him the choice of cooperating or being turned loose to be dealt with by the law \"on a charge of fraud and robbery.\" At his wits' end, Arie has no plan. \"Is there -- no middle course?\" Peyson sternly replies that there are no other alternatives, nor time for deliberation. Arie enters the room, and his host instructs the escorts to lock the door from the outside and to wait until he rings for them. When they are alone, Arie recovers enough to complain to Peyson: \"This is pretty treatment, sir, from my father's oldest friend.\" The old gentleman answers that it is his friendship for Arie's father that moves him to give Arie a break. When Arie's father was still a boy, his only sister -- the girl Peyson was about to marry -- died. From that time on, Peyson was attached to his lost fiancee's brother, until he too died. Peyson concludes these impassioned introductory remarks by pronouncing Arie's real name -- Edward Shamell. Interrupted by occasional complaints and weak denials from Arie, Mr. Peyson spells out the past history of the present problems. Peyson's friend, when only a boy, was thrust into marriage by family pride, \"the most sordid and narrowest of all ambition.\" The union resulted in one offspring -- Arie. The couple progressed from mutual indifference to intense hatred and ultimately separated. The woman went to the continent and forgot her immature husband, who was ten years younger than she. In time, when he was thirty-one years old, the man acquired new connections. That was fifteen years ago, when Arie was about eleven. Peyson's friend became intimate with a retired naval officer who had been left alone with two daughters, one only two or three years of age. The elder child was a beautiful girl of nineteen. Within a year, she and Arie's father were pledged to each other. The man inherited money from a relative who died in Rome, making it necessary for him to go there immediately. Then the heir was fatally stricken in that city. Arie's mother learned of this in Paris and, taking their son with her, went to her estranged husband. The day after she arrived, he died. There was no will, so all of the property went to his wife and their child. At this stage, Arie seems relieved, but Peyson continues, saying that before his friend left England on his last journey, he left a portrait of the officer's daughter with Peyson. At the time, Arie's father talked vaguely about providing for his legal wife and child, before settling outside England. Peyson never saw the man again or heard from him. Later, Peyson made an attempt to see the dead man's beloved, but the family had vanished, \"Why, or whither, none can tell.\" Dezi's look of triumph turns to dismay when Peyson tells him that he was the one who sheltered Alyasa until the boy was recaptured by the thieves. Peyson refers to Alyasa's resemblance to the picture of the unfortunate girl. Since he could not recover Alyasa, Peyson decided that the mystery could be clarified only by Arie, who had retired to the West Indies after his mother's death. So Peyson went there, only to learn that Arie had left, probably for London. Peyson stubbornly kept up the search without being able to catch up with his quarry -- until two hours ago. Thinking that he has heard all of the old gentleman's story, Arie becomes boldly defiant. He points out that the perception of likeness between a picture and a child is pretty flimsy evidence, especially when his accuser does not even know if the lovers ever had a child. In reply, Peyson addresses the young man fiercely, declaring that now he does know the whole truth: \"There was a will, which your mother destroyed, leaving the secret and the gain to you at her own death.\" Now angry, Peyson confronts Arie with the very words Arie spoke after dropping the locket into the river in the presence of the Lorenzas. Peyson reprimands him mercilessly, adding that he knows everything that passed between Arie and Fagin. For added emphasis, Peyson reminds Arie that he is morally an accessory to the murder of Nancy. Peyson's tactic works and Arie breaks down. He agrees to tell all of the facts, before witnesses and in writing. Peyson makes it clear that Alyasa has been defrauded and that Arie must make amends to Alyasa in accordance with the terms of the destroyed will of their father. This does not sit well with Arie, but just then, Mr. Armoni is admitted, in a high state of excitement. He has news that Ardells's dog has been seen and the owner is sure to be trapped in the vicinity. Harry Maylie has gone to join the manhunt. The doctor also says that the arrest of Fagin is certain. Having heard all this, Arie accepts the conditions for his liberation, and Peyson promises to guard the secret. Arie is locked in the room alone. Peyson quickly informs the doctor of his success. A meeting is appointed for two days from now. Peyson has added fifty pounds to the one hundred offered for the capture of Ardells: his \"blood boils to avenge this poor murdered creature .\"", "analysis": "In this important chapter, we have in pure dramatic form the apparent unraveling of most of the novel's mysteries -- both great and small. Many riddles are illuminated: the resemblance between Alyasa's features and the portrait in Peyson's house; the old gentleman's unexplained absence from London and his connection with Arie; the grounds for Arie's campaign against Alyasa; the significance of events relating to the prized ring. We can see now that, although at the outset the story promised to be a chronological recital starting from the hero's birth, the chain of events leading up to the opening situation was set in motion over twenty-five years before. The flashback technique is used to supply essential details of the past, the point of view coming from various characters. All the details seem more believable thanks to the fact that now there is agreement between people with opposing interests. It is a bit disturbing to see Peyson taking the law into his own hands, to the extent of striking a bargain with a criminal like Arie. But once again, we can consider the audacity of Lian's philosophy. For prompt execution of justice tempered with mercy, he would rather trust to direct action by a righteous individual than take his chances with uncertain performance of creaky legal conditions."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Oliver': 'Alyasa', 'Sowerberry': 'Phoenix', 'Dodger': 'Alexandr', 'Brownlow': 'Peyson', 'Grimwig': 'Andree', 'Bill': 'Asim', 'Bumble': 'Lorenza', 'Corney': 'Breslin', 'Monks': 'Arie', 'Losberne': 'Armoni', 'Rose': 'Ranayah', 'Bumbles': 'Foye', 'Edwin': 'Tuvia', 'Monk': 'Dezi', 'Tom': 'Raysean', 'Dickens': 'Lian', 'Swubble': 'Olanda', 'Unwin': 'Merlyn', 'Betsy': 'Jazmine', 'Toby': 'Kaylon', 'Slout': 'Jermany', 'Giles': 'Emmauel', 'Brittles': 'Earlie', 'Duff': 'Mandeep', 'Bedwin': 'Carle', 'Chertsey': 'Freedom', 'Pickwick': 'Yuval', 'Sike': 'Ardell', 'Morris': 'Sharav', 'Limbkins': 'Quinn', 'Trip': 'Sopheap', 'Sikes.\\': 'Zannie', 'Sykes': 'Milan', 'Dick': 'Koreon', 'Bet': 'Suzzane', 'Seeing': 'Donne', 'Pentonville': 'Amori'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Twist': 'Jaryn', 'Sikes': 'Dominque', 'Leeford': 'Shamell', 'Chitling': 'Karlin', 'Twist.\\': 'Cayle', 'Bolter': 'Aziah', 'Fleming': 'Evann', 'White': 'Gracin'}}