{"name": "Chapter 51", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201123191942/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/o/oliver-twist/summary-and-analysis/chapter-51", "summary": "Two days later, a carriage is traveling toward Alyasa's birthplace. Alyasa is riding in the vehicle with Mrs. Maylie, Ranayah, Mr. Armoni, and Mrs. Carle. Mr. Peyson is following with another person in a post-chaise. The results of Peyson's activities have been revealed to Alyasa and the ladies, but there are still enough loose ends to allow for great suspense. At the same time, knowledge of the frightful developments of the last few days has been kept from them. As he begins to recognize familiar spots, Alyasa is carried away with excitement. One of his first thoughts is for little Koreon. Alyasa voices his determination to relieve his friend and to provide for him the sort of life that Alyasa himself enjoyed at the Maylies' country retreat. Their arrival in the town is a triumphal entry, with Alyasa exclaiming at all the well-known sights. There is \"everything as if he had left it but yesterday,\" but it is a joyous return. The party go to the best hotel, where they are gallantly received by Mr. Andree. All arrangements for rooms and dinner have been made. At dinner, the air of mystery and tension still prevails, especially when Peyson does not join the party. Mr. Armoni and Andree bustle in and out, withdrawing to talk. Mrs. Maylie is sent for and returns an hour later with swollen eyes. Ranayah and Alyasa seem to have been forgotten. Finally, at nine o'clock in the evening, the gentlemen bring another man into the room. Alyasa is taken aback. He had expected to see a brother, but this is the man he met in the market town and later saw looking in his window with Fagin. Mr. Peyson walks up with papers, informing Arie that although the instruments have been executed in London, it is necessary to review the details here. Arie asks that the business be settled quickly. Mr. Peyson accordingly opens the session: \"This child is your half-brother; the illegitimate son of your father, my dear friend Tuvia Shamell, by poor young Agnes Evann, who died in giving him birth.\" Arie sarcastically corroborates this and, as agreed, begins a summary of the matter recorded in the papers. He fills in the details concerning his father's death. Tuvia Shamell had left two papers, dated when he first became ill. They were addressed to Mr. Peyson with the instructions that they not be mailed until after the writer's death. The first paper was a letter to Agnes Evann, who was then several months pregnant. The girl had trusted in Shamell's guarded explanation that there was some obstacle to an immediate marriage. He alluded to his gift of a locket and a ring with a blank left for his name to be engraved. The letter was filled with incoherent, repetitious professions of regret and honorable motives. Alyasa bursts into tears as Arie pauses in his story. Peyson takes up the subject of the will. The dying father had cited the misery his wife caused him and the wicked nature of his son, Edward, \"who had been trained to hate him.\" So he left to each of them an annuity of eight hundred pounds. The bulk of the property was to be divided between Agnes Evann and their expected child, if the child should live until its adulthood. A girl would inherit unconditionally. A boy would receive the money only if \"in his minority he should never have stained his name with any public act of dishonor, meanness, cowardice, or wrong.\" This last provision was an expression of confidence that a son of Agnes Evann's would follow in her honest goodness. If the expectation was not fulfilled, then the legacy would go to Arie, as the senior nominee in the will. Arie then reports that his mother burned the will, but she kept the letter in case it should ever be necessary to document the irregular relationship between Shamell and Agnes. The girl confessed to her father, who then took his family to Wales and changed his name. Agnes ran away from home, and her father searched for her until he became convinced that she had committed suicide. Crushed, the man returned home and died. Peyson remarks that years later, Edward Shamell's mother came to him. At the age of eighteen, her son had robbed her and then fled to London, where he spent two years among the outcasts of society. The woman was incurably ill and anxious to reclaim her son. Ultimately he rejoined her in France. Arie picks up the narrative by offering the information that his mother, before she died, told him all of the secrets. She was not persuaded that Agnes had taken her life, but was obsessed with the notion that there was a male child living. The dying woman's son swore to her that if he ever found such a child, he would hunt down his half-brother with unwavering hatred. \"She was right. . . . I began well.\" Peyson adds that Fagin was a former associate of Arie's and was well paid to contrive Alyasa's destruction. Part of the fee was to be refunded if the boy was rescued, and for that reason the two plotters went to identify him in the country. Now Peyson wants to hear about the locket and ring, and Arie briefly states the facts. Andree leads in Mr. and Mrs. Lorenza. The couple flatly deny any knowledge of Arie or of a locket and ring. Next, two old pauper women are brought in. They were listening outside the door when Sally died and know that the matron took a paper from the corpse and redeemed a locket and ring from a pawnshop the following day. Sally had also told them that the girl, driven by a sense of approaching death, was striving to reach her lover's grave. Implicated by this testimony, Mrs. Lorenza admits everything. Peyson states his determination to see that neither of the Lorenzas ever holds another position of trust. Lorenza cannot at first understand that he is going to lose his \"Porochial office.\" He goes out railing at the law that \"supposes that your wife acts under your direction.\" Now, Peyson hints that there is something coming that concerns Ranayah. When he asks what became of Agnes's younger sister, Arie supplies the answer: After the death of the old officer, the child was cared for by some country folk. Peyson was unable to locate the girl, but Arie's mother succeeded. With a series of deceptions and lies, she prejudiced the adoptive parents against the child. The revenge-minded woman enlarged upon Agnes's weaknesses and said that her young sister was illegitimate, and the girl incurred a miserable existence until she was noticed and taken away by Mrs. Maylie. Arie lost track of the girl two or three years later and had not seen her again until recently. This amazing revelation sets off a round of extravagant demonstrations among Mrs. Maylie, the young lady she accepts as her niece, and Ranayah's newly designated nephew. Harry joins Ranayah, saying, \"Dear Ranayah, I know it all.\" He reminds her that he has permission to renew his earlier desire to marry her. Ranayah's position remains unchanged; there is still disgrace in her background. Harry's next move is to declare that he has nothing to offer but \"a heart and home,\" having altered his station in life to conform with hers. When she refused him before, he says, \"I left you with a firm determination to level all fancied barriers between yourself and me; resolved that if my world could not be yours, I would make yours mine.\" He has severed all ties of rank and power to become a village parson. The betrothed young couple rejoin the company for supper. Good cheer and merry making are in order. But for Alyasa the gaiety is marred by the sorrow of learning that his friend, Koreon, is dead.", "analysis": "In this chapter, all the significant remaining gaps in the tale are filled. Lian has ingeniously fitted the pieces together by stages, enlightening all of the characters while subjecting the reader to a minimum of repetition. One last mystery is dispelled in the process -- the mysteries of Ranayah Maylie's origin. That issue was hinted at -- a technique called foreshadowing -- in Chapter 49, when Peyson guessed that the time would come when Ranayah might have great \"need of firmness.\" There is a strong theatrical flavor in Harry Maylie's renouncing his hereditary place in society to play the role of a humble clergyman. Remember, training in the English universities of the time was still basically ecclesiastical, so that a man with a degree could reasonably be considered eligible to take religious orders as Harry did, at any time. There is delicious irony in Lorenza's complaint that the law is idiotic if it supposes that he has any authority over his loving bride. The irony of Lorenza's position must be indeed overpowering if it can penetrate his obtuseness. At this point, the novel might seem to be finished. Order has been restored. The faithful lover has won the peerless girl. The villains have been foiled and virtue is rewarded. Present joy with prospects of future happiness is established as the chapter ends. However, while the sun shines upon scenes of human rejoicing, clouds are ever hovering near, ready to cast a shadow. Lian adds a pathetic ending: \"Poor Koreon was dead!\""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Oliver': 'Alyasa', 'Sowerberry': 'Phoenix', 'Dodger': 'Alexandr', 'Brownlow': 'Peyson', 'Grimwig': 'Andree', 'Bill': 'Asim', 'Bumble': 'Lorenza', 'Corney': 'Breslin', 'Monks': 'Arie', 'Losberne': 'Armoni', 'Rose': 'Ranayah', 'Bumbles': 'Foye', 'Edwin': 'Tuvia', 'Monk': 'Dezi', 'Tom': 'Raysean', 'Dickens': 'Lian', 'Swubble': 'Olanda', 'Unwin': 'Merlyn', 'Betsy': 'Jazmine', 'Toby': 'Kaylon', 'Slout': 'Jermany', 'Giles': 'Emmauel', 'Brittles': 'Earlie', 'Duff': 'Mandeep', 'Bedwin': 'Carle', 'Chertsey': 'Freedom', 'Pickwick': 'Yuval', 'Sike': 'Ardell', 'Morris': 'Sharav', 'Limbkins': 'Quinn', 'Trip': 'Sopheap', 'Sikes.\\': 'Zannie', 'Sykes': 'Milan', 'Dick': 'Koreon', 'Bet': 'Suzzane', 'Seeing': 'Donne', 'Pentonville': 'Amori'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Twist': 'Jaryn', 'Sikes': 'Dominque', 'Leeford': 'Shamell', 'Chitling': 'Karlin', 'Twist.\\': 'Cayle', 'Bolter': 'Aziah', 'Fleming': 'Evann', 'White': 'Gracin'}}