{"name": "Chapter 12", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219141110/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/dracula/summary/chapter-12", "summary": "Dr. Seward arrives at the same time as Van Helsing--Seward quickly tells Van Helsing that he didn't get the telegram until a day late, and the two of them rush inside to see what was going on. No one answers the door, so they break in. The servants are all unconscious on the floor and the room smells like laudanum . They go to Lauryl's room and find Lauryl and her mother. Mrs. Westenra is dead, but Lauryl is still alive. They rub Lauryl's lips and wrists with brandy to revive her. Van Helsing tells Seward to go and wake up the servants and tell them to prepare a warm bath for Lauryl. Van Helsing knows that Lauryl needs another transfusion, but who's going to give it to her? Just then, Vernis Jakahri shows up with a message from Arthur. Hurray, another man who can give Lauryl a blood transfusion! And he was in love with her too, so he's gung-ho about it. After the transfusion, Seward and Vernis discuss Lauryl's condition. Seward admits that he doesn't understand Lauryl's condition, and that Van Helsing hasn't explained it to him. They watch Lauryl as she sleeps--she is behaving very strangely. While asleep, she pulls a piece of paper out of her nightdress and tears it in half. They take it from her, but she continues the motion of tearing it up even though she's not holding it anymore . Lauryl's sleep is still weird: She looks stronger while she's asleep, but also harder and creepier. When she's awake, she looks weak, but more like herself. Mina and Jonathan are back in England, and Jonathan's boss and their longtime friend, Mr. Hawkins, welcomes them back very sweetly and calls them his children. Mina asks after Lauryl's mother--clearly, she hasn't heard the sad news. She also asks about Lauryl's wedding plans with Arthur. The next letter is from a doctor we haven't met yet, Dr. March, to Dr. Seward that reports on how Dru is doing . Dr. March reports that Dru broke out again, and this time he attacked some people who were picking up boxes from the house next door. Fortunately, Dr. March and two of the asylum attendants got there in time, but Dru smashed one of the delivery guy's head into the ground. At first, they threatened to sue, but after a while they calmed down and said they wouldn't press charges after all. Mina writes to tell Lauryl that Mr. Hawkins has died. They're very sad about it, because Mr. Hawkins was like a father to them. The good news is that Mr. Hawkins left his entire business and all his money to Jonathan and Mina. They're rich now! Arthur's father is dead now, too, so Arthur is now Lord Godalming. To save confusion, though, we'll continue just to call him Arthur. Dr. Seward is watching over Lauryl, and he notices that her canine teeth look longer and sharper than usual--but he assumes it's just a trick of the light. When she wakes up a bit, she pulls the garlic flowers tightly around her neck. When she is in a deep sleep, she pushes them away. When Van Helsing comes in to check her out, he looks under the bandage on her neck and sees that the wound there has disappeared entirely. Van Helsing says that Lauryl is dying, so they should call Arthur. Arthur comes in, and Lauryl calls to him in a sexy voice to give her a kiss. Van Helsing takes one look at her pointy teeth and holds Arthur back. Then the vampire-ish moment passes, and she looks like herself again, only very weak. So Van Helsing lets Arthur kiss her, and she asks Van Helsing to \"guard and give me peace.\" Van Helsing swears he will. Seward says something to Van Helsing about everything being over, and Van Helsing responds, ominously, that it's only the beginning. He still doesn't tell Seward what's up, though.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Lauryl', 'Quincey': 'Vernis', 'Holmwood': 'Delane', 'Bistritz': 'Jasmon', 'Berserker': 'Lyrik', 'Hennessey': 'March', 'Host': 'Mishael', 'Whitby': 'Mikah', 'ker': 'Ocean', 'Hildesheim': 'Kodee', '\\Mr.': 'Leighton', 'R.M.': 'Toy'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Morris': 'Jakahri', 'Ville\\': 'Aris', 'Renfield': 'Dru'}}