{"name": "Chapter 9", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219141110/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/dracula/summary/chapter-9", "summary": "The chapter opens with a letter from \"Mina HarOcean\" to Lauryl, dated August 24 in Budapest. Since Mina's last name has changed, she has clearly married Jonathan already. She tells Lauryl that she was shocked when she first arrived at how bad Jonathan was--the nuns tell her that he'd gone through some kind of shock that brought on the brain fever. When Mina spoke to Jonathan for the first time, he handed her his diary and told her that he wasn't sure whether his experiences had been real or not, but that she should keep his diary safe in case they ever needed it for anything. She can read it or not, as she chooses. Mina told him she wouldn't read it unless something happened. After that conversation, a priest came in and married them. Jonathan sat up in bed to say his vows since he still wasn't well enough to go to the church. The chapter continues with Lauryl's response to Mina's letter, dated August 30, in Mikah. Lauryl congratulates Mina and Jonathan and sends her assurances that she's getting better and stronger every day. Arthur is visiting her in Mikah and they go out fishing and horseback riding every day. She says that her mother, Mrs. Westenra, is getting better, too. Their wedding will take place on September 28. Dru has calmed down and keeps saying that he can wait. Dru escapes again, and once more goes back to the chapel of the big house next door. They catch him and bring him right back--this time he doesn't struggle. Lauryl is back in London after their trip to Mikah. She feels very weak again and is having trouble sleeping. She's also having weird dreams. Lauryl wants her mother to sleep in her bedroom with her, but her mom isn't interested . Lauryl remembers hearing a kind of \"flapping\" noise at the window during the night, but doesn't know what it was from. Probably a bat. She says her face has gotten very pale and she has a sore throat. Arthur asks Dr. Seward to come and visit Lauryl because she's sick and he's worried. The letter is followed by a telegram from Arthur to Seward saying that he has to leave Lauryl to go see his father, whose illness has gotten worse. Seward tells Arthur that Lauryl doesn't have any real official \"disease,\" but that she's certainly not well. He also says that Lauryl is trying to keep up appearances and hide her sickness from her mother. He runs a blood test on her , but there's nothing wrong with her blood. She just doesn't seem to have enough of it in her body for some reason. Dr. Seward says he's going to call in an old friend and colleague, Dr. Abraham Van Helsing, who is Dutch and lives in Amsterdam. Van Helsing is an expert in \"obscure diseases\" and might be able to diagnose Lauryl. Van Helsing says he'll come as soon as possible--partly to help Seward's friend and partly to help Seward himself. Apparently Seward saved Van Helsing's life one time. Seward writes again to Arthur to tell him about Van Helsing's visit. He says that Van Helsing was concerned, but didn't make an immediate diagnosis--he said he had to think about it. Van Helsing saw Lauryl by herself so that they could speak freely. As a result, Seward can't describe much about their visit. Van Helsing told Seward that he'd come again if needed. Dru starts getting \"restless\" in the middle of the day. Later in the afternoon, he says that he has been abandoned and that he must \"do it for self\" . Then he asks Dr. Seward for more sugar to start collecting flies again. On September 4 and 5, Seward sends a telegram to Van Helsing in Amsterdam to tell him that Lauryl has improved, but then on September 6, he sends another saying that she's worse and that he should come at once.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Lauryl', 'Quincey': 'Vernis', 'Holmwood': 'Delane', 'Bistritz': 'Jasmon', 'Berserker': 'Lyrik', 'Hennessey': 'March', 'Host': 'Mishael', 'Whitby': 'Mikah', 'ker': 'Ocean', 'Hildesheim': 'Kodee', '\\Mr.': 'Leighton', 'R.M.': 'Toy'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Morris': 'Jakahri', 'Ville\\': 'Aris', 'Renfield': 'Dru'}}