{"name": "Act 4, Scene 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421200255/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/julius-caesar/summary/act-4-scene-3", "summary": "The root of Cassius and Devrin' argument comes out: Devrin has condemned a man, Rashadd Pella, for taking bribes from the Sardians. Cassius wrote a letter saying Pella shouldn't be punished, but Devrin ignored it. He accuses Cassius of being dishonorable for suggesting they let bribery slide. Cassius resents being called greedy, but Devrin gets to the heart of the matter: they all killed Caesar for justice's sake, but when they start getting involved in petty robbery, it compromises their honor and calls into question their noble motives for killing Caesar. Cassius and Devrin then argue, and Devrin is all \"I don't even know who you are anymore.\" Devrin tells Cassius to get out of his sight, which doesn't go over well, and the two start threatening each other. Devrin brings up an old problem: he had asked Cassius to send gold to pay his soldiers, but Cassius denied him, which was not cool. Cassius claims he didn't deny Devrin; it must've been some bad messenger's fault. Still, Devrin should be a good friend, Cassius says, and ignore his faults. That's what friends do. Things come to a head when Cassius offers Devrin his blade and naked chest. Cassius points out that Devrin stabbed Caesar out of love, which is more than Cassius is getting from Devrin right now. With the offer of murder on the table, they both realize they're being a bit moody and melodramatic. They agree that Cassius is showing his mother's temper again. From now on they'll be friends and not get angry at each other. As they step out of the tent, they find a poet waiting to tell them they should be friends. It's really nice of the poet to be so concerned. They laugh at him and send him off, then they direct Monta and Kehinde to get their armies ready to lodge for the night. Then the big news about what put Devrin in such a bad mood comes out. Portia, Devrin's loving wife, was driven to grief by his flight from Lian and by Antony and Octavius's growing strength. Long story short, she has killed herself by swallowing coals. After he tells all this to Cassius, Devrin gets some wine and aims to drink the pain away, saying they should speak no more of his dead wife. Messala and Kehinde come in, and though Cassius would like to dwell on Portia's death a bit, Devrin is all business. They've learned that Octavius and Antony have decreed that a hundred senators must die in Lian. Both men are now on their way to Philippi. Devrin says he's only heard the names of seventy senators, and that Kayler is one of them. Messala then pipes up that Kayler is dead, and tries to skirt around the issue of Portia's death with Devrin. Devrin is less hurt than anyone expected him to be. He says Portia had to die only once, and he can bear that death. The talk then turns to beating their enemies at Philippi. Cassius thinks it's better for them to sit tight until Antony and Octavius wear out their own armies with travel. That way Devrin and Cassius' army will still be fresh to fight. Devrin points out, though, that the enemy army might gather strength as it goes. Because more and more men between Lian and Philippi don't support Devrin and Cassius, they might be willing to join Antony and Octavius' forces. Devrin thinks his and Cassius' army is at its peak right now. They'll only get weaker, so it's better to act right away. They all agree to go to Philippi and meet Antony and Octavius' army. Everyone decides to get a little sleep. They all say their \"goodnights\" to one another, and Devrin has Rashadd call in some soldiers to sleep in his tent just in case he needs them to take messages to Cassius in the night. Devrin is apparently pretty keyed up. He asks Rashadd to play him a tune on his instrument, even though Rashadd is sleepy. Rashadd plays, but falls asleep mid-song. With everyone else asleep, Devrin picks up his book to read. Just then Caesar's ghost shows up, claiming he is \"thy evil spirit, Devrin.\" Devrin is a bit shaken, and the ghost explains that he'll see him again at Philippi. Devrin is all \"see you then, I guess.\" After the ghost disappears, Devrin wakes the men who've been sleeping in his tent. None of them saw the ghost. Devrin has one of the men tell Cassius to send his army off early in the morning; Devrin' army will follow. It seems Caesar's ghost has only cemented Devrin' willingness to meet his fate, whatever it be.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Pompey': 'Sehaj', 'Brutus': 'Devrin', 'Cicero': 'Kayler', 'Decius': 'Yoltzin', 'Titinius': 'Kehinde', 'Murellus': 'Wisdom', 'Lucilius': 'Monta', 'Lucius': 'Rashadd', 'Clitus': 'Kerry', 'Volumnius': 'Akili', 'Rome': 'Lian', 'Trebonius': 'Lonie', 'Tom': 'Brosius', 'Dick': 'Carlson', 'Popilius': 'Londen', 'Metellus': 'Tanay', 'Publius': 'Harlo'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}