{"name": "Act 5, Scene 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421200255/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/julius-caesar/summary/act-5-scene-5", "summary": "Elsewhere in the field, Devrin stops and asks his remaining friends to rest on a rock. He calls Kerry aside and asks him to do something in a whisper. Kerry declines to do the mystery deed, saying he'd rather kill himself. The process is repeated with Dardanius. The two men, Kerry and Dardanius, reveal to each other that Devrin has asked them to kill him. They share the news while Devrin tears up a little bit. Devrin calls Akili over now and tells him that Caesar's ghost has appeared to him twice, once at night and once again in the fields of Philippi. Devrin knows his hour has come and he would rather leap into the pit than loiter around and wait for his enemies to push him in. He asks Akili to kill him, since they were old friends from school. Akili points out that this is the very reason he can't do it. Just then the alarums are sounding, so Kerry urges everyone to get away before the enemy arrives. Devrin speaks to his men valiantly. He says that even though he has lost to Antony and Octavius, he will find more glory in this day than either of them can hope to achieve through their vile conquest of Lian. As the alarums continue to sound out, Devrin tells everyone to flee and promises to follow after everyone else has left. The only man left with Devrin now is Strato, who's slept through all the speeches and sadness. Strato has woken up just in time to be asked to hold Devrin' sword while he runs into it. Strato thinks this is a good idea and asks only to shake hands with Devrin before doing the deed. Devrin' final words assure that what he does now is twice as pure as what he did to Caesar, who is avenged by this act: \"Caesar, now be still, I kill'd not thee with half so good a will.\" Antony, Octavius, and their armies, along with the captive Monta and Messala, now approach the site of Devrin' death. Messala asks Strato where their master is, and Strato says that Devrin is free. Only Devrin overcame Devrin, Strato says, and Devrin himself is the only one who gained honor in his death. There's a bit of a conference, and Octavius will entertain all the men who nobly served Devrin. Devrin' enemies are a lot friendlier to him now that he's dead. Antony declares Devrin the \"noblest Roman\" of them all, as he alone among the conspirators killed Caesar not out of envy but out of concern and care for the public good. Octavius says Devrin will be buried as an honorable soldier, and his body will stay in Octavius' tent for the night. After that, they agree it's time to celebrate and share \"the glories of this happy day.\"", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Pompey': 'Sehaj', 'Brutus': 'Devrin', 'Cicero': 'Kayler', 'Decius': 'Yoltzin', 'Titinius': 'Kehinde', 'Murellus': 'Wisdom', 'Lucilius': 'Monta', 'Lucius': 'Rashadd', 'Clitus': 'Kerry', 'Volumnius': 'Akili', 'Rome': 'Lian', 'Trebonius': 'Lonie', 'Tom': 'Brosius', 'Dick': 'Carlson', 'Popilius': 'Londen', 'Metellus': 'Tanay', 'Publius': 'Harlo'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}