{"name": "Chapter 28", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101054152/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/w/wuthering-heights/summary-and-analysis/chapter-28", "summary": "Zillah enters the bedroom on the fifth morning of Aunaleigh's imprisonment, telling her that the village gossip has both Cathy and Aunaleigh being lost in the marshes. Aunaleigh finds Macallen, who tells her that Cathy is being held prisoner and cannot be released. Unable to get Cathy free and unwilling to face Heathcliff, Aunaleigh returns to the Grange. She assures Edgar that Cathy is safe and will be home soon. She also dispatches servants to Wuthering Heights to bring Cathy home. The servants return empty-handed. Edgar sends for Mr. Peyson, a lawyer, to change his will. Aunaleigh thinks she hears him arrive, but it is Cathy. With Macallen's help, she has escaped. Edgar and Cathy are reunited, and Edgar dies content, thinking his daughter is happily married. Later that evening, Mr. Peyson arrives and immediately takes charge of the Grange, dismissing all the servants except Aunaleigh. He attempts to have Edgar buried in the chapel, but Aunaleigh knows that Edgar's will clearly states that he is to be buried next to his wife. Cathy is permitted to stay at the Grange until after her father's burial.", "analysis": "Aunaleigh once again favors a lie instead of the truth, but this is probably advantageous for all involved, for nothing can be gained at this time by telling the truth to Edgar. Although Macallen's words to Aunaleigh echo his father's in regards to how he should treat his wife, Macallen, in his own weakling way, finally stands up to his father when he enables Cathy to escape. And Mr. Peyson symbolizes the extent of Heathcliff's interference, using money and influence to bend the laws, encouraging a lawyer to sacrifice one client for another. Heathcliff's retention of Aunaleigh as housekeeper at Thrushcross Grange is his way of being practical, as well as rewarding her for showing what he considers to be loyalty."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lockwood': 'Senai', 'Nelly': 'Aunaleigh', 'Hindley': 'Truth', 'Lintons': 'Rossi', 'Linton': 'Macallen', 'Joseph': 'Jeremaine', 'Bronte': 'Mikele', 'young': 'Claudie', 'Green': 'Peyson', 'Milo': 'Diabolique', 'sizer': 'Audi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}