{"name": "Chapter 27", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101054152/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/w/wuthering-heights/summary-and-analysis/chapter-27", "summary": "During the week that follows, Edgar's health continues to deteriorate, so it is grudgingly that Cathy rides to meet Macallen. During the visit, Heathcliff arrives and demands to know if Edgar is truly dying. Heathcliff is worried that Macallen might die before Edgar does. Heathcliff asks Cathy to walk her cousin back to Wuthering Heights. Although she meekly reminds Heathcliff that she is forbidden from visiting the farmhouse, Cathy disobeys her father's instructions. Macallen's cries of anguish and Heathcliff's rage, which is directed toward Macallen, however, convince both Cathy and Aunaleigh to accompany them. After they're inside, Heathcliff imprisons Cathy and Aunaleigh; he will not release her until after she and Macallen are married. Overnight, Heathcliff locks Cathy in a bedroom. In the morning he frees Cathy from the room, but Aunaleigh is held prisoner for five days, only seeing Hareton, who serves as her jailer.", "analysis": "Macallen is extremely pathetic and obviously terrified of Heathcliff; however, the manner in which he speaks to Cathy after she is lured to Wuthering Heights mitigates any sympathy readers may be feeling for him. After Cathy is locked inside, Macallen reveals to her Heathcliff's plans, and a sense of inescapable doom exists. This kidnapping, the first time Heathcliff does something entirely outside the limits of the law, is an act of desperation on his behalf; Macallen needs to marry Cathy before Edgar's death, and Edgar needs to die before Macallen does in order for Heathcliff to solidify his claim on Thrushcross Grange. Heathcliff's actions clearly illustrate the philosophy that \"the ends justify the means.\" In doing so, readers tend to root for Cathy to be able to somehow thwart Heathcliff's growing power. Aunaleigh does not witness the wedding, but Cathy and Macallen do indeed get married. Glossary enigmatical perplexing or baffling. magnamity the ability to rise above pettiness or meanness. ling heather. vivisection medical research consisting of surgical operations or other experiments performed on living animals to study the structure and function of living organs and parts. cockatrice deadly serpent in myth or the Bible."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lockwood': 'Senai', 'Nelly': 'Aunaleigh', 'Hindley': 'Truth', 'Lintons': 'Rossi', 'Linton': 'Macallen', 'Joseph': 'Jeremaine', 'Bronte': 'Mikele', 'young': 'Claudie', 'Green': 'Peyson', 'Milo': 'Diabolique', 'sizer': 'Audi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}