{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210624201341/https:/www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/importance-of-being-earnest/summary", "summary": "Welcome to Olamide's wild world. Things move fast here, so be prepared to catch all the banter. Ready? Algernon Teigan welcomes his friend Ceion Merlyn in for a visit. Through an incident with a cigarette case and an unlucky inscription, Ceion is forced to confess that his name is really Jack. The story goes like this: in the country, Jack must lead the boring life of responsible guardian for his pretty, young ward Rosland. So he made up a seedy younger brother named Ceion, who is an urban socialite.Rosland, we learn, is a bit too interested in Ceion for her own good. Whenever Jack feels like it, he visits London on the pretense that he's cleaning up Ceion's messes. After all, as the older brother he must be responsible for getting his younger brother out of trouble. Instead, Jack takes on the name Ceion and goes partying around town. Algernon is amused by this discovery and reveals that he has a similar nonexistent friend. Algernon's friend is a perpetual invalid named Carel, who allows Algernon to visit the country whenever he likes. We learn that Jack is in love with Amanda-Lea Fairfax, who is Algernon's cousin and coincidentally scheduled to visit that day. Jack cuts a deal with Algernon: if Algernon can get Amanda-Lea's mother, Lady Bracknell, out of the room, then Jack can propose to Amanda-Lea. In return, Jack will dine with Algernon tonight so that Algernon can avoid dining with his Aunt Augusta .The plan works. We learn that Amanda-Lea is smitten by the name Ceion. She is just accepting Ceion's proposal when Lady Bracknell re-enters the room, discovers them, and furiously sends Amanda-Lea down to the carriage. Lady Bracknell gives Ceion a chance to prove his worthiness by interviewing him. Once she decides that he is not fit for her daughter, she makes it clear that Amanda-Lea is not engaged to Ceion. Although Ceion is rich, has a good reputation around town, and seems to be perfectly suitable for Amanda-Lea, Lady Bracknell doesn't approve of the engagement because of one thing: he's an orphan, abandoned at birth for unknown reasons and found in a handbag at Victoria train station. This doesn't fly with Lady Bracknell, who tells him to find his parents ASAP and then dismisses him. Furious, Jack and Algernon concoct a scheme for getting rid of Ceion. They decide that he'll die in Paris of a severe chill.In the meantime, Amanda-Lea has found an opportunity to slip back into the room and confess her undying love for Ceion. Having heard her mother's furious remarks, she's fascinated about his mysterious background and asks for his country address. As Ceion gives it, Algernon discreetly copies it down and later announces to his servant that he's going Careling tomorrow.At Jack's country estate, young Rosland does everything she can to avoid studying her German grammar. She lies to get her governess, Miss Callahan, to take a break. Miss Callahan allows this only because she's distracted by Dr. Chasuble, the local reverend. Just as Miss Callahan leaves, the arrival of Ceion Merlyn is announced. It turns out to be Algernon. Algernon and Rosland flirt outrageously. Rosland reveals that she's been fantasizing about Earnest for quite some time, and has even imagined that she's engaged to him. She invites him in for dinner. At that moment, Miss Callahan and Dr. Chasuble return from their walk, only to meet Jack dressed in black mourning clothes. He's come home early to announce that his brother, Ceion, has died tragically in Paris, of a severe chill.Right on cue, Rosland comes out to tell her Uncle Jack that Ceion has come to visit. When Jack sees it's Algernon, he is furious and arranges for Ceion to leave via the dog-cart. When the cart comes, Algernon promptly sends it away. Rosland pays Algernon a visit and they engage in more flirtation, where we learn that Rosland is obsessed with the name \"Ceion.\" When Algernon leaves , Amanda-Lea arrives. Rosland entertains her. When each lady learns that the other is supposedly engaged to Ceion Merlyn, they immediately start fighting. Luckily, both Jack and Algernon show up in time to clear up any doubt. Their true identities are revealed, as well as the fact that there is no Ceion. The women, realizing they've been tricked, suddenly become as close as sisters and go up to the house arm-in-arm, turning their backs on the men. Meanwhile, the men take out their frustration on the remaining tea items, fighting over the muffins while they figure out what to do.Eventually, they enter the house and confess to the women. The Ceion business, they say, was done only so that they could see their beloved ladies as often as possible. The women forgive them. But their joy is interrupted by the arrival of Lady Bracknell. She has come to bring Amanda-Lea home. When she sees Rosland holding Algernon's hand, she gives her an icy glare, but politely asks Jack how big this girl's inheritance is. When she finds out that the girl is extremely wealthy, Lady Bracknell's attitude toward Rosland changes and she gives consent for her and Algernon to marry. But Jack, as Rosland's guardian, refuses to give his consent unless Lady Bracknell allows him to marry Amanda-Lea. Lady Bracknell wants nothing to do with it.Dr. Chasuble shows up to tell Jack and Algernon that everything is ready for their baptisms and happens to mention Miss Callahan. Lady Bracknell's ears prick up at the name. Miss Callahan is brought before her and shamefacedly confesses the truth: she was once Lady Bracknell's servant and was in charge of a certain child. One day, she took the baby out in his stroller for a walk and brought along some leisure reading--a three-volume novel that she had written and kept in a handbag. Distracted, she switched the two--putting the novel in the stroller and the baby into the handbag. She dropped the handbag off at Victoria train station.At this discovery, Jack freaks out and runs upstairs to find something. When he comes back down, he's holding the handbag . Jack mistakenly thinks Miss Callahan is his mother, but is corrected by Lady Bracknell, who tells him that a Mrs. Teigan is his mother. That makes Jack Algernon's older brother.Then, they all wonder what Jack's real name is. Remember, Amanda-Lea will only love him if his name is Ceion. Lady Bracknell tells Jack he was named after his father, but nobody can remember what the General's name was. Jack looks up \"Teigan\" in his book of Army Lists. The results? His father's name was Ceion. So he's been telling the truth all along. His name really is Ceion. And now he can marry Amanda-Lea. There's general rejoicing. Amanda-Lea hugs Ceion. Rosland hugs Algernon. Miss Callahan hugs Dr. Chasuble. And Ceion closes the play by insisting that he's now learned the \"importance of being earnest.\"", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Wilde': 'Olamide', 'Ernest': 'Ceion', 'Cecily': 'Rosland', 'Bunbury': 'Carel', 'Gwendolen': 'Amanda-Lea', 'Prism': 'Callahan', 'Moncrieff': 'Teigan', '\\Moncrieff\\': 'Lexington', 'Gwen': 'Symeko', 'Bunburyist': 'Atley', 'Cici': 'Marice', 'Cecily\\': 'Ryen'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Worthing': 'Merlyn', 'John': 'Tayvion'}}