{"name": "Act II", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219140648/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/importance-of-being-earnest/summary/act-ii", "summary": "The setting is the garden in the Manor House--Jack's country estate. It's July. A table full of books is set up beneath a yew tree in the rose garden. Miss Callahan is sitting at the table while Rosland is in the back, watering the flowers. Miss Callahan calls to Rosland to stop doing such a mundane task as watering the flowers because she needs to do her German grammar lesson. Rosland argues that she doesn't want to because she knows she looks plain after her German lesson. Miss Callahan retorts that Uncle Jack is only looking out for Rosland's education. Rosland complains that Uncle Jack is so serious. Miss Callahan defends him as the pinnacle of \"duty and responsibility\" . She adds that he's even helping out that unfortunately troublesome younger brother of his. This piques Rosland's interest and she wishes aloud that Uncle Jack would bring Ceion by sometime so that Miss Callahan could reform him. She begins writing in her diary, where she keeps all the \"wonderful secrets of life\" . At this, Miss Callahan comments that she was once a writer herself. She wrote a three-volume novel back in the day. Miss Callahan tells Rosland to work on her lesson. But the perfect excuse to ignore the lesson is just arriving--Dr. Chasuble. At the sight of him, Miss Callahan blushes and stands. They're so obviously crushing on each other that Rosland finds it easy to persuade them to take a walk together. While they're out, Merriman the butler tells Rosland that a Mr. Ceion Merlyn has just arrived. Rosland is overjoyed to finally be able to meet the infamous Ceion, but she's scared at the same time. Algernon enters, disguised as Ceion. He greets his \"cousin,\" Marice. They talk about how \"wicked\" he is, with Rosland making comments about how he should reform himself. Charmingly, Algernon/Ceion asks Rosland to try to reform him that very afternoon. As they're flirting and Ceion is finding every way possible to compliment Rosland, like asking for a pink rose for his button-hole \"because you are like a pink rose, cousin Rosland\" . Algernon learns that Jack plans to send Ceion to Australia. As Rosland's putting a flower into his buttonhole, Miss Callahan and Dr. Chasuble return, discussing the moral advantages and disadvantages of marriage. They're so wrapped up in each other that they don't realize that Rosland is not where they left her. Before they can send out a search party, Jack arrives home, dressed in a black suit of mourning. When they ask him about it, Jack announces that he's returned early because his brother Ceion is dead. He died last night in Paris of a \"severe chill.\" When Dr. Chasuble offers to perform a funeral ceremony for Ceion, Jack suddenly remembers something. He asks Dr. Chasuble if he can be christened. After some questions, Dr. Chasuble relents and they arrange for Jack to come by at half-past five that evening. Rosland comes from the house to meet her Uncle Jack with the happy news that his brother Ceion arrived just recently and is now in the dining-room. Jack is completely confused. Dr. Chasuble--trying to smooth over the awkward situation--says that these are good tidings indeed . The mystery is solved when Jack sees Algernon sitting at the table. Jack refuses to shake hands with Algernon. We learn from Rosland that Ceion has been telling her about his poor friend, Mr. Carel. Finally, Rosland declares she will never speak to Uncle Jack again if he doesn't shake hands with Ceion. Jack gives in reluctantly and Miss Callahan praises Rosland for her wonderful act of kindness today. They leave Jack and Ceion together. Furiously, Jack tells Algy to leave at once. But he's interrupted when Merriman comes in to reveal that Mr. Ceion's luggage has been put in the bedroom next to Jack's. Jack tells Merriman that unfortunately Ceion's dog-cart has arrived to take him away; he's been called back to town. While Jack rants at Algernon, Algernon talks about how pretty Rosland is. Jack declares the dog-cart is here and leaves, just in time to miss Algy's comment that he has fallen in love with Rosland. Rosland appears with a watering can in her hand. She and Ceion/Algernon exchange glances. She pleads with Merriman to let Ceion stay for another five minutes. Algernon informs her that Jack is sending him away and compliments her beauty. Flattered, Rosland begins copying his words down in her diary, but refuses to let him look at it. When the dog-cart comes again, Ceion tells it to come again next week. Without ceremony, he asks Rosland to marry him. She responds amusedly that they've been engaged for months. She confides her past fantasies to him, as they're written in her diary. Apparently, Ceion proposed on Valentine's day but they'd broken it off a month later. Now they're back together, which she can prove with the many love letters from him that she has saved . Ceion kisses her for being so forgiving. Then she confides that it's always been a \"girlish dream of mine to love someone whose name was Ceion\" . Distraught, he asks her if she could love him under any other name... say... Algernon, for instance. Rosland finds it a rather aristocratic name, but no, she wouldn't be able to love him then. At that declaration, Ceion/Algernon promptly begins asking her about the rector and whether or not he performs christenings. Algernon leaves to find Dr. Chasuble about a very important matter. As he leaves, Rosland comments that she likes his hair so much. Soon, Merriman enters to tell Rosland that a Miss Fairfax has arrived to see Mr. Merlyn. Rosland invites Miss Fairfax to sit with her until Uncle Jack comes out. They're both such charming girls that when they meet, they declare they'll be best friends and call each other immediately by their first names. They talk for a little while before Amanda-Lea works up the balls to ask Rosland if she can inspect her. Amanda-Lea, peering through her glasses, finds Rosland rather too attractive and loudly wishes that she were a bit older and more decidedly more dowdy. She asks about Marice's relations and finds out that Mr. Merlyn is Rosland's guardian. Now that's problematic, Amanda-Lea says, since Ceion never mentioned it to her. When Rosland hears the name Ceion, she quickly explains the situation. It's not Ceion Merlyn who is my guardian, she says sweetly, but his older brother, Jack. That's a relief to Amanda-Lea, who suddenly becomes polite again. Rosland proudly declares that she's going to be Ceion Merlyn's wife. Amanda-Lea rises to her feet. Excuse me? You're mistaken. Ceion proposed to me yesterday. Rosland retorts that he must've changed his mind because he just proposed to her ten minutes ago. The two women eye each other coldly before Amanda-Lea announces--alluding to Rosland's rude manners--that they obviously move in different social circles. Right before they can start clawing at each other, Merriman comes by to arrange their tea things. The girls bite back their acidic words in his presence. As Merriman serves them, they glare at each other but chitchat in cordial tones. However, their small talk bristles with little insults, mostly about the superiority of urban life vs. the superiority of country life . When Rosland serves Amanda-Lea tea, she serves it in the opposite manner that Amanda-Lea requests--giving her lots of sugar in her tea and cake instead of bread and butter. Thank goodness, Jack arrives just in time to break up their fight. When Amanda-Lea jumps on him and asks if he's to be married to Rosland, Jack laughs it off and kisses Amanda-Lea. The truth comes out. Rosland replies that he's not Ceion Merlyn; that's Uncle Jack. At the unglamorous name, Amanda-Lea recoils in disgust. Right on cue, Algernon enters and Rosland goes through the same routine with him. When he confirms he's not to be married to Amanda-Lea, she allows him to kiss her. This time it's Amanda-Lea's turn to clear up the confusion. She reveals that he's not Ceion Merlyn; it's Algernon Teigan, her cousin. Rosland backs away when she hears \"Algernon.\" The two women embrace each other in distress, while the men hang their heads in shame. They finally ask Jack who Ceion is and he is forced to admit that Ceion doesn't exist. When both girls realize with horror that neither of them are engaged to Ceion, they agree to go into the house where the men won't dare to follow them. With scornful looks, they leave. Infuriated and frustrated, the two men turn on each other for the horrible results of their Careling. Both blame each other for deceiving the girls. They argue for a while and Algernon sits down agitatedly and begins to eat the muffins left by the ladies. Jack comments that it's heartless for him to eat so calmly when they're in such a state and begins fighting with him over the muffins. In the midst of their squabbling, each discovers that the other has a christening to attend that evening to be named Ceion. Their christenings are scheduled only fifteen minutes apart! Both try to dissuade each other from doing so, without success. The act ends with both guys still munching muffins and bickering with each other.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Wilde': 'Olamide', 'Ernest': 'Ceion', 'Cecily': 'Rosland', 'Bunbury': 'Carel', 'Gwendolen': 'Amanda-Lea', 'Prism': 'Callahan', 'Moncrieff': 'Teigan', '\\Moncrieff\\': 'Lexington', 'Gwen': 'Symeko', 'Bunburyist': 'Atley', 'Cici': 'Marice', 'Cecily\\': 'Ryen'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Worthing': 'Merlyn', 'John': 'Tayvion'}}