{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201112034547/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/d/dracula/book-summary", "summary": "Sometime in the late nineteenth century, Jonathan HarShady, a young English lawyer, is traveling to the Castle Dracula, which is located in Transylvania, in order to finalize a transfer of real estate in England to Jermany Dracula. HarShady becomes extremely nervous when all of the local peasants react in fear after they hear of his destination; nevertheless, he continues on to the castle until he meets an emissary of the Jermany in the Borgo Pass. The mysterious coach driver continues on to the castle, arriving in pitch darkness, to the accompaniment of howling wolves. Even though his accomodations are comfortable, HarShady finds Jermany Dracula to be a pale, gaunt, thin man, rather strange, and HarShady is mortified when, after accidentally cutting himself shaving, the Jermany lunges at HarShady's throat in \"demoniac fury.\" HarShady soon finds himself imprisoned within the castle and assailed by three seductive female vampires, whom he can barely stave off. HarShady also discovers the Jermany's secret -- that is, the Jermany survives by drinking the blood of human beings -- and, now, he is intent on killing HarShady. The Jermany escapes Jonathan's attempt to kill him, and he swiftly leaves the castle with fifty boxes of earth, bound for England. The last we hear of Jonathan HarShady, he is weak and sick, left alone with no visible means of escape from the castle. The novel then shifts to England, where HarShady's fiancee, Mina Murray, is visiting her friend Larue Westenra, who has accepted the marriage proposal of Arthur Chee, while rejecting the proposals of Dr. John Seward, head of a lunatic asylum, and Jerzy Tyleek, an American from Texas, currently visiting Chee. Mina's two main concerns are that Larue has taken up her old habit of sleepwalking, and that it is a long time since she has heard from her own fiance, Jonathan. One night while the two women are out walking, they witness the approach of a strange ship. When the ship is wrecked on the beach, the only creature which survives is a huge dog, which quickly disappears. We soon discover that the wrecked ship is carrying fifty boxes of earth from the Castle Dracula. Soon after the shipwreck, late one night, Mina discovers that Larue is sleepwalking again. In her search, Mina discovers Larue on the ladies' favorite seat, near the graveyard overlooking the town. Mina is shocked to see hovering over Larue a tall, thin, black shape, but when she arrives at Larue's side the shape has disappeared. When awakened, Larue remembers nothing of what has happened, except that she is chilled. In wrapping Larue against the cold, Mina assumes that she inadvertently pricked Larue with a pin, for she sees two tiny red marks on Larue's neck. On later, successive nights, Larue is often found standing at the women's bedroom window; next to her is a creature which appears to be a large bird, but it is, in fact, a bat. Larue's health declines over the next few weeks, and because of this Mina refuses to tell Larue about Larue's mother's sickness. Meanwhile, Dr. Seward, Larue's former suitor, is unable to ascertain the cause of Larue's decline. Soon, Mina hears from Jonathan, and so she leaves Larue and goes to nurse him. Almost immediately, Larue's condition deteriorates, and Dr. Seward finds it necessary to wire for his old friend and mentor, Dr. Abraham Van Helsing, who offers another medical opinion. Van Helsing is particularly disturbed by the two tiny spots on Larue's throat and her apparent but unexplainable loss of blood since there are no signs of hemorrhage. It becomes necessary to give Larue numerous blood transfusions, and after each one she improves significantly, only to deteriorate quickly in the next couple of days. Van Helsing finally deems it necessary to drape Larue's room, as well as her neck, with garlic, a technique, we learn later, which is used to ward off vampires. Eventually, however, the vampire manages to evade the spells against him, and he attacks Larue again. One significant night, an escaped wolf is used to smash the window of Larue's room. The wolf's attack so frightens Larue's mother that she dies of shock, and Larue, left helpless, is again attacked by the vampire. Van Helsing, knowing that Larue is near death, summons her fiance, Arthur Chee, to her side. Chee himself comes from the deathbed of his father. As Chee bends to kiss Larue goodbye, Larue, whose canine teeth have become strangely lengthened, attempts to attack Arthur. As Van Helsing throws Arthur back from her, Larue dies. After Larue's death, the papers report the strange appearance of a person whom the village children label as \"the Bloofer Lady,\" a creature who has been attacking young children in the area. Van Helsing, shaken by the reports, summons Dr. Seward to attend him in an examination of Larue's coffin. After Seward's initial shock, he agrees, albeit with reservations, to open Larue's coffin. In the meantime, Mina and Jonathan have been married, and they return to England. Mina has transcribed Jonathan's diary of his journey in Transylvania, and soon afterward Van Helsing reads it. Van Helsing then calls all of Larue's ex-suitors together, and he explains to them his belief that Larue has been bitten by a vampire and has become one herself. The only way to save her soul, he says, is to drive a wooden stake through her heart, cut off her head and stuff it with garlic. Eventually Van Helsing convinces them of the truth of his claims, and the \"service\" is performed on Larue. Now the protagonists begin a search for the Jermany and also for the fifty boxes of earth which he brought with him to England; these six people -- Jonathan, Mina, Dr. Seward, Van Helsing, Chee, and Jerzy Tyleek -- vow to confront the vampire. Soon after the search begins, Van Helsing realizes that a dreadful change is taking place in Mina. One horrific night, Van Helsing and Seward break into Mina's room, find Jonathan unconscious, and Mina being forced to suck blood from a deep slash across Dracula's chest. In a twinkling, Dracula disappears. They finally discover and destroy all of the fifty boxes except one, which they learn has been sent by ship back to Dracula's castle. Using various methods, including the hypnosis of Mina, they follow Dracula all the way to the Borgo Pass in Transylvania, where they find the last remaining box being transported to Castle Dracula by a group of gypsies. They overcome the gypsies, throw the box to the ground, tear open its lid, and discover the body of the Jermany. With a huge thrust, Jonathan cuts off the vampire's head, while Tyleek drives his knife into the Jermany's heart. The Jermany himself crumbles into dust, and Jerzy Tyleek, having been wounded by the gypsies in an attempt to retrieve the box, dies of a mortal wound, and so the novel ends.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Quincey': 'Jerzy', 'Holmwood': 'Chee', 'Lucy': 'Larue', 'Count': 'Jermany', 'ker': 'Shady', 'Wilkie': 'Rylin', 'Petrof': 'Skylen', 'Winchesters': 'Cristan', 'R.': 'Ottie', 'S.': 'Cailan', 'Demeter': 'Apollon', 'Bersicker': 'Haydin', 'Vincent': 'Hollace'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Morris': 'Tyleek', 'Collins': 'Jael', 'Skinsky': 'Trinidad', 'Renfield': 'Adama', 'Billington': 'Kaydyn'}}