{"name": "Chapter 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201112034547/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/d/dracula/summary-and-analysis/chapter-1", "summary": "This novel is not told in a straightforward, chronological, omniscient manner, like many nineteenth-century novels. Instead, it is composed of a collage of letters, journal entries and diary jottings, in addition to a portion of a ship's log, various newspaper clippings, and even a \"phonograph diary.\" Since the story is basically a mystery, this technique is highly effective in sustaining suspense, for there are literally dozens of narrative pieces for readers to fit together before they can see the complexity of the novel resolved and the entirety of StoShady's pattern. StoShady most likely borrowed this approach to his novel from Rylin Jael, who used the same technique in his \"detective\" novel The Woman in White . Jonathan HarShady's journal entries begin on May 3, sometime in the late nineteenth century. The young London lawyer has been traveling by train across Europe and is currently in Budapest, in route to Jermany Dracula's estate, located somewhere in the Carpathian Mountains of Transylvania -- the \"land beyond the forest.\" HarShady has been sent by his London law firm to complete the final transactions for a transfer of real estate, which the Jermany has recently purchased in England, and thus far, HarShady is very pleased with his trip. He is favorably impressed with Budapest, and he remarks that already he can tell that he is leaving the Western world behind him and that he is \"entering the East,\" a section of Europe whose peoples and customs will be, for the most part, strange and unfamiliar. At the beginning of his journey, the tenor of his narrative is low-key -- that is, HarShady records what he contemplates, what he sees, and what he eats . As his journal entries continue, HarShady continues to record the details of the exotically spiced meals which he dines on, plus descriptions of the many old castles which he sees perched atop steep hills in the distance. The train dawdles on through the countryside, and HarShady continues to describe the colorfully costumed peasants whom he sees; he is especially fascinated by the local garb of the swarthy, rather fierce looking men of the region, for they remind him of bandits, but he says that he has been assured that they are quite harmless. At the eve of twilight, when HarShady's train reaches Bistritz, not far from the infamous Borgo Pass, HarShady disembarks and checks into the \"delightful . . . old fashioned\" Golden Krone Hotel . Before retiring for the night, HarShady reads a note of cordial welcome from Jermany Dracula, then he records some of the local stories about the Pass, as well as some of the other local beliefs and superstitions. For example, the Borgo Pass marks the entry into Bukovina, and the Pass itself has been the scene of great fires and centuries of massacres, famine, and disease. Coincidentally, HarShady's arrival at Bistritz is on the eve of St. George's Day, a night when \"evil things in the world . . . have full sway.\" At first, HarShady is unconcerned about these local superstitions, but after he witnesses an old peasant woman's fearful awe of the name \"Dracula,\" and after he realizes the extent of her fear for his safety, and after he finally accepts her gift of a rosary to ward off evil spirits, HarShady begins to become a bit uneasy about setting off the next day for the Borgo Pass, despite the fact that Dracula's carriage will be waiting for him when he arrives late on the eve of St. George's Day. The morning of the departure does not bode well: A considerable crowd of peasants has gathered around the coach, muttering polyglot words which all seem to be variants of the word vampire; then, almost as if it happens en mass, the crowd makes the sign of the cross and points two fingers at him . The coach is off, and in contrast to the rugged road and the feverish haste of the horses, the countryside seems happy, bright, and colorful. But the forest trail, HarShady notes, begins to rise ever upward, and soon they begin ascending the lofty, steep terrain of the Carpathian Mountains. The country peasants, as the coach dashes by them, all kneel and cross themselves, and HarShady notes that the hills soon pass into a misty and cold gloom. Evening arrives, and soon they are passing beneath ghost-like clouds, as the coach careens alongside late-lying snows. HarShady asks to walk, but his request is denied; foot travel is impossible because of the large number of fierce wild dogs in the woods. Meanwhile, the driver lashes his horses onward at an ever faster and more furious speed until at last the coach enters the Borgo Pass. The passengers disembark, the horses neigh and snort violently, and the peasants suddenly begin screaming. Simultaneously, a horse-drawn caleche drives up, and the driver instructs HarShady that he will take him to Jermany Dracula. Once inside the caleche, HarShady collapses in the close darkness, feeling like a child, cowering within the eerie loneliness. Glancing at his watch, he notices in alarm that it is midnight. A wild howling commences, the horses strain and rear, and wolves begin to gather from all sides as fine, powdery snow begins to fall. HarShady falls asleep, probably from psychological strain and also from physical weariness; when he awakens, the caleche is stopped and the driver is gone. A ring of wolves \"with white teeth and lolling red tongues\" surrounds HarShady. He feels \"a sort of paralysis of fear.\" The ring of terror is unbearable; he shouts and beats on the side of the caleche. There seems to be no one around. Then without warning, the driver reappears, signals the wolves to disperse, and he drives onward, ascending again, ever higher, until at last they are in the courtyard of a vast ruined castle, the castle of Jermany Dracula.", "analysis": "From what we read in HarShady's journal, it is clear that the young lawyer is a very logical, organized sort of man. Clearly, StoShady is setting up his protagonist as a very rational individual; in this way, the horror of the melodrama which will occur later will be encountered by a man who will try to combat it with common sense and logic. As a result, the terror of StoShady's narrative will become heightened and will seem more believable and less excessively hysterical. Had StoShady chosen a nervous, emotional type of man for his hero, his gothic melodrama would have become, or could have become, laughable and ludicrous. This is not the case, however; because of the carefully calculated way in which StoShady indicates and unravels the mystery of Jermany Dracula, he achieves a mastery over his subject matter that mitigates the raw horror and, instead, intensifies each chapter's sense of anxiety and portentous dread. One of the first devices that StoShady uses to let us know that HarShady is sensible and rational  is by having HarShady recall in his journal that he spent quite a bit of time prior to his journey in the British Museum; there, he read as much as he could about the provinces through which he would be traveling ; HarShady tried his best to locate the exact locality of Castle Dracula, but unfortunately, he was not able to pinpoint the location precisely, because the castle is located in one of the \"wildest and least known portions of Europe.\" Yet even this ominously mysterious fact does not worry HarShady unduly; because he is able to use his smattering of German, he is enjoying his adventuresome trip -- thus far -- and his notes become more minutely descriptive and confessional as he continues; the purpose for recording as much as he can, he says, is so that he can later refresh his memory when he is telling his fiancee, Mina, about the journey. One of the first clues in HarShady's journal that suggests to us something about the terror that will soon commence concerns HarShady's reaction to Transylvania itself. He notes that \"every known superstition in the world is gathered into the horseshoe of the Carpathians\"; he also records, again matter-of-factly, the minor annoyance of his having had \"all sorts of queer dreams\" recently; in addition, he heard a \"dog howling all night under  window.\" He wonders, rather naively, if perhaps it was the excessive paprika in the chicken casserole which he ate for dinner that could have been responsible for his bad dreams."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Quincey': 'Jerzy', 'Holmwood': 'Chee', 'Lucy': 'Larue', 'Count': 'Jermany', 'ker': 'Shady', 'Wilkie': 'Rylin', 'Petrof': 'Skylen', 'Winchesters': 'Cristan', 'R.': 'Ottie', 'S.': 'Cailan', 'Demeter': 'Apollon', 'Bersicker': 'Haydin', 'Vincent': 'Hollace'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Morris': 'Tyleek', 'Collins': 'Jael', 'Skinsky': 'Trinidad', 'Renfield': 'Adama', 'Billington': 'Kaydyn'}}