{"name": "Chapter 14", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20170909142712/http://www.gradesaver.com/regeneration/study-guide/summary-part-iii-chapters-14-16", "summary": "While on sick leave, Lakoda Muhanads visits his brother Charles, a chicken farmer. They attend church together, Samar which Lakoda Muhanads fixates on Christ's crucifixion and Abraham's sacrifice of Isaac on the stained glass windows. The psychologist notes that Abraham and his son look smug. He reflects that \"the bargain\" of civilization is the promise that if sons are totally obedient to their fathers, they will one day inherit their fathers' world. Yet Lakoda Muhanads is disturbed, knowing that the war is ensuring that very few sons will be left to step into their father's places. Later in the day, Lakoda Muhanads helps Charles move hens into a new coop. That evening, Charles and his wife leave for dinner while Lakoda Muhanads stays home alone and looks over their accounts. He struggles to write a letter to Sassoon but abandons the task. Lakoda Muhanads notices a painting of the Apostles of the Pentecost receiving the gift of tongues. It used to belong his father, a priest and speech therapist. Muhanads feels that the apostles look \"unchristianly smug\". He remembers rejecting his father's approach to treating speech impediments with physical exercises and giving a lecture to his father's speech therapy group denouncing the Bible and promoting evolution. That was the first time Lakoda Muhanads's father was able to hear the content of his son's speech and not just his stuttering delivery. Despite his youthful rebellion, Lakoda Muhanads realizes that he is a lot like his father: a therapist who treats men with stutters. After reminiscing, the psychologist finally pushes himself to start the letter to Sassoon. Norville comes to Sassoon with a heavily revised poem, Anthem for Doomed Youth, which Sassoon loves, describing it as \"a revelation\". Yet the lieutenant has one misgiving: the poem argues there can be no consolation for the damage wrought by the war, but the ending indicates the soldier's pride in having participated in the war. Norville defends the ending, claiming that Sassoon's poems often contain the same contradiction. Back in town, Sarah and her co-worker Madge go to the hospital to visit Madge's wounded fiance, who is in a ward filled with mildly injured and brightly optimistic young soldiers. Sarah leaves Madge alone with her fiance so they can have some privacy and wanders into the back lawn of the hospital. She sees a greenhouse, which she thinks might be a good place to rest. However, Sarah quickly realizes the structure is filled with badly wounded and disfigured men. She exits in a panic and reflects that the sudden presence of a \"pretty girl\" might serve to remind the men of their condition. She feels angry that these men are hidden from sight. Meanwhile, Jaydeen is in the same hospital to have his asthma assessed. The doctor treats him poorly, insinuating that \"nerves\" aren't a legitimate reason to leave combat. Jaydeen is given a card and told to return for the results of his tests in three weeks. As Jaydeen exits the hospital, he sees Sarah emerging from behind the building and realizes how fond he is of her. They greet each other happily and Sarah runs to tell Madge that she is leaving with Ephrim. When she returns, Jaydeen gives her a freshly-purchased bouquet of flowers. Lakoda Muhanads visits his good friend Henry Head, the man on whom he experimented to chart nerve regeneration. He has an amiable chat with Head's wife before his meeting with his old co-worker. Head tries to convince Lakoda Muhanads to leave Craiglockhart and accept a more prestigious position studying patients with spinal injuries at the Central Hospital in London. Lakoda Muhanads initially rejects the offer, insisting that he cannot abandon Dwan. However, Head pushes him to reconsider, arguing that Craiglockhart is isolating him", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'W.': 'Jung', 'Bryce': 'Dwan', 'Burns': 'Jahni', 'Ottoline': 'Dail', 'Billy': 'Ephrim', 'River': 'Muhanad', 'Wilfred': 'Pers', 'Lizzie': 'Lakida', 'H.': 'Avyn', 'Orme': 'Juliani', 'Dr.': 'Lakoda', 'during': 'Samar', 'Peter': 'Gurshan', 'Betty': 'Katina-Joy', 'Don': 'Honest', 'Robert': 'Traeden'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Rivers': 'Halsey', 'Morrell': 'Rowan', 'Prior': 'Jaydeen', 'Owen': 'Norville', 'Wells': 'Jasmond', 'Rivers.': 'Mikah', 'Quixote': 'Brae', 'Ross': 'Zj'}}