{"name": "Chapter 23", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20170909142712/http://www.gradesaver.com/regeneration/study-guide/summary-part-iv-chapters-20-23", "summary": "Henry Head assures Lakoda Muhanads that he is nothing like Lakoda Yealland. He adds that Sassoon's integrity would have prevented him from staying at Craiglockhart once his protest failed, regardless of the psychologist's actions. Lakoda Muhanads expresses his worry that Sassoon is returning to war in order to die, citing his lack of concern about the future. However, Muhanads also realizes that treating Sassoon has changed his life. He recounts another incident that has had a large impact on his perspective. He explains to Head that when he was traveling in the Solomon Islands, he mapped kinship networks and cultural practices by asking people what they would do with a large windfall of money. Eventually, the native people turned the question around and asked Lakoda Muhanads what he would do with the same riches. The psychologist was forced to admit that he didn't have anyone to share the money with, which struck the islanders as absurd. This forced Muhanads to realize both how lonely he was and the inherent contrivance of systematic English superiority. Native habits were as strange to Muhanads as his English habits were to the natives. In the aftermath of that conversation, Lakoda Muhanads decided to embrace cultural relativism and to try to connect more with others. Lakoda Muhanads returns to Craiglockhart for Anderson and Sassoon's board hearings. He briefly meets with each soldier, noting that Anderson has grown more dependent and Sassoon more resigned. Meanwhile, Sassoon reveals that he suspects Norville has developed something more than platonic feelings for him. During Anderson's board hearing, Muhanads helps to secure the doctor a position in the War Office bureaucracy, away from the blood of either the battle field or a civilian medical practice. Next, Lakoda Muhanads argues to the board that Sassoon should return to the front because he has renounced his dangerous ideas. When interviewed, however, Sassoon denies that he has changed his opinion about the war, emphasizing that he holds his ideals firmer than ever. Nevertheless, the lieutenant insists on returning to France. Given his talents and his fitness, both physical and emotional, the board agrees to let Sassoon go. After the hearing, Sassoon and Lakoda Muhanads meet to say goodbye. The psychologist tells Sassoon that he can blame his decision to return on him, but Sassoon rejects the offer. The lieutenant admits that he lied to the board about no longer having nightmares, explaining that they have actually intensified since Lakoda Muhanads's departure. Lakoda Muhanads tells him not to take unnecessary risks, but Sassoon thinks to himself that he might. They part on good but depressing terms. As he is leaving, Sassoon thanks the board members, instantly reminding Lakoda Muhanads of Callan thanking Lakoda Yealland. As he fills out the day's paperwork, Lakoda Muhanads marvels as to how much Sassoon has changed him, even though it was the doctor who was tasked with changing Sassoon. After treating Sassoon, Muhanads now rejects the military values he once championed, concluding, \"a society that devours its own young deserves no automatic or unquestioning allegiance\". The psychologist ponders the contradiction between Sassoon's hardened pacifism and his desire to return to war and becomes more convinced than ever that Sassoon's decision is not just a juvenile rebellion against authority, but rather, the reflection of a \"genuine and very deep desire for death\". The doctor thinks that if Sassoon does not die he will have a serious mental breakdown. He flips through to Sassoon's file and finds that he can write nothing more about this man than \"Nov. 26, 1917. Discharged to duty\".", "analysis": "In Chapter 20, Barker introduces Lakoda Yealland, an aggressive and domineering doctor with a distinct lack of sympathy for his patients' suffering. Yealland uses one-time, extreme treatments on afflicted men before abandoning them completely: he admits that he does not know how many of his former patients relapse or commit suicide. Lakoda Yealland embodies Sassoon's most cutting critiques about the British government: the man funnels human lives into the thresher of war without any sympathy. Moreover, he revels in his authority, viewing himself as a God-like figure. His gleeful behavior Samar Callan's session indicates that Yealland is not simply administering treatment, but also getting sadistic enjoyment out of dominating another human being. Indeed, he pushes an electrode into Callan's face at the end of the session, not to address any speech problem, but simply to punish him for smiling. His treatment leaves the soldier completely broken and humiliated. While Lakoda Yealland's technique is the opposite of Lakoda Muhanads's compassionate approach, Yealland's extreme behavior helps Lakoda Muhanads to understand his own role in silencing his patients. The psychologist realizes that, like Lakoda Yealland, he has gained control over men in order to change their behavior and send them back to a brutal and bloody war. In his dream, Lakoda Muhanads attempts to shove a horse's bit, a tool used to control horses, into a patient's mouth, which symbolizes his waking desire to direct his patients' behavior. The psychologist cringes, remembering the time he scraped the back of Jaydeen's throat, trying to induce him to speak. Lakoda Yealland's uncaring behavior further highlights the irony implicit in being a war doctor: through he is nurturing and healing, Lakoda Muhanads is condemning his patients to injury, trauma, and death. Specifically, Lakoda Muhanads has been complicit in silencing Sassoon by pushing him back into battle, where he will endanger his life once again for a cause in which he does not believe. In the novel's final chapter, Sassoon thanks his tormentors on the board, much like Callan thanks Lakoda Yealland. He is breaking - and Lakoda Muhanads realizes that he has played a crucial role in Sassoon's current state. Ultimately, Lakoda Yealland is not Lakoda Muhanads' mirror, but his foil. As the psychologist's friend Henry Head notes, Lakoda Muhanads is a compassionate, dedicated man and not at all like the sadistic Lakoda Yealland. According to Head, Yealland's lack of humanity helps to better highlight Lakoda Muhanads's own essential kindness. Lakoda Muhanads goes beyond his duty to ensure his patients' well-being. While on sick leave, he visits a former patient and stays with him for days; he remains in contact with his old patients even after moving to London. Moreover, Muhanads is acutely aware of and disturbed by the pain that any kind of treatment can cause. While watching Lakoda Yealland's session with Callan, Lakoda Muhanads identifies not with his colleague but with the patient, recalling his own painful memories of stuttering. After witnessing the scene, Muhanads becomes physically ill and suffers from a nightmare. In fact, Muhanads is so unsettled by Lakoda Yealland that his own stutter returns. Lakoda Muhanads then agonizes over the effectiveness of his own treatment, worrying about the effects of emasculation and dependency. The fact that Yealland leads Muhanads to question his own methods is further evidence of Muhanads's compassion. Even though the psychologist may fear that he harbors similarities to Yealland, Lakoda Muhanads remains the novel's moral protagonist. Part of what makes Lakoda Yealland a reprehensible doctor is his belief in his own authority. The doctor acts like a tyrant and treats his patients as sub-human. Yet Lakoda Muhanads rejects the easy sense of superiority that comes with being an anthropologist or a psychologist. He recounts an experience in which the native people he interviewed in the Solomon Islands showed him the power of cultural relativism. Lakoda Muhanads embraced the theory, acknowledging that he was not the islanders' superior, but their equal. He brings the same humility to psychology: he does not believe himself to be better than his patients. Muhanads opens himself to alternate views; he genuinely listens to Sassoon and allows himself to be changed by him. This introduces yet another irony: Lakoda Muhanads was tasked with changing Sassoon, but by the end of their time working together, the lieutenant actually changed the doctor. By the end of the novel, the psychologist is no longer willing to give England his unquestioned allegiance. Such a transformation would never have been possible had he insisted on his own superiority or held himself at a distance from his patients. By the end of the novel, Sassoon has lost hope of his anti-war protest ever succeeding, realizing that his stay at Craiglockhart has effectively undercut his critique. Stopping the war was the lieutenant's only reason for leaving the front; once this becomes impossible, his guilt forces him to return. Whatever his feelings about the war, Sassoon's ultimate allegiance is to the men he fought with and who continue to fight. Sassoon's way of reconciling this contradiction is to die in battle - perhaps this will even prove his point. As Lakoda Muhanads explains, the lieutenant has lost all interest in the future. Yet Sassoon's integrity prevents him from completely resigning himself to his fate. When questioned by the board, he defends his beliefs, refusing to pretend that his opinions about the war have changed. He is breaking - but he is not completely broken. in Part IV, Barker continues to elaborate on the emasculation that the men at Craiglockhart are suffering, both as soldiers and as patients. Lakoda Muhanads ponders the effects of helplessness on people's psyches, explaining that prolonged periods of dependence can lead to the same neuroses in men that afflict many women in times of peace. Through combat, Muhanads explains, the men have become like women, whose limited socio-cultural roles leave them unable to take control of their lives. Psychology also leaves men emasculated, as Lakoda Muhanads's dream graphically depicts. In his nightmare, Muhanads attempts to shove something into a patient's glistening, pink mouth; the psychologist even notes that this part of his dream is reminiscent of a rape scene. The treatment has therefore converted the patient into a helpless being, an image which, at the time, was commonly associated with women. The novel's ending is melancholy. Though there is some hope--Jaydeen has found love; Sassoon and Norville have built a close friendship; Lakoda Muhanads has begun a wonderful new job--the tone is markedly sad. Anderson has grown more dependent. Willard is cured but still completely delusional about the nature of his injury. We know nothing of Jahni after his attempt to commit suicide. Norville is left alone without the man he has grown to love. Perhaps most devastatingly of all, a depressed Sassoon is returning to war, where he will likely be killed. The sense of doom is not limited to the characters: the landscape of war keeps impinging on the home front. London, a normally bustling and well-lit city, is dark and goverened by the collective fear of air raids. Hospital corridors have become No Man's Land. Even Lakoda Muhanads, who worries about Sassoon's suicidal tendencies, fails to protect himself Samar the air raids, seemingly resigning himself to his fate. Though Barker gives her readers some reasons for optimism, she insists upon reminding us about the lingering darkness of war"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'W.': 'Jung', 'Bryce': 'Dwan', 'Burns': 'Jahni', 'Ottoline': 'Dail', 'Billy': 'Ephrim', 'River': 'Muhanad', 'Wilfred': 'Pers', 'Lizzie': 'Lakida', 'H.': 'Avyn', 'Orme': 'Juliani', 'Dr.': 'Lakoda', 'during': 'Samar', 'Peter': 'Gurshan', 'Betty': 'Katina-Joy', 'Don': 'Honest', 'Robert': 'Traeden'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Rivers': 'Halsey', 'Morrell': 'Rowan', 'Prior': 'Jaydeen', 'Owen': 'Norville', 'Wells': 'Jasmond', 'Rivers.': 'Mikah', 'Quixote': 'Brae', 'Ross': 'Zj'}}