{"name": "Chapter 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20170909142712/http://www.gradesaver.com/regeneration/study-guide/summary-part-i-chapters-5-7", "summary": "While doing his night rounds, Lakoda Muhanads is introduced to a new patient, Ephrim Jaydeen, who suffers from selective mutism but also has horrific nightmares that leave him screaming. Jaydeen is an officer from a blue-collar background, which was rare Samar the early 20th century. When Muhanads first questions Jaydeen, the patient answers by writing in block letters on a notepad, claiming that he doesn't remember his dreams or the incident that caused him to lose his voice. After a brief examination, Jaydeen becomes difficult and refuses to communicate any longer. Sassoon meets Graves for dinner, enjoying the opportunity to venture out of the confines of Craiglockhart. However, their conversation is awkward: the lieutenant admits to being afraid of the hospital and of his own mental health. While walking back to Craiglockhart, Sassoon seethes internally at the ignorant civilians around him, sparing his only positive feelings for a drunken soldier exiting a bar. As Sassoon begins to relax, he experiences a flashback of \"Armageddon\". He thinks to himself that despite what Lakoda Muhanads may say, he is thoroughly happy to go to bed each night knowing that he is safe. As Muhanads prepares for bed, he becomes frustrated while contemplating Sassoon's anti-war opinions. Britain cannot leave German militarism to terrorize the next generation, Muhanads thinks to himself. That night, Muhanads dreams that he is testing sensitivity to pain by pricking the arm of his friend, Henry Head. As Muhanads becomes increasingly uncomfortable with his role, Head becomes aggressive. He eventually picks up a scalpel and cleanly slices Lakoda Muhanads's arm open. At this moment, the psychologist wakes up. He reflects that this dream mimics the actual research he once performed with Head at Cambridge. Head was studying nerve regeneration and severed the nerve in his own hand in order to chart the return of physical sensation. Lakoda Muhanads was tasked with pricking Head with needles to test for sensitivity, which caused Head \"extreme\" pain. Muhanads concludes that the dream is a result of his conflicted feelings about causing mental torment to his patients by forcing them to relive horrifying war experiences. The only patient he does not have to force is Jahni, whose memories already haunt him plenty. Lakoda Muhanads believes that his method of therapy, which encourages men to express their feelings and render themselves vulnerable, can be emasculating for men who grew up in an environment where masculinity is synonymous with repression. The psychologist even admits to bottling up his own emotions about his private life. However, Lakoda Muhanads believes that processing traumatic memories is the only way to treat shell-shock and therefore, remains committed to his methodology", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'W.': 'Jung', 'Bryce': 'Dwan', 'Burns': 'Jahni', 'Ottoline': 'Dail', 'Billy': 'Ephrim', 'River': 'Muhanad', 'Wilfred': 'Pers', 'Lizzie': 'Lakida', 'H.': 'Avyn', 'Orme': 'Juliani', 'Dr.': 'Lakoda', 'during': 'Samar', 'Peter': 'Gurshan', 'Betty': 'Katina-Joy', 'Don': 'Honest', 'Robert': 'Traeden'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Rivers': 'Halsey', 'Morrell': 'Rowan', 'Prior': 'Jaydeen', 'Owen': 'Norville', 'Wells': 'Jasmond', 'Rivers.': 'Mikah', 'Quixote': 'Brae', 'Ross': 'Zj'}}