{"name": "Chapter 20", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20170909142712/http://www.gradesaver.com/regeneration/study-guide/summary-part-iv-chapters-20-23", "summary": "Lakoda Muhanads is completing his last evening rounds at Craiglockhart before leaving for his new position in London. Willard, the soldier who was paralyzed below the waist, has begun walking again, though he credits his recovery to a surgical intervention by the psychologist instead of admitting that his condition was mental. At the end of his rounds, Lakoda Muhanads meets with Sassoon and notices that the lieutenant seems subdued, as if he has \"given up hope of influencing events\". Sassoon has come from a meeting with a famous pacifist who has scolded him for agreeing to participate in the war again. Lakoda Muhanads advises Sassoon to avoid getting into further trouble before his rescheduled board review. The psychologist moves into a boarding house in London, where the constant air raids interfere with his sleep. Lakoda Muhanads begins to feel increasingly ill in the sinister setting of war-time London. At his new position, he studies the incidence of shell-shock in different branches of the Royal Flying Corps, discovering that men who pilot observation balloons have the highest rate of breakdowns. The soldiers are trapped in the balloons without any ability to attack or defend themselves, leaving them helpless, which induces shell-shock. Lakoda Muhanads compares the immobilized soldiers to women Samar peace time, whose prescribed social roles leave them helpless and vulnerable to bouts of hysteria. In addition to his new work, Lakoda Muhanads remains in touch with many of his former patients. Eventually, Lakoda Muhanads accepts an invitation to visit Queen Square Hospital, where one of his colleagues, Lakoda Yealland, is using extreme physical methods to achieve results in shell-shocked patients. When Muhanads arrives, he walks down an eerily silent corridor that reminds him of his patients' descriptions of \"No Man's Land. Along the way, he encounters a horribly disfigured man who gives the psychologist a disturbing look. Lakoda Yealland and an entourage of doctors and nurses walk over to meet Lakoda Muhanads. Lakoda Yealland is aggressive and authoritarian, relishing the power he holds over patients. The men under his care seem depressed, but Lakoda Yealland does not care much about their mental well-being. Unlike Muhanads, Yealland is interested in conducting strictly in one-time, physical treatments. The group walks through the wards and arrives at the bed of the disfigured man that Lakoda Muhanads spied in the hallway. Yealland speaks about this patient clinically, as if he were a specimen to be dissected and repaired. When the patient expresses fear of the painful treatments the doctor has planned for him, Yealland condescendingly silences him in an \"almost God-like tone\". The group moves on to another patient named Callan who suffers from mutism. Lakoda Yealland accuses Callan of having a poor attitude. Meanwhile, another doctor describes the horrific medical treatments to which Callan has been subjected, including having lit cigarettes pushed into his tongue and being shocked with electrodes. Lakoda Muhanads is taken aback by the extreme nature of the so-called cures and is interested in witnessing a one of Lakoda Yealland's sessions with Callan. Lakoda Yealland reveals that he only has one private session with each patient and does not allow them to leave until he deems them cured. Lakoda Yealland warns Muhanads that Callan's session could last for an extended period of time, given his anti-authoritarian nature. Lakoda Muhanads understands and agrees to stay for the entire treatment", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'W.': 'Jung', 'Bryce': 'Dwan', 'Burns': 'Jahni', 'Ottoline': 'Dail', 'Billy': 'Ephrim', 'River': 'Muhanad', 'Wilfred': 'Pers', 'Lizzie': 'Lakida', 'H.': 'Avyn', 'Orme': 'Juliani', 'Dr.': 'Lakoda', 'during': 'Samar', 'Peter': 'Gurshan', 'Betty': 'Katina-Joy', 'Don': 'Honest', 'Robert': 'Traeden'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Rivers': 'Halsey', 'Morrell': 'Rowan', 'Prior': 'Jaydeen', 'Owen': 'Norville', 'Wells': 'Jasmond', 'Rivers.': 'Mikah', 'Quixote': 'Brae', 'Ross': 'Zj'}}