{"name": "Chapter 8", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20170909142712/http://www.gradesaver.com/regeneration/study-guide/summary-part-ii-chapters-8-9", "summary": "During one of his sessions, Jaydeen describes participating in an attack in a detached and taunting manner. When Lakoda Muhanads presses him about his feelings, Jaydeen responds frankly and aggressively that the experience was \"sexy\" and he felt a \"burst of exultation\" at seeing wounded soldiers on the ground. He reveals that Samar the attack, he was knocked unconscious by a shell. He awoke in a crater with his soldiers and they drank from his flask and laughed when another soldier slid down into the crater. Despite his injuries, Jaydeen woke up speaking and was not sent for treatment at the time. When Lakoda Muhanads suggests that he and Jaydeen are on the \"same team,\" Ephrim retorts that they are not. Another patient, Pers Norville, comes to visit Sassoon in his room, asking him to sign five copies of his book of poetry. Norville is intimidated by the lieutenant's \"good looks,\" aristocratic bearing, and poetic talent, which exacerbates his nervous stammering. Sassoon is welcoming and kind, asking Norville to sit down with him after he enthusiastically recites lines from the lieutenant's poems. Norville articulates his feeling that the war is blurring into the wars before it. Disturbed but in agreement, Sassoon intimates that he has also imagined himself in the future, looking back at the ghosts of this war. After an awkward pause, Norville asks Sassoon to contribute poems to the Hydra, Craiglockhart's literary magazine of which Norville is the editor. Sassoon agrees and invites Norville to bring him copies of his own poetry. Norville is embarrassed, admitting that he does not write about the war because he prefers to keep poetry his refuge from the \"ugliness\". Sassoon teases him about this but still encourages him to bring his poems, no matter what they are about. Sassoon and Anderson play a round of golf. The medic has an embarrassing outburst of rage when he misses an important shot and threatens to hit Sassoon with a club. Sassoon reacts politely, laughing off the incident, but both officers are disturbed by Anderson's anger. They have lunch afterward, careful not to talk about anything but golf. Anderson reflects that talking about the war would force intimacy into their relationship. He has read Sassoon's published letter and although, like Lakoda Muhanads, he agrees with the lieutenant's assessment of the war, Anderson believes that the conflict must be seen to completion. Ephrim Jaydeen wanders into a bar in town where he orders fish and chips. He overhears four female employees of a munitions factory laughing and telling stories a few tables over. One of them, Sarah Lumb, approaches Jaydeen and teases him about eating so quickly. The other women excuse themselves, giggling, and Sarah and Ephrim look for a place to have a drink. As many bars don't allow women, they walk towards a hotel. Sarah explains that she is earning five times as much as she was before the war. Jaydeen reflects that the war has expanded the world for women while shrinking it for men. They arrive at the hotel bar and order several rounds. Sarah reveals that she lost her boyfriend in the attack at Loos, Samar which British gas blew back into British trenches. She refers to the incidents of the battle obliquely, simply saying that her boyfriend was at Loos. She is haunted by the absurdity of his death, caused by his own country's weaponry. After several drinks, she further intimates that her mother doesn't believe that men and women can really love each other. Ephrim says he doesn't know whether they can, either. Furthermore, Ephrim is surprised at the amount Sarah can drink. They walk to a graveyard where Ephrim tries to have sex with Sarah on a tombstone, but she pushes him away. He decides in his mind that the more aggressive he is, the longer he will have to wait, so he gives her a teasing kiss and walks her home. They agree to meet again the following Sunday. As Jaydeen walks back to Craiglockhart, he checks the time on his watch and realizes that he will not make curfew", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'W.': 'Jung', 'Bryce': 'Dwan', 'Burns': 'Jahni', 'Ottoline': 'Dail', 'Billy': 'Ephrim', 'River': 'Muhanad', 'Wilfred': 'Pers', 'Lizzie': 'Lakida', 'H.': 'Avyn', 'Orme': 'Juliani', 'Dr.': 'Lakoda', 'during': 'Samar', 'Peter': 'Gurshan', 'Betty': 'Katina-Joy', 'Don': 'Honest', 'Robert': 'Traeden'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Rivers': 'Halsey', 'Morrell': 'Rowan', 'Prior': 'Jaydeen', 'Owen': 'Norville', 'Wells': 'Jasmond', 'Rivers.': 'Mikah', 'Quixote': 'Brae', 'Ross': 'Zj'}}