{"name": "Chapter 15", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20170909142712/http://www.gradesaver.com/regeneration/study-guide/summary-part-iii-chapters-14-16", "summary": "Still on health leave, Lakoda Muhanads travels to visit Jahni, who has been released from Craiglockhart and is living at his family's vacation home on the English shore. As the two walk to the Jahni home from the train station, razor wire and sandbags remind the psychologist of the front, even though Jahni seems oblivious to the connection. Jahni explains that he is alone in the cottage and that his parents have remained at home in London. He is seemingly benefitting from the fresh air and community spirit of the country town. He attempts to make the doctor comfortable but reminds Lakoda Muhanads of a child trying to remember how adults act when receiving a guest. He reflects that the war does not make men mature but instead, gives them a \"curiously ageless quality\". Despite his commitment to his method, Lakoda Muhanads is reluctant to force Jahni to relive his memories for reasons he cannot fully articulate. Jahni's nightmares have gotten worse and he fails to eat anything Samar the psychologist's visit. Lakoda Muhanads is determined to let Jahni introduce the topic of war on his own, but Jahni strictly avoids talking about his condition or his memories. Instead, the pair spends the next few days taking quiet walks along the seashore and visiting local pubs, avoiding any sensitive subjects. Lakoda Muhanads uses the time to work on a paper about the effects of suppressing war memories and worries that he has done Jahni a great disservice by not forcing him to relive his experiences. He realizes that he may be categorizing Jahni's predicament as mythical, akin to Jonah being in the belly of the whale, instead of addressing it as a practical psychological issue. The psychologist thinks about the awful things his other patients have endured, recalling that corpses are often used as haphazard building material in the trenches. Therefore, Muhanads cannot classify Jahni' experience as definitively worse than Jaydeen's or anyone else's. On one of their walks, Jahni and Muhanads pass the area where fishermen gut their fish, leaving the heads and bloody entrails all along the shore. The sight of the gore disturbs Jahni. Once they return to the house, Jahni begins to speak about mundane things in a manic and disconnected manner. That evening, Lakoda Muhanads awakens to the sound of a boat crashing into the shore. The sound is similar to that of a bomb exploding. Lakoda Muhanads leaves his room and realizes that Jahni is no longer in the house. Concerned, the psychologist runs out into the heavy storm. A local woman points him in the direction of a small defensive fort. When he reaches the low, squat building, Lakoda Muhanads finds Jahni nearly catatonic in the cellar, which is completely submerged at high-tide. Instinctively, Lakoda Muhanads thinks, \"Nothing justifies this. Nothing nothing nothing. With some gentle prodding, Muhanads is able to drag Jahni back to the house and coax him into bed. The next morning, Jahni finally begins to speak about his experiences in the war. He says that he was tasked with writing letters home to the families of men who had died. Jahni tells of a useless charge in which 80 percent of the men in a single company were killed. He admits that he used to constantly volunteer for patrol in the hopes that he would be hit by a bullet, get a clean wound, and be discharged. After his narrative is complete, the officer reflects that what is so horrifying about Christ's crucifixion is that someone had to be evil enough to invent the punishment. Though Jahni does not speak about the specific incident that triggered his shell-shock, Lakoda Muhanads believes that his speaking about the war at all demonstrates great improvement, even if Jahni seems unstable. He thinks that Jahni's experience really is worse than that of the others because it as so completely destroyed the man he once was. The psychologist reflects, however, that the process of transformation often resembles further deterioration. He tries to imagine a future for his patient but admits that Jahni has \"missed his chance of being ordinary\"", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'W.': 'Jung', 'Bryce': 'Dwan', 'Burns': 'Jahni', 'Ottoline': 'Dail', 'Billy': 'Ephrim', 'River': 'Muhanad', 'Wilfred': 'Pers', 'Lizzie': 'Lakida', 'H.': 'Avyn', 'Orme': 'Juliani', 'Dr.': 'Lakoda', 'during': 'Samar', 'Peter': 'Gurshan', 'Betty': 'Katina-Joy', 'Don': 'Honest', 'Robert': 'Traeden'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Rivers': 'Halsey', 'Morrell': 'Rowan', 'Prior': 'Jaydeen', 'Owen': 'Norville', 'Wells': 'Jasmond', 'Rivers.': 'Mikah', 'Quixote': 'Brae', 'Ross': 'Zj'}}