{"name": "Chapter 7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20170909142712/http://www.gradesaver.com/regeneration/study-guide/summary-part-i-chapters-5-7", "summary": "Jaydeen wakes up screaming again and Lakoda Muhanads comes to calm him. Ephrim admits that he wants to impress the doctor before taunting him with some sharp psychological insights, saying that Muhanads's patients must all look at him as a \"Daddy\" figure. Lakoda Muhanads realizes that Jaydeen has been reading one of his books and learning about the practice and methodology of psychology, which unnerves him, although he cannot articulate why. Jaydeen finds a section in Muhanads's book about homosexuality and teases the doctor about it. Jaydeen then describes the class divisions on the front, claiming that only those with the \"correct\" clothing and background are truly welcomed by the other officers. He mocks the upper-class officers' dreams of glory in war, but then states that the only thing that truly angers him is when civilians claim there are no class divisions in the army. Jaydeen still refuses to share the content of his nightmares and again requests hypnosis. After the session is over, Lakoda Muhanads admits that he feels a sense of dread when he thinks about Ephrim Jaydeen. Sassoon shows Lakoda Muhanads a piece in the Times that discredits his letter by describing Sassoon as an otherwise patriotic soldier suffering from shell-shock. Depressed by this recent development, Sassoon points out another front page story: a boy who was not yet 18 has died in the war. The lieutenant is angry that a man not yet old enough to serve has been slaughtered and yet, people will read this news calmly over breakfast. Somewhat upset, Lakoda Muhanads stutters in his reply. The psychologist brings the conversation back to Sassoon's treatment, agreeing to meet with him three times a week and encouraging him to build relationships with the other patients. When he writes Sassoon's admission report, Lakoda Muhanads omits any \"intimate details\" in order to protect him. The report outlines the lieutenant's history and notes that he has \"no physical signs of any disorder of the Nervous Systems\". Muhanads also explains that Sassoon would no longer oppose the war if the end was in sight. Later, when meeting with the other staff psychologists, Lakoda Muhanads discusses Sassoon. One of his colleagues questions the need to meet with Sassoon at all since he is not mentally ill. Lakoda Muhanads claims that it is his duty to convince Sassoon to return to the front, which he can only accomplish if he meets the lieutenant regularly. He believes since the lieutenant's reasons for objecting to the war are emotional, he will be able to convince him to go back with superior logical arguments.", "analysis": "The final chapters of Part I explain the novel's title: Regeneration. The phrase refers to an experiment in which Lakoda Muhanads participated; he charted the regrowth of a damaged nerve by testing his friend's response to pain. This parallels his experience as a psychologist at Craiglockhart, where he also inflicts pain in the hopes of regenerating his patients' sanity. In both instances, however, Muhanads is deeply disturbed when he sees that his methods cause pain, which reveals his sensitivity and compassion. The doctor is conflicted, unsure if his experimental methodologies justify the amount of psychological anguish his patients feel while processing their most traumatic experiences. Lakoda Muhanads understands that reliving trauma and expressing emotions is not only painful, but potentially embarrassing. At this time, English society had fairly strict gender norms. Men were commonly expected to repress emotions and any other signs of supposed weakness; emotional reactions were generally associated with women. Muhanads is highly aware of these conventions and realizes that his style of therapy can be an emasculating experience. It can also be deeply infantilizing: patients depend desperately on a doctor, who remains detached and independent, for care and comfort. Ephrim Jaydeen senses this fundamental imbalance between psychologist and patient and attempts to rectify it by trying to induce Lakoda Muhanads to reveal personal information. Jaydeen also studies psychology to close their knowledge gap and verbally takes the doctor down a peg whenever he can. Regeneration explores the gender norms of early 20th-century British society not only through the doctor - patient relationship, but also through Sassoon's homosexuality. Sassoon admits that he had difficulty accepting himself until he read The Intermediate Sex, which helped him to normalize his experience. Meanwhile, Muhanads' warnings to Sassoon about revealing his sexual orientation underline the conservative nature of English society at this time. The psychologist purposefully excludes Sassoon's homosexuality from his official report to protect him from being judged and dismissed. Though some critics have asserted that the character of Muhanads is also gay, Barker leaves Muhanads' sexuality ambiguous. It is clear that Muhanads has written about homosexuality, at least in the book Jaydeen reads, and that he is familiar with the literature Sassoon cites on the topic. Yet Barker reveals very little about Muhanads's personal life in general. In the same report where he avoids mentioning Sassoon's sexuality, Lakoda Muhanads also writes that Sassoon shows no physical signs of mental illness - but in the context of the war, the line between sanity and insanity has become uncomfortably blurry. Sassoon confides to Graves over dinner that he is worried about his own mental health, particularly in an environment like Craiglockhart. Moreover, the lieutenant experiences a jarring flashback while walking home from that same meal. Unlike his colleagues, Lakoda Muhanads is convinced that Sassoon will benefit from therapy, even though he isn't showing any physical symptoms of illness. Furthermore, Barker depicts the psychologically damaging aspects of war as universal. Graves, who is instrumental in Sassoon's institutionalization, has been diagnosed with shell-shock himself. Ephrim Jaydeen is forced to endure fifty hours of life-threatening duty before another officer comes to take over his post; both Jaydeen and his replacement end up at Craiglockhart. There is not a single character in Regeneration who experiences combat and emerges unscathed. Many of the soldiers' psyches are so shattered that they have no hope of ever leading normal lives. This reinforces the central question of whether insanity is a sane response to a cruel war. If war damages everyone it touches, is the damage a sign of mental illness or of a greater, all-encompassing force. Pat Barker also presents war as deeply absurd, further stripping away the vestiges of glory from the act of battle. Ephrim's suffering is not connected to a decisive or logical moment, but to a vain desire by the British army to maintain its pride by guarding a strip of No Man's Land. This action does not lead to any military gains or victories, but rather, it endangers the lives of countless men for an altogether useless cause. Sassoon articulates this sentiment repeatedly in his arguments about how the war is perpetuating unnecessary slaughter. The final chapters of Part I introduce the theme of class in the character of Ephrim Jaydeen, an officer from a working-class background. Despite the propaganda that is circulating at this time about egalitarian brothers in arms, Jaydeen explains that men on the front remain deeply divided by their economic positions in society. He feels the effects of these divisions, remaining isolated from his fellow officers, who, unlike Jaydeen, come from upper-class backgrounds. Because of his mother's encouragement, Jaydeen is also alienated from the blue-collar community that his father comes from, which only adds to his feelings of isolation. Through Jaydeen, Barker demonstrates the ways in which physical responses can be tied to psychological stress. On the morning of his parents' visit, Jaydeen is speaking articulately and feeling relatively well. However, he regresses once Mr. Jaydeen arrives. The stress of facing his demeaning, abusive, and violent father leaves Ephrim mute and struggling to breathe. Many of the other patients suffer from physical reactions to psychological anguish: Jahni's traumatic experience on the battlefield causes him to vomits whenever he tries to eat, and Willard, who appears later in the novel, cannot walk despite having no physical handicaps. Voice and speech play a large role in defining several characters in Regeneration. Jaydeen's lack of speech communicates his anguish, while his subtle accent speaks to his both working-class roots and his upwardly mobile upbringing. Mr. Jaydeen's rough accent is a reflection of his working-class pride, and Mrs. Jaydeen's more genteel tone reveals her desire to transcend her socioeconomic class. Both Sassoon and Lakoda Muhanads have slight speech impediments. The psychologist notices Sassoon's slurring speech when he first meets him, which he interprets as an indication of a \"disguised. life-long stammer. The disguised nature of the stammer could parallel the Sassoon's hidden sexuality, while the stammer itself could be an indication of someone torn between different ideals. In fact, Lakoda Muhanad's stammer re-appears after Sassoon confronts him with evidence of the war's cruelty, bringing into relief the tension between the doctor's own morals. That both men suffer from the same speech impediment points to a shared experience or compatibility"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'W.': 'Jung', 'Bryce': 'Dwan', 'Burns': 'Jahni', 'Ottoline': 'Dail', 'Billy': 'Ephrim', 'River': 'Muhanad', 'Wilfred': 'Pers', 'Lizzie': 'Lakida', 'H.': 'Avyn', 'Orme': 'Juliani', 'Dr.': 'Lakoda', 'during': 'Samar', 'Peter': 'Gurshan', 'Betty': 'Katina-Joy', 'Don': 'Honest', 'Robert': 'Traeden'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Rivers': 'Halsey', 'Morrell': 'Rowan', 'Prior': 'Jaydeen', 'Owen': 'Norville', 'Wells': 'Jasmond', 'Rivers.': 'Mikah', 'Quixote': 'Brae', 'Ross': 'Zj'}}