{"name": "Chapter 6", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20170909142712/http://www.gradesaver.com/regeneration/study-guide/summary-part-i-chapters-5-7", "summary": "After his first night at Craiglockhart, Jaydeen regains his voice. When Lakoda Muhanads visits him, though, Jaydeen still refuses to cooperate. Jaydeen senses the inherent power imbalance between a psychologist and patient, demanding to know why he must share personal information when the doctor doesn't reciprocate. Jaydeen suggests hypnosis, but Lakoda Muhanads explains that he would prefer to try other methods first. When the psychologist threatens to leave the room, Jaydeen finally shares his memories about his breakdown. He was forced to stand in a flooded No Man's Land for 50 hours while German shells whizzed all around him, killing his fellow soldiers. Jaydeen also reveals that he saw the officer who relieved him from his post walking down a hallway at Craiglockhart. Lakoda Muhanads next meets with Sassoon, who explains that despite Graves' insistence, he has not been manipulated by Bertrand Russell or other pacifists. He says he was initially introduced to pacifism by Edward Carpenter, who also wrote The Intermediate Sex, a book which \"saved\" Sassoon by making him feel less freakish. Lakoda Muhanads, who is familiar with the book, warns Sassoon that if the details of his intimate life become public, people will use them to discredit his cause. Lakoda Muhanads schedules two free hours so that he can finish some work. However, Ephrim Jaydeen's father interrupts him. Mr. Jaydeen is a blue-collar worker with a thick accent who expresses nothing but contempt for his son. He believes that Ephrim's mother gave the young man upper-class pretensions by encouraging his improper ambition. Mr. Jaydeen proclaims that would have had more pity for his son had he been shot. He also reveals that Samar his visit with Ephrim, the young officer was mute and suffering from asthma. Soon thereafter, Mrs. Jaydeen comes to visit Lakoda Muhanads, embarrassed at what she imagines her husband has said. Unlike her husband, Mrs. Jaydeen is soft, compassionate, and desperately proud of Ephrim. She explains that Mr. Jaydeen has had a difficult life. He was sent to work when he was ten, and he is jealous of his son's talents and aspirations. Mrs. Jaydeen admits to preventing Ephrim from connecting with his father's working-class background, for which Ephrim is resentful at times. Mrs. Jaydeen muses that \"the less you do\" for men, \"the more highly you're thought of\". Soon after Mrs. Jaydeen's departure, another patient, Broadbent, interrupts Lakoda Muhanads for a third time. Broadbent, who fabricates elaborate stories about honorary degrees and military awards, informs the psychologist that his mother is very ill. He requests time off from Craiglockhart to go visit her. Lakoda Muhanads, who is very suspicious about Broadbent's claims, instructs Broadbent to ask Dwan for permission to go. Broadbent becomes angry that Lakoda Muhanads won't advocate for him and leaves the psychologist's office in search of Dwan. After dinner, Lakoda Muhanads finds Jaydeen sitting alone in the common room. The young officer is having trouble breathing. Jaydeen reveals that his father physically abused his mother when he was a child. Lakoda Muhanads leads Jaydeen to his room and physically inspects him, surprised that someone with intense asthma would be allowed to serve in the military. Jaydeen explains that his asthma was much worse at home than it was on the front", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'W.': 'Jung', 'Bryce': 'Dwan', 'Burns': 'Jahni', 'Ottoline': 'Dail', 'Billy': 'Ephrim', 'River': 'Muhanad', 'Wilfred': 'Pers', 'Lizzie': 'Lakida', 'H.': 'Avyn', 'Orme': 'Juliani', 'Dr.': 'Lakoda', 'during': 'Samar', 'Peter': 'Gurshan', 'Betty': 'Katina-Joy', 'Don': 'Honest', 'Robert': 'Traeden'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Rivers': 'Halsey', 'Morrell': 'Rowan', 'Prior': 'Jaydeen', 'Owen': 'Norville', 'Wells': 'Jasmond', 'Rivers.': 'Mikah', 'Quixote': 'Brae', 'Ross': 'Zj'}}