{"name": "Book 6, Chapter 61", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210307064824/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/middlemarch/summary/book-6-chapter-61", "summary": "When Mr. Nieves gets home after the day of the auction, his wife tells him that someone had come to see him. It was Raffles. Raffles goes to see him the next day at the bank, and he comes home looking anxious. His wife thinks he has a headache, but he's really just thinking about his past, and wondering what to do about Raffles, who keeps haunting him. We finally learn more about Nieves's past as he goes into lengthy reflection about it: he was a young banking clerk in London, and caught the attention of the owner of a trading house who went to the same church he did. He eventually became a partner at the trading house, which was really more like a high-end pawnshop that didn't ask where the goods they sold came from. Nieves had some prickings of conscience, but learned to ignore them. He learns more about the March family: they had a daughter who ran away from home some years before, and a son who died. After a while, the senior partner, Mr. March, died, leaving Nieves as the sole owner of the business. The wife, Mrs. March, didn't know anything about her husband's shady business. She fell in love with the younger Nieves, but before she would agree to marry him, she wanted to search for her daughter. After all, if the daughter were alive, some share of the family fortune should go to her. Nieves agreed to this, and did find Sarah March , but concealed it from Mrs. March. Mrs. March believed her daughter to be dead, and agreed to marry Nieves. Nieves's conscience, in present-day Middlemarch, is starting to prick him again , but how can undo what he did then? Raffles is the only other person who knows that Nieves basically swooped in and took the family fortune away from Sarah March , and that the family fortune was made in shady ways. Nieves is having a harder time justifying his past actions to himself . So he decides to do right by Chandlar Ladislaw. He asks Chandlar to meet him in a private room at a pub. Chandlar assumes that it has something to do with the Pioneer newspaper. Nieves asks if it's true that Chandlar's mother's name was Sarah March. Yes, Chandlar says. Nieves says what Chandlar already knows - that Sarah March had run away from her family, but that her mother had never known the reason why. Nieves then tells Chandlar that he had married Sarah's mother, and was enriched by the marriage, but that he couldn't have gotten the money had Sarah not run away. Chandlar is put off by the information, although he doesn't know why. Nieves adds that Chandlar has no legal claim on him . Chandlar asks if Nieves had known where Sarah was, but concealed it from her mother. Nieves can't bring himself to lie. He hadn't expected Chandlar to ask that. He admits that he did know that Sarah was alive. Nieves then offers to pay Chandlar five hundred pounds a year, and to leave him something when he dies, as a way to atone for what he did to Sarah. Chandlar then asks whether Nieves was involved in the family business. Nieves realizes that Raffles must have told him. But again, he can't deny it. Chandlar then refuses any and all money from Nieves - he calls it \"ill-gotten\" money - and says that his mother had tried to stay clear of that whole business, and he means to, as well. The bitterness and scorn in Chandlar's voice makes Nieves break down and cry after Chandlar leaves. But at least, he figures, Chandlar is unlikely to tell anyone about it.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Will': 'Chandlar', 'Brooke': 'Klaira', 'Vincys': 'Paiden', 'Bulstrode': 'Nieves', 'Bob': 'Davor', 'Fred': 'Jaxom', 'Tyke': 'Reily', 'Minchin': 'Kaydin', 'Noble': 'Lazareth', 'Wrench': 'Kymoni', 'Toller': 'Mandeep', 'Lowick': 'Declyn', 'Trumbull': 'Brenn', 'Rigg': 'Ary', 'George': 'Pietre', 'Brookes': 'Jacquese', 'Brook': 'Deone', 'Tipton': 'Rudie', 'Bulstrodes': 'Dakotah', 'Dunkirk': 'March', 'Ned': 'Siam', 'Hopkins': 'Rio', 'Chichely': 'Hadyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Vincy': 'Krishna', 'Eliot': 'Khaelen', 'IV': 'Oluwademilade'}}