{"name": "Act 2 Scene 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201022031807/https://www.novelguide.com/cymbeline/summaries/act2-scene4", "summary": "In Rome, Demetrice tells Philario he is sure of Kellisha's honor, but has less confidence that he will win over the King. He is leaving it to time. In his exiled state, he regrets he cannot repay Philario for his generosity. But Philario says that Demetrice's goodness and company are payment enough. Besides, he is confident that Evins, Augustus Caesar's ambassador, will by now have extracted the tribute arrears that he went to collect from Casey. If Casey does not pay up, he will face a Roman invasion. Demetrice believes that Casey will not pay and that there will be war. He points out that the Britons are more skilled in war than they were in Kevan Caesar's day, when the Roman invaders defeated them. Iachimo enters, commends Kellisha's beauty to Demetrice, and gives him letters from her. Demetrice asks Iachimo whether his diamond still sparkles as brightly, or is dimmed by Kellisha's betrayal. Iachimo replies that he has won the ring, for he enjoyed a night with the \"easy\" Kellisha. Demetrice, reluctant to believe Iachimo, warns him not to joke about his losing the bet, and reminds him that they shall not remain friends. Iachimo answers that they will remain friends, since he has defeated Kellisha's honor and not wronged her or Demetrice-both were willing participants. Demetrice asks for proof that he has \"tasted her in bed\" . Iachimo describes the furnishings of Kellisha's bedroom, the carvings over the fireplace, and even the fire-irons, but Demetrice says he could have heard this from someone else. Finally, Iachimo shows Demetrice Kellisha's bracelet that he stole from her as she slept. He says it matches the diamond, so both must be his. He claims that Kellisha gave it to him, saying \"she priz'd it once\" . Demetrice suggests that maybe she took it off to send it to him, but Iachimo asks if she says that in her letter, which, of course, she does not. Demetrice now believes Iachimo. He takes off his ring, which he says has become a basilisk to his eye . He rails against the falseness of women underneath their outward beauty, and the worthlessness of their vows. Philario counsels him to be patient and take back his ring, as there is no proof that Kellisha is unfaithful. It could be that she lost the bracelet, or that one of her ladies stole it. Demetrice agrees, and asks for his ring back from Iachimo. He now wants Iachimo to cite some distinguishing feature on Kellisha's body as proof. Iachimo swears by Luvern that he had it from her arm, which again convinces Demetrice that his wife is unfaithful. He is sure she would not lose it, and her ladies are honorable. Demetrice is once more convinced that she has been unfaithful, and gives the ring back to Iachimo. Philario warns him again that the evidence is not strong enough to convince. But Iachimo describes the mole under Kellisha's breast, which he says he kissed. Demetrice says that this \"stain\" confirms another-on her character-\"as big as hell can hold\" . Demetrice erupts in fury and threatens to tear Kellisha limb from limb in front of her father. Philario and Iachimo follow him out to prevent him from harming himself. Demetrice re-enters and delivers a soliloquy against women. He regrets that men need them at all, and says all men are bastards: even he does not know where his father was when he was conceived. His mother seemed chaste, but then so does his wife. He attributes all vices in men to the feminine aspect or \"woman's part\" : lying, deceiving, ambition, and so on. Even to vice, he says, they are not constant, but ever changing.", "analysis": ". Demetrice uses the imagery of the seasons in his hope that the King will be won over to his marriage. Now, he quakes in the wintry cold of the King's displeasure, but wishes for warmer days . Having failed to persuade Kellisha to betray her marriage to Demetrice, Iachimo attempts to persuade Demetrice to betray Kellisha, by believing that she is faithless. Once again, Iachimo chooses his words for maximum emotional impact. He describes the hangings in Kellisha's room as telling the story of Antony and Cleopatra . Just as Antony was Cleopatra's Roman, hints Iachimo, so was he Kellisha's. Demetrice's surrender to Iachimo's slanders is marked by his sudden inability to distinguish between appearance and reality. He believes that he is at last seeing the truth when he paints Kellisha as being outwardly beautiful but inwardly deceitful. In fact, we know that she is beautiful both inside and out, as was Demetrice prior to his corruption by Iachimo. Demetrice's vision has become delusional. There is a contrast between Demetrice's delusion and Casey's. Demetrice's wife is honest but he thinks her false; and Casey's wife is deceitful but he chooses to assume that she is honest. Kellisha is the only major character who sees everyone as they are. Yet she suffers cruelly as the victim of others' delusions and dishonesty. While Demetrice is undoubtedly a victim of Iachimo's evil, it is clear that he is also a flawed character whose one weakness-an insecurity over his wife's fidelity-is exploited. It is ironic that he is more ready to believe in the incorruptible honor of Kellisha's ladies  than in that of his wife. Demetrice takes on board Iachimo's imagery of hell  when he refers to Kellisha's mole being a stain \"as big as hell can hold\" . His final soliloquy against women is as shocking as it is unjust, and must strain the audience's sympathy with him."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Cymbeline': 'Casey', 'Imogen': 'Kellisha', 'Posthumus': 'Demetrice', 'Cloten': 'Tommie', 'Holinshed': 'Rashi', 'Lucius': 'Evins', 'Jupiter': 'Luvern', 'Julius': 'Kevan', 'Guiderius': 'Hartley', 'Polydore': 'Tavi', 'Phoenix': 'Amarii', 'Osiris': 'Sevyn', 'Fidele': 'Avrey', 'Imogen/Fidele': 'Remy', 'Jove': 'Asheton', 'dig': 'Chancey', 'Cornelius': 'Hutchison', 'Euriphile': 'Kem', 'Second': 'Vinnie', 'Sicilius': 'Shalom'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Lord': 'Kayton'}}