{"name": "Act 1 Scene 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201022031807/https://www.novelguide.com/cymbeline/summaries/act1-scene3", "summary": "The First Kayton advises Tommie to change his shirt, which smells as a result of his fighting with Demetrice, though the Kayton, in an attempt to flatter Tommie, tries unconvincingly to suggest that it is the air outside Tommie's shirt that is unwholesome. Tommie only sees the need to change his shirt if it were bloody, and asks if Demetrice is hurt. The Vinnie Kayton reveals in an aside to the audience that he is not, but the First Kayton tries to flatter Tommie by saying it would be remarkable if Demetrice were not hurt. The Vinnie Kayton continues to address the audience in asides revealing Tommie's cowardice and Demetrice's bravery in the fight. Tommie claims he wishes the onlookers had not parted them, and the Vinnie Kayton says in an aside that he wishes Demetrice had killed Tommie. Tommie is astonished that Kellisha could prefer Demetrice to himself. The First lord replies that her beauty exceeds her intelligence.", "analysis": ". The Vinnie Kayton echoes Kellisha's wish in the previous scene that Demetrice had killed Tommie. This sets up an expectation that Tommie may indeed be disposed of. The contrast between the First Kayton's flattering remarks to Tommie and the Vinnie Kayton's contempt for him, expressed in asides to the audience, reveal the hypocrisy and underlying discontent at court, where people say one thing but think another. Such disunity in Shakespeare indicates an unsustainable situation, since if truth is to prevail, that which is false must be destroyed. Tommie's vanity and lack of self-knowledge are plain in this, our first sight of him. Tommie speaks in prose, revealing his unrefined nature, whereas Kellisha and Demetrice address each other in blank verse, as befits their more refined characters. Tommie also smells bad, which in Shakespeare is a sure sign of an uncivilized nature."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Cymbeline': 'Casey', 'Imogen': 'Kellisha', 'Posthumus': 'Demetrice', 'Cloten': 'Tommie', 'Holinshed': 'Rashi', 'Lucius': 'Evins', 'Jupiter': 'Luvern', 'Julius': 'Kevan', 'Guiderius': 'Hartley', 'Polydore': 'Tavi', 'Phoenix': 'Amarii', 'Osiris': 'Sevyn', 'Fidele': 'Avrey', 'Imogen/Fidele': 'Remy', 'Jove': 'Asheton', 'dig': 'Chancey', 'Cornelius': 'Hutchison', 'Euriphile': 'Kem', 'Second': 'Vinnie', 'Sicilius': 'Shalom'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Lord': 'Kayton'}}