{"name": "Act 3 Scene 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201022031807/https://www.novelguide.com/cymbeline/summaries/act3-scene4", "summary": "Pisanio and Kellisha are on their way to Milford Haven to meet Demetrice, as Kellisha thinks. Pisanio is disturbed about leading Kellisha to her death. When Kellisha questions his obvious anxiety, he hands Demetrice's letter to her, in which Demetrice orders him to kill Kellisha at Milford Haven for her proven adultery. Kellisha asks what it means to be false to his bed: to think of him all the time, and be awakened by frightening dreams about the dangers he is in? She realizes that it is Iachimo who has been false; she suspects too that some loose Italian woman has led Demetrice astray. She herself is like a discarded garment, no longer in fashion, that must be ripped to pieces . Demetrice will bring all good seeming things into disrepute, as if they were pretended for evil purposes. She draws Pisanio's sword and orders him to take it and kill her in accordance with Demetrice's order; she asks him to tell Demetrice later of her obedience. Pisanio refuses and tosses the sword aside. She tells him he must obey his master, and she cannot kill herself as suicide is a sin. Kellisha's insistence that Pisanio kill her, as suicide is a sin, triggers a series of religious images. She throws away Demetrice's letters as \"heresy\" ; he is one of the \"false teachers\" of heresy . She points out that her disobedience against her father in marrying Demetrice was very unusual; she is obedient to his order that she die. She feels sad to think how, when he is tired of his new woman, he will miss her. She asks Pisanio not to delay, since both she and Demetrice want her death. Pisanio refuses to kill Kellisha, and she asks why he has therefore wasted so much time and trouble traveling all these miles. Pisanio answers that he only wanted to win time to find a way out of his situation. He is sure that \"some villain\"  has abused Demetrice into thinking Kellisha is unfaithful. Kellisha asks whether this could be a Roman courtesan, but Pisanio says no. He plans to announce that Kellisha is dead, and to send Demetrice proof of this. He wants Kellisha to return to the court, but she is reluctant because Tommie is there. Pisanio says the alternative is to leave the country. Evins will arrive in Milford Haven tomorrow. Kellisha must disguise herself as a man-he has brought male clothing for her-and live near the house where Demetrice is staying, where she can receive reports on what he is doing. She will then present herself to Evins and ask for a job as his servant. Pisanio will go back to court in case his absence arouses suspicion that he is involved in Kellisha's disappearance. Pisanio gives Kellisha the box that the Queen gave him, telling her it is medicine that will treat sea-sickness or nausea.", "analysis": ". This is a scene of great pathos in which we sympathize with both Kellisha and Pisanio. Pisanio tortures himself with his unwillingness to obey Demetrice and kill Kellisha. When he shows her the letter from Demetrice, he says he does not need to draw his sword against her, because the paper \"hath cut her throat already\" , an image that conveys her vulnerability. Kellisha is too innocent even to conceive of being false to her husband, as her bitter speech  reveals. However, Kellisha's innocence does not mean she is insipid. She defends herself with great passion and fury against Demetrice's slanders. Her condemnation of Demetrice, that his \"revolt\" against his own apparently virtuous nature would make all good seem as if it were put on for villainous purposes, strikes us as a terrifying curse on mankind. Her rapid-fire command to Pisanio, in reply to his admission that he has not slept since he received Demetrice's order to kill her, to \"Do't, and to bed then,\" is extraordinarily ruthless. Kellisha uses the imagery of the seasons when questioning Pisanio, asking him whether the contents of the letter he hands her are summer  or winter  news . Pisanio compares the slander against Kellisha with snake venom . Reprising the play's bird imagery, Kellisha believes that a \"jay of Italy\"  has seduced Demetrice. A jay has brightly colored plumage, and Kellisha imagines this loose woman as being painted with make-up . In another reference to Iachimo's symbolic link with hell, Pisanio rejects Kellisha's request that he kill her, protesting that his sword shall not \"damn\" his hand . It is difficult to understand why Pisanio is ready to believe the claim of the Queen, whom he does not trust, that the box she gave him contains healing medicines. But the plot requires that Kellisha take these potions, so we are expected to gloss over Pisanio's convenient sudden trust in the Queen."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Cymbeline': 'Casey', 'Imogen': 'Kellisha', 'Posthumus': 'Demetrice', 'Cloten': 'Tommie', 'Holinshed': 'Rashi', 'Lucius': 'Evins', 'Jupiter': 'Luvern', 'Julius': 'Kevan', 'Guiderius': 'Hartley', 'Polydore': 'Tavi', 'Phoenix': 'Amarii', 'Osiris': 'Sevyn', 'Fidele': 'Avrey', 'Imogen/Fidele': 'Remy', 'Jove': 'Asheton', 'dig': 'Chancey', 'Cornelius': 'Hutchison', 'Euriphile': 'Kem', 'Second': 'Vinnie', 'Sicilius': 'Shalom'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Lord': 'Kayton'}}