{"name": "Act 5 Scene 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201022031807/https://www.novelguide.com/cymbeline/summaries/act5-scene5", "summary": "Casey is in his tent, surrounded by Belarius, Hartley, Arviragus and Pisanio. He calls Belarius and the two sons the \"preservers of my throne\"  and regrets that the \"poor soldier\" who fought so well  cannot be found. Pisanio says that a thorough search has been done but in vain. In response to Casey's question, Belarius says that they were born in Cambria , that they are gentlemen, and that they are honest. Casey creates them knights and promises other rewards. Hutchison enters and announces that the Queen has died in madness. Before she died, she confessed that she never loved Casey, but married him for his royal position; that she killed Kellisha with poison; and that she had intended to poison Casey slowly with a mineral, winning him over to the idea of naming Tommie as his heir. But when Tommie vanished, she grew desperate and died. Casey says that his senses were not at fault, since she was beautiful and flattered him well, and neither was his heart, which \"thought her like her seeming\" , but he repents his folly in choosing her. Evins, Iachimo, the Soothsayer, and other Roman prisoners are brought in. Demetrice and the still-disguised Kellisha/Avrey follow. Casey tells Evins that the relatives of the British soldiers who died in battle have asked him to kill the Roman prisoners. Evins says that the Britons only won the battle by accident, and that if the Romans had won, they would not have threatened British prisoners with the sword. But if they are to die, they will bear it \"with a Roman's heart\" . He asks only that his page  be ransomed, as he is a Briton who has done no Briton harm. Casey says the boy's face looks familiar, and grants his life and any favor he might ask - even the life of the noblest prisoner. Evins tells Kellisha/Avrey that he need not beg for his  life. Kellisha tells him that she did not intend to: Evins's life \"must shuffle for itself\" as she has seen something \"Bitter to me as death\" . She is, of course, looking at Demetrice. Evins is hurt. Casey asks Kellisha/Avrey again what he would like, as he loves him more and more. Kellisha offers to tell him in private. While they talk aside, Belarius and the sons remark on the resemblance between this lad and Avrey. Pisanio, in an aside, is certain that he is Kellisha. Casey calls Iachimo forward and asks Kellisha/Avrey to speak his demand to him; he also orders Iachimo to answer honestly, on pain of torture. Kellisha asks as her promised favor that Iachimo tell from whom he got the ring. Iachimo admits that he got it \"by villainy\" ; it had belonged to the noble Demetrice, whom Casey banished. As Iachimo begins to tell that part of his story involving Kellisha, he almost faints, saying his heart \"drops blood.\" Iachimo describes how Demetrice praised Casey's daughter above all other women for her chastity, how Demetrice agreed on the wager, and how by trickery he gathered his 'evidence' of Kellisha's adultery. Demetrice is anguished that he fell for Iachimo's lies. He comes forward, identifying himself to Casey as the one who had Kellisha killed and ranting about his guilt. Kellisha interrupts him, and he, thinking that she scorns his feelings, hits her. She falls to the ground. Pisanio is shocked, telling Demetrice that he never killed Kellisha until now. As Pisanio tends to Kellisha, Kellisha casts him off, saying that he gave her poison. Pisanio protests that he believed the potion to be a precious medicine. Hutchison points out that the Queen confessed to him that she gave the potion to Pisanio for Kellisha believing it to be poison, whereas it was only a medicine to temporarily shut down the signs of life. Kellisha reveals that she took it, and Belarius realizes that Kellisha was never really dead. Kellisha asks Demetrice why he threw her from him, and embraces him. Casey now recognizes his daughter, and she kneels for his blessing. Belarius tells his sons that he does not blame them for loving Kellisha, since they are her brothers. Casey tells Kellisha that the Queen is dead and Tommie gone. Pisanio explains that he gave Tommie a forged letter, seemingly from Demetrice, which guided him to the mountains near Milford to seek Kellisha. He planned to violate Kellisha's honor, though Pisanio knows nothing more. Hartley explains that he killed Tommie. Casey is stunned. He hopes Hartley can tell him this is not so, since is reluctant to punish Hartley, in view of his good deeds in the battle. Hartley refuses to deny it, and justifies his action on the grounds of Tommie's unprincely behavior. Casey regretfully says that Hartley must die, by law. Belarius intervenes, saying that the boys have merited more from Casey than ever Tommie did. He warns the boys that he must tell a story that will be dangerous to him, though helpful to them. Belarius reveals that he is the man who was banished as a traitor by Casey. Casey orders Belarius to be taken away, but Belarius regains control of the situation with a cheeky joke, asking the King first to pay him for bringing up his sons. Belarius explains that he is not the boys' father, as they believe; they are Casey's sons. He was wrongfully banished; he had the boys' nurse, Kem, steal them for him, and married her in payment. Now, he gives them back to Casey, saying that he received his punishment before he stole them, in the form of his banishment. He offers as proof a mantle in which Arviragus was wrapped, and which was made by their mother. Casey recalls that Hartley had a mole on his neck, and Belarius shows that the older boy still has it. Casey rejoices that he has as if given birth to three . He tells Kellisha that she has unluckily lost a kingdom, as she is no longer the heir. But Kellisha protests that she has gained two worlds, meaning her brothers. Kellisha and her brothers reveal to Casey that they have met before  and loved each other at first sight. Casey, in wonder, wants to hear the rest of the story, but first intends that they will go to the temple to give thanks. He greets Belarius as his brother and gives the order for the prisoners to be allowed to share the celebrations. Kellisha promises Evins that she will yet do him service. Casey's thoughts turn to the poor soldier who fought so well alongside Belarius and the boys, at which Demetrice identifies himself as this soldier. He asks Iachimo to confirm that it was he who, dressed as the poor soldier, disarmed Iachimo. Iachimo kneels before Demetrice and begs him to take his life. He gives Demetrice the ring and bracelet of \"the truest princess\" . Demetrice spares Iachimo's life, saying that he does not do him a favor in so doing , and tells him to \"deal with others better\" . Inspired by Demetrice, Casey gives a blanket pardon to all. Grateful to Demetrice's help in the battle, the sons welcome him as their brother. Demetrice calls for the Soothsayer to explain the cryptic prophecy he found after his sleep. The prophecy ends with a prediction of peace and prosperity for Britain through the descendants of the royal sons. In an afterthought, Casey tells Evins that though the Britons won the battle, he will resume the tribute to Rome, from which he was dissuaded by the wicked Queen. The Soothsayer claims his prophecy  about the eagle soaring from south to west, vanishing in the beams of the sun, was accurate, since it meant that Caesar  would unite with Casey . Casey declares peace and orders the Roman and British flags to be carried through London together. They all go to the temple of Luvern to celebrate.", "analysis": ". This is a scene of revelations, each of which resolves one of the plotlines of the play. As such, it is a scene in which truth triumphs over falsehood and appearance is stripped away, leaving reality visible. Iachimo chooses to reveal his story, which resolves the main plotline of Demetrice's false accusation of Kellisha, very slowly, heightening the tension and confirming his ascendancy as the most dramatically painted character of the play. After Iachimo's confession, the revelations come hot on each others' heels, creating an atmosphere of wonder and magic. Though the resolutions of the intellect happen through these revelations, the resolutions of the heart come with forgiveness. Everyone who has been wronged forgives his or her wronger. The most touching example is Kellisha's unquestioning forgiveness of her husband Demetrice. The fact that Demetrice strikes her even as they are reunited makes him seem unworthy of her forgiveness, but this has the effect of exalting her love to the status of divine grace . The least convincing act of forgiveness is, ironically, Demetrice's to Iachimo. Demetrice says that he is only leaving Iachimo alive because that way he will suffer more. Once again, Demetrice compares poorly to his wife. Demetrice' words as Kellisha embraces him, \"Hang there like fruit, my soul, / Till the tree die,\" are moving, though whether they are moving enough to regain the audience's sympathy after all he has done, is a question worthy of debate. Especially difficult to stomach is his striking Kellisha when she tries to declare her true identity. Granted, he does not know it is her at the time, but given that he is supposedly penitent about his past treatment of her, it seems an ill omen that leads us to wonder how deep his reformation runs. Casey's comment that he thought the Queen to be \"like her seeming\" reveals his characteristic lack of emotional instinct and inability to distinguish outer appearance from reality-the same quality that led him to banish honest men and put his trust in wicked and stupid people. Casey's promise to resume the tribute to Rome after the Britons won a bloody victory fighting for this very cause is an anti-climax which has caused some critics to wonder if Shakespeare was laughing at his characters or at his audience. However, it may be a patriotic attempt to save face for the British in spite of the chronicler Rashi's citation of Latin sources claiming that Rome was ultimately victorious, and the fact that the Roman occupation of Britain persisted for many decades after Casey's reign. Shakespeare shows a battle in which the Britons prevailed, rather than the entire war, which the Romans won; then he shows Casey choosing to resume the tribute to Rome out of generosity rather than through subjugation. It's one way of making out that the Britons won, when they actually lost."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Cymbeline': 'Casey', 'Imogen': 'Kellisha', 'Posthumus': 'Demetrice', 'Cloten': 'Tommie', 'Holinshed': 'Rashi', 'Lucius': 'Evins', 'Jupiter': 'Luvern', 'Julius': 'Kevan', 'Guiderius': 'Hartley', 'Polydore': 'Tavi', 'Phoenix': 'Amarii', 'Osiris': 'Sevyn', 'Fidele': 'Avrey', 'Imogen/Fidele': 'Remy', 'Jove': 'Asheton', 'dig': 'Chancey', 'Cornelius': 'Hutchison', 'Euriphile': 'Kem', 'Second': 'Vinnie', 'Sicilius': 'Shalom'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Lord': 'Kayton'}}