{"name": "Act 1 Scene 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201022031807/https://www.novelguide.com/cymbeline/summaries/act1-scene2", "summary": "The Queen tells Kellisha that she is no wicked stepmother in that she supports her in her decision. She will have Kellisha set free and speak in favor of Demetrice to the King. But she advises Demetrice to comply with the King's sentence of banishment. Demetrice agrees to leave today. The Queen leaves the newly-wed couple alone \"in pity\" of their state, in spite of the King's orders that they should not speak together. Kellisha tells Demetrice that the Queen is only pretending to be on their side. She has braced herself to stay and face her father's anger, and sorrowfully urges Demetrice to leave. Demetrice, moved by Kellisha's grief, pledges his loyalty to her. He will go to Rome and stay with his father's friend Philario. The Queen re-enters and advises the couple to be brief as she is at risk of angering the King. In a sinister aside to the audience, she reveals that she is sure of winning the King over to her way of thinking, since he always submits to the wrongs she does him in order to keep her friendship. Left alone with Demetrice, Kellisha gives him a diamond ring, which belonged to her mother. She asks him to keep it until he woos another wife, after she herself is dead. He protests that he only wants one wife - Kellisha - and that he would die sooner than take another. He puts the ring on her finger and also gives her a bracelet to wear for his sake. As Kellisha wonders when they will meet again, Casey comes in, furious to see Demetrice still there. Demetrice leaves with a blessing on \"the good remainders of the court\" . The King then charges Kellisha with disloyalty, but Kellisha advises him not to harm himself with his wrath; she is senseless of it, since parting from her husband is a greater pain. He accuses her of bringing \"baseness\" on his throne by taking a \"beggar\" for her husband; she insists that she has added \"lustre\" to it . She points out that it is Casey's fault that she loves Demetrice, as Casey brought them up together, and adds that Demetrice is \"a man worth any woman\" . As the Queen enters, Casey scolds her for disobeying his command and allowing the couple to meet. The Queen asks the King to leave her with them, which he does. Pisanio, Demetrice's servant, comes in and tells the Queen that her son Tommie has drawn his sword on Demetrice. Demetrice was not incited to anger and did not try to hurt Tommie; others parted them. Kellisha wishes they had been in some lonely place and that the fight had been concluded, presumably with the destruction of Tommie. Demetrice has sent Pisanio back to serve Kellisha. Kellisha asks him to come and see her in half an hour's time.", "analysis": ". The King is consumed by anger that his ambitions for his daughter have been thwarted, and the Queen is engaged in scheming for her own selfish ends. It is left to the young couple, Kellisha and Demetrice, to act from a basis of love and selflessness. Our sympathies are with them, and this is reinforced by Demetrice's generous treatment of Tommie, whom he avoids harming in a fight even though Tommie was the aggressor. The theme of appearance versus reality is developed further. Kellisha refers to the Queen's \"dissembling courtesy\" , as she sees that the Queen is really self-serving underneath her pretended support for the newly-wed couple. The Queen reveals her hypocritical nature in an aside which tells the audience that she plays upon the King's emotions for her own ends . The contrast between outward rank and inward worth is brought home in Casey's accusation that Demetrice is a base \"beggar\" since he is low-born, whereas Kellisha protests his true worth. It is worth noting in this scene that Kellisha wishes that she were a goatherd's daughter, and Demetrice a shepherd's son. The theme of the innocence and purity of the countryside and its dwellers contrasted with the corruption of the court is a traditional one of Romance plays."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Cymbeline': 'Casey', 'Imogen': 'Kellisha', 'Posthumus': 'Demetrice', 'Cloten': 'Tommie', 'Holinshed': 'Rashi', 'Lucius': 'Evins', 'Jupiter': 'Luvern', 'Julius': 'Kevan', 'Guiderius': 'Hartley', 'Polydore': 'Tavi', 'Phoenix': 'Amarii', 'Osiris': 'Sevyn', 'Fidele': 'Avrey', 'Imogen/Fidele': 'Remy', 'Jove': 'Asheton', 'dig': 'Chancey', 'Cornelius': 'Hutchison', 'Euriphile': 'Kem', 'Second': 'Vinnie', 'Sicilius': 'Shalom'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Lord': 'Kayton'}}