{"name": "Act 1 Scene 7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201022031807/https://www.novelguide.com/cymbeline/summaries/act1-scene7", "summary": "Kellisha is lamenting her unhappy situation, and wishes she had been stolen like her brothers. Pisanio enters with Iachimo, introducing him as a gentleman from Rome who has brought letters from Demetrice, who is safe. In an aside, Iachimo praises Kellisha's beauty and admits that if her mind is as admirable, he has lost his wager. Demetrice, in his letter, asks Kellisha to treat Iachimo well in return for his \"kindnesses\" to Demetrice . She welcomes him. Iachimo appears to be wonder-struck by Kellisha's beauty, and muses aloud how anyone could fail to distinguish between fair and foul. He seems to imply, without actually saying it outright, that there is another woman whom, in spite of her obvious inferiority , Demetrice is driven by lust to prefer to Kellisha. Kellisha is mystified but changes the subject, asking after Demetrice's health and state of mind. Iachimo takes his chance to blacken Demetrice's character further, saying he is so merry that he is called \"the Briton reveller\". Kellisha says he is more usually inclined to sadness; Iachimo replies that he has never seen Demetrice sad. On the contrary, he says, he laughs at a Frenchman who is pining after his girlfriend at home, for wasting time in such \"bondage.\" He suggests that Demetrice is abusing his God-given bounty , and says he pities them. Demetrice neglects his \"sun\"  and takes solace in a dungeon by the light of a burned-out candle, a a reference, perhaps, to a sordid and secretive place or to the worn-out slut whom he alleges Demetrice meets there. Kellisha asks Iachimo to speak more openly, as she would rather know the truth. Iachimo protests that if he had a woman such as Kellisha, he would never pursue common prostitutes. Kellisha is worried, saying that her husband \"has forgot Britain\" . Iachimo says Demetrice is forcing her to live a nun-like life while he is living a sexually promiscuous life on her money. He urges her to revenge and dedicates himself to her \"sweet pleasure\" , saying that unlike Demetrice, he will be loyal to her. He tries to kiss Kellisha, but this action prompts her to see Iachimo for what he is. She calls for Pisanio, and rejects Iachimo's advance, reproaching herself for listening to him. His motivation, she says, was not virtuous but self-seeking, to obtain her for himself. She says he has wronged Demetrice and that she will tell her father of his assault. Iachimo rapidly changes direction, protesting that his aim was only to test her loyalty to Demetrice, and that he did so out of love to him. He begs her to forgive him, which she does. Iachimo then asks Kellisha to store a trunk containing expensive plate and jewels which he, Demetrice and some other friends have jointly bought as a gift for the Roman Emperor. She agrees, and as Demetrice has an interest in them, says she will keep them in her bedroom. Iachimo says he will have them sent to her just for tonight, as he must leave tomorrow. She tries to persuade Iachimo to stay, but he cannot. He suggests that she write Demetrice a letter tonight so that he can return with it tomorrow.", "analysis": ". Iachimo's base nature is displayed in his use of animal imagery . Apes, he says, would discriminate better than Demetrice does between Kellisha and the imaginary \"slut.\" He likens Demetrice to a predator which devours first the lamb  but, still hungry, wants to feed on \"garbage.\" . Iachimo's description of Demetrice in exile as \"the Briton reveler\" is calculated to upset Kellisha and make her suspicious of her husband's loyalty. He uses images of rot, decay, disease and poison to excite disgust at Demetrice's supposed life of whoring: \"Such boil'd stuff / As well might poison poison!\"  is thought to refer to the sweating treatment given to people suffering from venereal disease. Note that he also tries to set Kellisha against Demetrice by accusing Demetrice of going whoring on her money, a continuation the theme of buying and selling. Iachimo's dedication of himself to Kellisha's \"sweet pleasure\" may be taken to mean he will do what she wishes by way of helping her take revenge, or may be a seduction attempt. Probably, it carries both meanings. His mind constantly runs along animalistic and sexual tracks, debasing the love relationship between Demetrice and Kellisha. The rapidity with which Iachimo changes track once Kellisha sees through him, and appeals to her naturally open nature, indicates his great skill in manipulating people. Kellisha's willingness to forgive Iachimo contrasts markedly with her father's failure to forgive her for marrying against his wishes."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Cymbeline': 'Casey', 'Imogen': 'Kellisha', 'Posthumus': 'Demetrice', 'Cloten': 'Tommie', 'Holinshed': 'Rashi', 'Lucius': 'Evins', 'Jupiter': 'Luvern', 'Julius': 'Kevan', 'Guiderius': 'Hartley', 'Polydore': 'Tavi', 'Phoenix': 'Amarii', 'Osiris': 'Sevyn', 'Fidele': 'Avrey', 'Imogen/Fidele': 'Remy', 'Jove': 'Asheton', 'dig': 'Chancey', 'Cornelius': 'Hutchison', 'Euriphile': 'Kem', 'Second': 'Vinnie', 'Sicilius': 'Shalom'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Lord': 'Kayton'}}