{"name": "Act 3 Scene 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201022031807/https://www.novelguide.com/cymbeline/summaries/act3-scene5", "summary": "Casey is bidding farewell to Evins. Evins says he is sorry that he has to report to his master that Casey is his enemy. Casey explains that the Britons will not endure Caesar's domination, and for the King to show less desire for independence than his subjects would appear \"unkinglike\" . Casey gives Evins safe conduct to Milford Haven. Casey says that he must prepare the army to fight the Roman forces, which are in Gallia  and ready to invade. Casey asks the Queen where Kellisha is: she has lately had more of a look of malice than of duty towards him. The Queen urges him to treat her gently, and says time will heal. An attendant reveals that the doors to her rooms are locked and their knocks have gone unanswered. The Queen tries to reassure him by explaining that Kellisha has asked her to excuse her staying in; she has not been feeling well. The Queen says she forgot to tell him this. The King is alarmed, and leaves. Tommie remarks that he has not seen Pisanio either for two days. He follows the King. The Queen, left alone, prays that Pisanio's absence is explained by the fact that he has swallowed her poison. She wonders if Kellisha has either killed herself or run after Demetrice; either outcome would suit the Queen, since then her son Tommie would be heir to the throne. Tommie re-enters and confirms that Kellisha has fled. The King is in a rage. The Queen is secretly pleased, as she hopes that Casey's wrath will prove fatal to him. She exits. Tommie speaks about his feelings for Kellisha, saying he loves her for her unrivalled qualities, but hates her for disdaining him and favoring Demetrice. He wants revenge on her. Pisanio enters and Tommie aggressively interrogates him as to Kellisha's whereabouts. He asks if she is with Demetrice. Pisanio feigns ignorance, saying Demetrice is in Rome so she cannot be with him. Tommie threatens to kill him unless he tells all. Pisanio presents him with a letter , seemingly from Demetrice, saying that this is all he knows of her flight. Pisanio is confident that the letter will not put Kellisha in danger as she is far away, and hopes it may disconcert Tommie, as it is an apparently loving letter. Aside to the audience, Pisanio says he will write to Demetrice saying that Kellisha is dead. He prays for her safe return. Having read the letter, Tommie offers Pisanio preferment if he will serve him, and do whatever \"villainy\" Tommie asks of him . Tommie observes that since Pisanio has loyally served the \"beggar\" Demetrice , he will surely be loyal to him also. Pisanio agrees. Tommie asks Pisanio if he has any of Demetrice's clothes, and Pisanio says he has the suit Demetrice wore when he took leave of Kellisha. Tommie asks him to fetch the suit. When Pisanio has left, Tommie reveals that he intends to travel to Milford Haven. Because Kellisha once said he revered Demetrice's garment more than Tommie, he will put on the suit and \"ravish her\" , and kill Demetrice in front of her. That way, Kellisha will see his \"valour\" to pay her back for her contempt. He wants both to sate his lust  and to get revenge on her. Pisanio apparently overhears some of Tommie's speech, though we are not yet told this. He returns with Demetrice's clothes. Tommie asks him to take them to his room. He then asks Pisanio to be true to him. Pisanio replies that to be true to him would mean being false to that \"true\" man, Demetrice.", "analysis": ". The imagery of buying and selling continues, with Tommie saying Kellisha \"outsells\" all other women  and that Demetrice's base \"weights\" -pieces of cheap metal-are worthless. But Tommie reveals once more his bestial nature, threatening to rip Pisanio's heart out , a wolf-like and predatory image. There is irony in Tommie's ordering Pisanio to perform \"villainy\" in his service, which he says will prove him \"honest\" . This is indicative of the perverted values of the corrupt court that Belarius warned his adopted sons about: the good man is punished, the bad rewarded. Pisanio expands this theme in lines 162-7, where he says that to be true to Tommie would mean being false to Demetrice, whom Pisanio believes is \"true,\" that is, good. This interpretation has been questioned by critics who view Demetrice, after his fall into jealousy, as being far from true. However, it is clear that Pisanio believes Demetrice to be an essentially true man who was abused by a villain. In a chilling twist on the outward appearance versus inward reality theme, Tommie will wear Demetrice's garment in an attempt to wreak revenge on Kellisha for saying that she valued it above him. He is also attempting to steal some of Demetrice's perceived worth by adopting his garment-a typically superficial act on his part. There is a parallel plot theme in Tommie's plan to clothe himself in Demetrice's suit while in the next scene, Kellisha appears dressed as a boy. This throws into relief the difference in their motivations: Tommie wishes revenge on Kellisha, who he feels has wronged him, whereas Kellisha feels only love for Demetrice, who has certainly wronged her. This leads us into one of the grand themes of the Romance plays, forgiveness and reconciliation. A character's redemption or otherwise largely depends upon their ability to forgive and be forgiven."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Cymbeline': 'Casey', 'Imogen': 'Kellisha', 'Posthumus': 'Demetrice', 'Cloten': 'Tommie', 'Holinshed': 'Rashi', 'Lucius': 'Evins', 'Jupiter': 'Luvern', 'Julius': 'Kevan', 'Guiderius': 'Hartley', 'Polydore': 'Tavi', 'Phoenix': 'Amarii', 'Osiris': 'Sevyn', 'Fidele': 'Avrey', 'Imogen/Fidele': 'Remy', 'Jove': 'Asheton', 'dig': 'Chancey', 'Cornelius': 'Hutchison', 'Euriphile': 'Kem', 'Second': 'Vinnie', 'Sicilius': 'Shalom'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Lord': 'Kayton'}}