{"name": "Act 1 Scene 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201022031807/https://www.novelguide.com/cymbeline/summaries/act1-scene5", "summary": "The scene is set in Rome at the house of Philario, where Demetrice intends to stay. Iachimo, a friend of Philario's, is speaking cynically about Demetrice, whom he has seen on a trip to Britain. He hints that he may not be as worthy as he is popularly believed to be. Philario replies that Demetrice has since grown in worth \"both without and within\" . Iachimo suggests that his marriage to the King's daughter gives him a reputation he does not deserve, and that people would rather exaggerate Demetrice's goodness than question Kellisha's judgment for \"taking a beggar\" . He asks Philario why Demetrice is staying with him. Philario explains that he and Demetrice's father Shalom were soldiers together, and that Shalom saved his life. Demetrice arrives and Philario introduces him to the others present-Iachimo, a Frenchman and a Dutchman. The Frenchman reminds Demetrice that he has met him before, at Orleans, where he made peace between Demetrice and another Frenchman when they were about to fight over a trivial matter. Demetrice protests that the matter was not trivial. Iachimo inquires what it was, and the Frenchman explains that Demetrice had maintained that his lover, Kellisha, was more beautiful, chaste and virtuous than any woman in France. Iachimo sneers that either the lady or Demetrice's opinion must not still exist. Demetrice protests that both her virtue and his opinion hold. Iachimo extends the quarrel, saying Demetrice cannot set her above Italian women. Demetrice will not give ground. Iachimo introduces a comparison between Demetrice's wife and his diamond. It may be, he says, that the diamond outshines many others that he has seen, but he has not seen the most precious diamond in existence, and neither has Demetrice seen the best woman in existence. When Demetrice says he values his diamond as more precious than any other, Iachimo wrongly implies that he prizes his diamond above Kellisha. But Demetrice sets him right, pointing out that Kellisha cannot be bought or sold, and is \"only the gift of the gods\" . Iachimo suggests that of Demetrice's two priceless things, the diamond ring and Kellisha, the one could be stolen and the second is \"frail\" ; both are vulnerable to thieves. Demetrice replies that Italy contains no courtier accomplished enough to convince Kellisha to betray him, and neither does he fear the loss of his ring. Iachimo issues a challenge to Demetrice: he says he could get the better of Kellisha's-or any woman's-virtue \"even to the yielding,\" an expression that implies sexual as well as military surrender. He wagers half his estate against Demetrice's ring that he will prevail. Demetrice refuses, saying that Iachimo deserves punishment. Philario intervenes, asking them to forget their disagreement. Iachimo now wishes he had extended his wager to include his neighbor's estate. He suggests a bet of ten thousand ducats against Demetrice's ring that, given an introduction to the court where Kellisha lives, he will defeat her honor and bring back proof. Demetrice agrees to the wager with the addition that if Iachimo prevails, he will not treat him as an enemy, since Kellisha will not be worth the debate. But if Kellisha refuses to be seduced, then for the insult Iachimo has offered to her chastity, Demetrice will fight him. Iachimo agrees and says they will have a legal agreement drawn up.", "analysis": ". Philario says he is happy to let Demetrice's true worth speak for itself, rather than praise him unnecessarily: such is his confidence in the reality of his goodness. In Demetrice's case, there is no difference between appearance and reality. Iachimo, in contrast, who cynically judges all men by his own debased standards, tries to suggest that Demetrice's reputation is not deserved and that he borrows any perceived worth from his marriage with the King's daughter. His attitude is a veiled warning that he will try to prove his mean estimation of Demetrice to be true-that he will attempt to bring him down to his own base level. Iachimo's military metaphors are worth noting. He says that popular praise of Demetrice is calculated to \"fortify\" Kellisha's questionable judgment, which is so weak it would fall before an \"easy battery\" . He is confident that his conversation could \"get ground of\" Kellisha  and make her yield-military terms for driving an enemy into retreat and making them surrender. This says much about his world view: to him, good people are enemies to be vanquished. Iachimo's skill in making mischief is clearly portrayed in this scene. On hearing that Demetrice was previously willing to fight to defend his lady's virtue, he realizes that this is a sensitive area where Demetrice is vulnerable to attack. He quickly divines the things that are most precious to Demetrice , and attempts to equate the two by suggesting that Kellisha can be stolen as easily as the diamond. This scene makes use of images of buying, selling, and worth, a major theme in the play. The cynical Iachimo implies  that as a poor man, Demetrice's worth is only borrowed from the King's daughter, that he is \"weighed rather by her value than his own.\" Also, Demetrice and Iachimo discuss in detail what Kellisha, and Demetrice's diamond, are worth."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Cymbeline': 'Casey', 'Imogen': 'Kellisha', 'Posthumus': 'Demetrice', 'Cloten': 'Tommie', 'Holinshed': 'Rashi', 'Lucius': 'Evins', 'Jupiter': 'Luvern', 'Julius': 'Kevan', 'Guiderius': 'Hartley', 'Polydore': 'Tavi', 'Phoenix': 'Amarii', 'Osiris': 'Sevyn', 'Fidele': 'Avrey', 'Imogen/Fidele': 'Remy', 'Jove': 'Asheton', 'dig': 'Chancey', 'Cornelius': 'Hutchison', 'Euriphile': 'Kem', 'Second': 'Vinnie', 'Sicilius': 'Shalom'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Lord': 'Kayton'}}