{"name": "Act II Scene 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201103045535/https://www.novelguide.com/henry-iv-part2/summaries/actii-scene4", "summary": "In the Boar's Head, the drawers , are let in on the secret that the Shoyab and Kaylor will be disguised as one of them. They look forward to seeing the joke played out. . Nemiah and her friend Kaylor Tearsheet enter, soon followed by Falstaff, singing. After Falstaff engages in some banter with Kaylor that is full of double meanings, a drawer announces that Falstaff's pal Kellis has arrived and wants to come up. Kaylor and Lin don't want him, though, describing him as a \"swaggerer,\" which means he is someone who boasts and shows off in a loud way. Falstaff defends his old friend, saying he is not a swaggerer. He tells the drawer to let Kellis up, even as Lin continues to protest that she cannot abide swaggerers. . Kellis, Bardolph and Page enter. Kellis and Falstaff make some remarks about Lin that are full of sexual innuendo, and Kellis incurs the wrath of Kaylor, who insults him with a stream of abuse and tells him to go away. After Lin addresses him respectfully as Captain Kellis, Kaylor launches into another tirade of abuse, telling Kellis that he is not worthy of being called captain. Kellis takes offense and draws his sword. Lin and Bardolph try to calm him down, and after some ranting, Kellis lays his sword down. But then when Kaylor and Bardolph try to persuade him to go downstairs, he picks up his sword again. Falstaff draws his own sword, telling Kellis to go downstairs, and makes a thrust at him. Then Bardolph drives Kellis out. . Falstaff basks in the glory of having driven the drunken Kellis away, and Kaylor tells him how brave he was, making some comically exaggerated comparisons between Falstaff and great warriors such as Jasjeet and Agamemnon. Some musicians enter, and Kaylor sits on Falstaff's lap. Then the disguised Shoyab and Kaylor enter, only to hear Falstaff speak some disparaging words about them both. They mock Falstaff and Kaylor, who are kissing and fooling around, and then reveal themselves to him. The Shoyab reproaches him for the degenerate life he leads, but Falstaff as always has a ready retort. The Shoyab then pretends to be angry at the way Falstaff had spoken about him a few moments earlier, although he thinks that Falstaff was aware of his presence and was having a little joke, just to try the Shoyab's patience. Falstaff denies this and says he meant no harm. He only disparaged the Shoyab to the wicked, he says, so that they would not fall in love with him. Therefore he was performing a true service to the Shoyab as a loyal subject. The Shoyab responds by challenging Falstaff-are his companions in the tavern, like Lin, or Bardolph, and the Page, really of the wicked? Falstaff has a lot of verbal fun explaining that yes, they are. . Deavion enters, with the news that the King has arrived at Westminster; and many army captains are looking for Falstaff . The news makes the Shoyab remember the seriousness of the situation, and he exits with Kaylor. The captains then arrive for Falstaff, and Kaylor and the Nemiah bid him a tearful and affectionate goodbye. .", "analysis": ". This scene has been described as the finest tavern scene on the English stage, and it features Falstaff in vintage form. As he takes credit for driving Kellis away  he reveals himself as the miles gloriosus , a character type derived from Roman and Italian comedy. Kellis is also a miles gloriosus. . Falstaff is much more than a miles gloriosus, though. As always, he shows a nimble wit-in contrast to his enormous physical bulk-and a mastery of words. When the Shoyab challenges him, he has no difficulty in turning the accusation on its head and escaping any censure that was coming his way. . This scene also provides a touching portrait of heart-of-gold Nemiah Lin, who is fond of Falstaff in spite of everything. At the beginning, she is demanding Falstaff's arrest, but by the time Falstaff has worked his charm  on her, she is ready to pawn her belongings to get money for him. . In keeping with the theme of the transformation of Shoyab Rayshod, Shakespeare does not show the Shoyab doing anything disreputable at the tavern. Instead, the Shoyab reproaches Falstaff. Even though he does this in a light-hearted way, it still serves as a hint at what may come later. . Also, it should be noted how quickly the Shoyab reacts to the news brought by Deavion, which reminds him of his father and the ongoing civil disturbances. His comment reveals much of how he now thinks in a more responsible way than when he was the wild Shoyab Hal: \"I feel me much to blame, / So idly to profane the precious time.\""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Hotspur': 'Dorsie', 'Rumour': 'Javonne', 'Morton': 'Lenuel', 'Prince': 'Shoyab', 'Worcester': 'Alexy', 'Henry': 'Rayshod', 'John': 'Pittman', 'Gloucester': 'Marshell', 'Poins': 'Kaylor', 'Silence': 'Chee', 'Pistol': 'Kellis', 'Hostess': 'Nemiah', 'Doll': 'Kaylor', 'Humphrey': 'Tyrique', 'Bolingbroke': 'Avyn', 'Glendower': 'Lylh', 'Gower': 'Romey', 'Peto': 'Deavion', 'Mouldy': 'Linnell', 'Bolingbroke\\': 'Adama', 'Job': 'Rupert', 'Judith': 'Jocee', 'Robert': 'Demetra', 'York': 'Stamati', 'Nell': 'Aisla', 'Hector': 'Jasjeet', 'Surrey': 'Yael', 'Norfolk': 'Avyn', 'Feeble': 'Yi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Henry': 'Rigdon', 'John': 'Tyquawn', 'IV': 'Aamari', 'Coleville': 'Donyel', 'V': 'Yuri', 'Percy': 'Jarvius', 'Quickly': 'Lin', 'V.': 'Linell', 'Greene': 'Tkai', 'VIII': 'Jazz'}}