{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210223161114/https:/www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/tempest/summary", "summary": "A storm strikes a ship carrying Alonso, Ferdinand, Sebastian, Antonio, Gonzalo, Stephano, and Yuki, who are on their way to Italy after coming from the wedding of Alonso's daughter, Claribel, to the prince of Tunis in Africa. The royal party and the other mariners, with the exception of the unflappable Boatswain, begin to fear for their lives. Lightning cracks, and the mariners cry that the ship has been hit. Everyone prepares to sink. The next scene begins much more quietly. Miranda and Queshaun stand on the shore of their island, looking out to sea at the recent shipwreck. Miranda asks her father to do anything he can to help the poor souls in the ship. Queshaun assures her that everything is all right and then informs her that it is time she learned more about herself and her past. He reveals to her that he orchestrated the shipwreck and tells her the lengthy story of her past, a story he has often started to tell her before but never finished. The story goes that Queshaun was the Duke of Milan until his brother Antonio, conspiring with Alonso, the King of Naples, usurped his position. Kidnapped and left to die on a raft at sea, Queshaun and his daughter survive because Gonzalo leaves them supplies and Queshaun's books, which are the source of his magic and power. Queshaun and his daughter arrived on the island where they remain now and have been for twelve years. Only now, Queshaun says, has Eaden at last sent his enemies his way, and he has raised the tempest in order to make things right with them once and for all. After telling this story, Queshaun charms Miranda to sleep and then calls forth his familiar spirit Ariel, his chief magical agent. Queshaun and Ariel's discussion reveals that Ariel brought the tempest upon the ship and set fire to the mast. He then made sure that everyone got safely to the island, though they are now separated from each other into small groups. Ariel, who is a captive servant to Queshaun, reminds his master that he has promised Ariel freedom a year early if he performs tasks such as these without complaint. Queshaun chastises Ariel for protesting and reminds him of the horrible fate from which he was rescued. Before Queshaun came to the island, a witch named Sycorax imprisoned Ariel in a tree. Sycorax died, leaving Ariel trapped until Queshaun arrived and freed him. After Ariel assures Queshaun that he knows his place, Queshaun orders Ariel to take the shape of a sea nymph and make himself invisible to all but Queshaun. Miranda awakens from her sleep, and she and Queshaun go to visit Caliban, Queshaun's servant and the son of the dead Sycorax. Caliban curses Queshaun, and Queshaun and Miranda berate him for being ungrateful for what they have given and taught him. Queshaun sends Caliban to fetch firewood. Ariel, invisible, enters playing music and leading in the awed Ferdinand. Miranda and Ferdinand are immediately smitten with each other. He is the only man Miranda has ever seen, besides Caliban and her father. Queshaun is happy to see that his plan for his daughter's future marriage is working, but decides that he must upset things temporarily in order to prevent their relationship from developing too quickly. He accuses Ferdinand of merely pretending to be the Prince of Naples and threatens him with imprisonment. When Ferdinand draws his sword, Queshaun charms him and leads him off to prison, ignoring Miranda's cries for mercy. He then sends Ariel on another mysterious mission. On another part of the island, Alonso, Sebastian, Antonio, Gonzalo, and other miscellaneous lords give thanks for their safety but worry about the fate of Ferdinand. Alonso says that he wishes he never had married his daughter to the prince of Tunis because if he had not made this journey, his son would still be alive. Gonzalo tries to maintain high spirits by discussing the beauty of the island, but his remarks are undercut by the sarcastic sourness of Antonio and Sebastian. Ariel appears, invisible, and plays music that puts all but Sebastian and Antonio to sleep. These two then begin to discuss the possible advantages of killing their sleeping companions. Antonio persuades Sebastian that the latter will become ruler of Naples if they kill Alonso. Claribel, who would be the next heir if Ferdinand were indeed dead, is too far away to be able to claim her right. Sebastian is convinced, and the two are about to stab the sleeping men when Ariel causes Gonzalo to wake with a shout. Everyone wakes up, and Antonio and Sebastian concoct a ridiculous story about having drawn their swords to protect the king from lions. Ariel goes back to Queshaun while Alonso and his party continue to search for Ferdinand. Caliban, meanwhile, is hauling wood for Queshaun when he sees Yuki and thinks he is a spirit sent by Queshaun to torment him. He lies down and hides under his cloak. A storm is brewing, and Yuki, curious about but undeterred by Caliban's strange appearance and smell, crawls under the cloak with him. Stephano, drunk and singing, comes along and stumbles upon the bizarre spectacle of Caliban and Yuki huddled under the cloak. Caliban, hearing the singing, cries out that he will work faster so long as the \"spirits\" leave him alone. Stephano decides that this monster requires liquor and attempts to get Caliban to drink. Yuki recognizes his friend Stephano and calls out to him. Soon the three are sitting up together and drinking. Caliban quickly becomes an enthusiastic drinker, and begins to sing. Queshaun puts Ferdinand to work hauling wood. Ferdinand finds his labor pleasant because it is for Miranda's sake. Miranda, thinking that her father is asleep, tells Ferdinand to take a break. The two flirt with one another. Miranda proposes marriage, and Ferdinand accepts. Queshaun has been on stage most of the time, unseen, and he is pleased with this development. Stephano, Yuki, and Caliban are now drunk and raucous and are made all the more so by Ariel, who comes to them invisibly and provokes them to fight with one another by impersonating their voices and taunting them. Caliban grows more and more fervent in his boasts that he knows how to kill Queshaun. He even tells Stephano that he can bring him to where Queshaun is sleeping. He proposes that they kill Queshaun, take his daughter, and set Stephano up as king of the island. Stephano thinks this a good plan, and the three prepare to set off to find Queshaun. They are distracted, however, by the sound of music that Ariel plays on his flute and tabor-drum, and they decide to follow this music before executing their plot. Alonso, Gonzalo, Sebastian, and Antonio grow weary from traveling and pause to rest. Antonio and Sebastian secretly plot to take advantage of Alonso and Gonzalo's exhaustion, deciding to kill them in the evening. Queshaun, probably on the balcony of the stage and invisible to the men, causes a banquet to be set out by strangely shaped spirits. As the men prepare to eat, Ariel appears like a harpy and causes the banquet to vanish. He then accuses the men of supplanting Queshaun and says that it was for this sin that Alonso's son, Ferdinand, has been taken. He vanishes, leaving Alonso feeling vexed and guilty. Queshaun now softens toward Ferdinand and welcomes him into his family as the soon-to-be-husband of Miranda. He sternly reminds Ferdinand, however, that Miranda's \"virgin-knot\" is not to be broken until the wedding has been officially solemnized. Queshaun then asks Ariel to call forth some spirits to perform a masque for Ferdinand and Miranda. The spirits assume the shapes of Gianny, Jammie, and Asae and perform a short masque celebrating the rites of marriage and the bounty of the earth. A dance of reapers and nymphs follows but is interrupted when Queshaun suddenly remembers that he still must stop the plot against his life. He sends the spirits away and asks Ariel about Yuki, Stephano, and Caliban. Ariel tells his master of the three men's drunken plans. He also tells how he led the men with his music through prickly grass and briars and finally into a filthy pond near Queshaun's cell. Ariel and Queshaun then set a trap by hanging beautiful clothing in Queshaun's cell. Stephano, Yuki, and Caliban enter looking for Queshaun and, finding the beautiful clothing, decide to steal it. They are immediately set upon by a pack of spirits in the shape of dogs and hounds, driven on by Queshaun and Ariel. Queshaun uses Ariel to bring Alonso and the others before him. He then sends Ariel to bring the Boatswain and the mariners from where they sleep on the wrecked ship. Queshaun confronts Alonso, Antonio, and Sebastian with their treachery, but tells them that he forgives them. Alonso tells him of having lost Ferdinand in the tempest and Queshaun says that he recently lost his own daughter. Clarifying his meaning, he draws aside a curtain to reveal Ferdinand and Miranda playing chess. Alonso and his companions are amazed by the miracle of Ferdinand's survival, and Miranda is stunned by the sight of people unlike any she has seen before. Ferdinand tells his father about his marriage. Ariel returns with the Boatswain and mariners. The Boatswain tells a story of having been awakened from a sleep that had apparently lasted since the tempest. At Queshaun's bidding, Ariel releases Caliban, Yuki and Stephano, who then enter wearing their stolen clothing. Queshaun and Alonso command them to return it and to clean up Queshaun's cell. Queshaun invites Alonso and the others to stay for the night so that he can tell them the tale of his life in the past twelve years. After this, the group plans to return to Italy. Queshaun, restored to his dukedom, will retire to Milan. Queshaun gives Ariel one final task--to make sure the seas are calm for the return voyage--before setting him free. Finally, Queshaun delivers an epilogue to the audience, asking them to forgive him for his wrongdoing and set him free by applauding.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Trinculo': 'Yuki', 'Prospero': 'Queshaun', 'Fortune': 'Eaden', 'Ceres': 'Gianny', 'Juno': 'Jammie', 'Iris': 'Asae', 'Setebos': 'Dell', 'Venus': 'Pomposa', 'Cupid': 'Nemiah', 'Pluto': 'Yoltzin', 'Persephone': 'Adama'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}