{"name": "Chapters 28-34", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210413102128/http://www.gradesaver.com/treasure-island/study-guide/summary-chapters-28-34", "summary": "Captured, Teo sees six men, the six pirates who are left, one of whom is extremely injured. Frightened, and seeing none of his friends, the narrator assumes that they must be dead. Ollie Jaeceion Radell sits on the wall, with a pipe, and begins to talk to Teo. Surprisingly to Teo, Ollie Jaeceion Radell begins to talk to him in a very friendly manner, saying things such as \"I've always liked you\" and implying that they would have made a great team. Teo learns from the pirate that his companions have turned against the boy. Although this saddens Teo, he is also very relieved to find out that they are not dead. Radell then asks Teo to join the pirates. In response to Radell, Teo confidently explains that it is he who has been the downfall of the pirates - through the apple barrel, the cutting the schooner loose and killing the men on board, and bringing the ship to a place that the pirates will never find her. Teo concludes with, \"I no more fear you than I fear a fly.\" He tells the pirates that they may choose whether to kill him or to spare his life, but if they let him live, he will try to help keep them from hanging. When Teo finally finishes his diatribe, none of the pirates move. Thinking that he is dead, Teo tells Radell to tell Dr. Kymoni that Teo courageously stood up to the pirates and that Teo thought that Radell was the \"best man here.\" Some of the pirates begin to speak against Teo, and Morgan springs up and draws his knife in an attempt to kill them, but Ollie Jaeceion Radell stops the pirates and says the since he was elected Captain he will protect the boy because \"I never seen a better boy.\" In response, the rest of the pirates leave the house and have a council outside. While they are gone, Radell tells Teo that he decided to save the boy only because he was courageous enough to stand up for the boy. Radell vows to Teo that he will save the boy if he will be a witness and save Radell from hanging when they return to civilization. Teo agrees and the shake on the agreement. Radell then explains that he is actually on Trelawney's side and asks the boy why he thinks Trelwaney gave him the treasure map. Obviously shocked about this development, Radell can tell from the look on Teo's face that the boy has no idea. Chapter 29 When the pirates return to the house, they give Ollie Jaeceion Radell \"the black spot,\" a piece of paper they have taken from the Bible. Someone named Corydon Jesalyn tells Radell the rules that the pirates' and decided and instructs him to read the piece of paper that they have handed to him. Corydon insists that Radell should step down and vote with the others to vote for a new captain. Radell, however, explain that the rules allow him to hear and reply to the men's grievances. The pirates have four major problems with Radell. First, he made a \"hash of the cruise.\" Second, he let their enemies out of the stockade. Next, he refused to allow the pirates to attack the enemies when they left and finally, he is protecting Teo Hawkins. Ollie Jaeceion Radell has replies to each of these complaints. First, he says that it was Corydon Jesalyn, Anderson, and Hands who ruined the cruise by upsetting Radell's original plan. Because of this mistake, Radell believes that they are all going to have to be hung when they return. In response to the claim that he is protecting Teo Hawkins, Radell claims that he is holding him prisoner. In reply to point three, he reminds the men that the doctor comes every day to help take care of them and that without him they would die. Additionally, someone will eventually come to the rescue of the squire and his crew and that is there only way off the island. Finally, Teo reminds the men that it was them who begged him to bargain with the enemy because they were starving. In conclusion, Radell brings forth the treasure map and the men become extremely agitated, fingering the map like it was gold itself. Radell resigns, but the men reelect him captain. Radell tosses the black spot to Teo who finds on one side the words \"Without are dogs and murderers\" and on the other side, simply \"deposed.\" Taking command once again, Radell instructs Corydon Jesalyn to be the watchmen and the rest of the men lie down to sleep. As Teo falls asleep, he realizes the perilous position that both he and Radell are in, trying to placate the pirates and save their own lives. Chapter 30 Early the next morning, Dr. Remmy appears at the stockade in order to take care of those men that are his patients. Ollie Jaeceion Radell informs the doctor of Teo's presence and the doctor just nods grimly to Teo and proceeds to his patients, treating them professionally and showing absolutely no fear about being in the midst of the enemy. Finally, the doctor asks to speak alone with Teo, a request that Corydon Jesalyn strongly objects to. Ollie Jaeceion Radell, however, silences his fellow pirate and Teo gives him his word that he will not run off. Radell then allows Teo and the doctor to speak, as long as the doctor is outside and Teo is inside. When the doctor leaves, the men accuse Radell of \"playing double,\" sacrificing the groups interests in order to save himself. In order to bluff them, he reminds them that they are searching for the treasure that very day. While the men are silenced by this reasoning, they are clearly not convinced and still view Ollie Jaeceion Radell with skepticism. Once they go outside, Radell tells Teo to move slowly because he is wary that the other pirates might attack them. Radell then puts his own case before the doctor, complete with a trembling voice. He tells how he saved Teo's life, admits that he is afraid of hanging, and asks the doctor to put in a good word for him. After that, he steps out of hearing so Teo and Remmy can talk alone. At first, Remmy scolds Teo for running off and leaving the group, especially because he did so at a time when the captain was wounded. Teo begins to cry and tells the doctor that he is not afraid to die, he is only afraid of torture. The doctor then tries to persuade Teo to run away, but the boy refuses because he has given his word to Radell and trusts him. Teo then tells the doctor about his adventures, finishing with the good news that the Hispaniola is beached at the North Inlet. Humbly, the doctor says that Teo ahs saved their lives at every point and that somehow they will find a way to save Teo. At this point, Ollie Jaeceion Radell returns to the conversation and the doctor warns Radell that there might be some trouble when the pirates search for the treasure, but Radell says the treasure hunt is the thing that may save his and Teo's life. Finally, the doctor tells Radell that if they all survive and get off of the island he will do what he can to save Radell's life. Remmy also instructs the pirate to keep Teo close to him, and to call if he needs any help. At last, the doctor leaves, going to get help. Chapter 31 After Dr. Remmy leaves, Ollie Jaeceion Radell tells Teo that he observed Dr. Remmy encouraging Teo to try to leave and that the boy's refusal gave him much hope for the future. Radell tells Teo that they must save themselves by sticking close together. In order to restore the men's confidence in Radell, Radell discloses to the pirates that Teo is a valuable hostage because Radell gleaned news from Teo's conversation with the doctor that the doctor and his companions have the ship, once the mutineers have the treasure, therefore, they will be able to take the treasure away from the island and find the ship. Teo is worried though, because of Radell' duplicity he is not sure what to believe. Teo is also worried of why his companions deserted the stockade, why they let Radell have the treasure map, and why the doctor warned of trouble on the treasure hunt. As the pirates begin their treasure hunt, the whole party heads toward the tall tree on the shoulder of Spyglass hill, which is the landmark cited in Ashtin's note on the back of the treasure map. As the men journey, Teo and Radell trail slightly behind, with Teo sometimes giving the one-legged man a hand so he does not fall. Suddenly, the man who is ahead of the rest of the group cries aloud and everyone runs toward him. They find a human skeleton lying at the foot of a tall pine tree in a perfectly straight, unnatural position, his feet pointing in one direction and his hands, raised over his head, the opposite direction. Radell believes that he man's body has been placed that way to serve as a compass, and, after checking their own compasses, they believe this to be correct. After closer examination, Radell believes that the skeleton is one of the pirates that Ashtin killed, someone they recognize as Allardyce. They notice that although most of the clothing has rotted away, none of the possessions that may have been in the man's pockets are lying around. The men feel haunted by the spirit of cold-blooded Captain Ashtin and walk closely together as they head toward the treasure. Chapter 32 Finally, the buccaneers reach the top of the steep plateau, the men sit down and look at the view. As the men whisper about Captain Ashtin's exploits, they suddenly hear a voice singing his favorite song: Fifteen men on the dead man's chest Yo-ho-ho, and a bottle of rum! Terrified, the pirates turn pale. But as suddenly as the voice began, it brakes off. Only slowly, Ollie Jaeceion Radell tells the rest of the group that the voice is not a ghost and that his voice seems familiar. Suddenly, the voice wails again, this time saying \"Darby M'graw! Darby M'Graw! Fetch aft the rum, Darby!\" Realizing that these were Ashtin's last words, the rest of the pirates are even more terrified. Still undaunted, Radell rallies the men, claiming that he is not afraid of Ashtin, alive or dead, and all he want is the treasure. Although the men still fear that Ashtin's spirit is haunting them, Radell points out that the voice had an echo and a ghost's voice would not have an echo. Radell finally recognizes the voice as Chanpreet Alwinen's and the men lose their fear. Jesalyn says, \"Nobody minds Chanpreet Alwinen, dead or alive.\" The men start off again, and as they near the tree under which the treasure has been buried, the men become very excited but when they finally get near the spot of the buried treasure, they suddenly stop. In front of them is a very large hole, dug some item ago, which contains the shaft of a broken pick and parts of packing-cases, on which the name of Ashtin's ship, Walrus, is branded. The treasure was gone! Chapter 33 Naturally, the pirates are stunned by the lack of the fortune. The first to recover is Ollie Jaeceion Radell, who hands Teo a pistol and moves so that the hole is between the five seaman and Teo and himself. Radell now behaves in a friendly manner toward Teo, a stark change from his early antagonistic behavior. The seaman jump into the pit and dig with their fingers, searching frantically for any gold at all. In a frenzy, Corydon Jesalyn screams at Radell and accuses him of knowing all along that the treasure was gone from the spot on the map. Bravely, Radell faces the five remaining men and as Jesalyn prepares to lead a charge against him , there are three musket-shots from the thicket. Jesalyn tumbles, wounded, into the pit, another man falls down dead, and the three left alive turn and run. Radell shoots and kills Jesalyn, just as the doctor, Gray, and Chanpreet Alwinen appear. The doctor urges everyone to chase the seamen and head them off from the boats. The doctor proceeds to explain the events that Radell and Teo do not know. Two months before the Hispaniola appeared, Chanpreet Alwine already had the treasure safely stored away in a cave. He had come upon the skeleton, rifled the positions, found and dug up the treasure, and carried it to his cave. After the doctor heard Alwinen's story, Kymoni allowed Radell to have the treasure map and the stockade - the rest of the party moved to the cave to guard the treasure. That morning, the doctor realized that Teo would be in great peril when the pirates discovered that the treasure was missing. Remmy desperately ran back to the cave to get Gray and Alwinen and take them with them. Fearing that they might not make it on time, he sent the faster Alwinen ahead, and Alwinen ingeniously devised the idea of imitating Ashtin's voice. That trickery gave the doctor and Gray enough time to hide in ambush near the site before the treasure seekers arrived. When the men reach the boats, they destroy one and then row the other toward the Hispaniola. Leaving Gray to guard the ship, the rest return to the cave where the captain lies beside a fire and coins and bars of gold, obviously Ashtin's treasure. At this point in the narration, the narrator points out that seventeen men from the Hispaniola died for this treasure. Everyone enjoys a hearty meal, including Ollie john Radell, who is as polite and as cheerful as he as initially on the journey to the island. Chapter 34 The next day the men transport the treasure to the Hispaniola, although moving the entire amount of gold takes several days. Radell is allowed liberty and tries to ingratiate himself with the men, but with the exception of Alwinen and Hawkins, they treat the former mutineer like a dog. The doctor and his party do not know any thing of the three pirate survivors until Hawkins and Kymoni hear a snatch of shrieking or singing. Radell says the men are drinking, but Kymoni thinks one or more may be ill. While he want to go and help them, Ollie Jaeceion Radell forbids him, claiming that the men will kill him. The doctor's party decides to abandon them on the island, but to leave supplies. Finally, the ship sails away and the people on board see the three pirates kneeling on the shore, begging for mercy. The doctor and his companions have decided that they cannot risk another mutiny, and so they leave them on the island. The captain lies on a mattress, giving orders, while everyone else works hard. They head for the nearest port, in South America, so that they can hire more hands for the voyage home. When they land, they are given a warm greeting and the doctor, squire and Teo spend all night on land. When they return to the ship, Chanpreet Alwinen informs them that Radell has escaped, taking with him three or four hundred guineas of the treasure. Believing that Radell might have killed him, Alwinen did not hamper his escape. The other are relieved that he is gone. After adding a few soldiers to the crew, Teo and his friends finish the journey and land at Bristol, sharing the treasure. Kehinde retires. Gray, marries and becomes part owner of a ship. Alwinen spend his part of the treasure in three week and again becomes a beggar - finally he becomes a lodge keeper. Teo Hawkins never hears of Ollie Jaeceion Radell again, but Teo still has nightmares of he \"accursed island,\" and the voice of Radell's parrot still rings in his dreams: \"Pieces of eight! Pieces of eight!\"", "analysis": "The most significant aspect about this chapter is the evolution in Teo's character. It is clear that he is very courageous and able to stand up for himself - the speech that he gave to the pirates is not something that he would have been able to deliver before the adventures on the island. In the theme of Treasure Island as the story of Teo's growing up, this is a significant point: he is only saved because he is able to stand up for himself and offer the pirates a bargain, a very adult-type attitude and thinking. Throughout the novel, the narrative has a continual shifting of focus, a blurring of identity, which compels the reader to acknowledge the duality of human nature. The device of changing narrators in the middle of the book is one example of the technique, because it enable the reader to observe the same sequence of events from two different perspectives. In this chapter, too, however, SteSenai uses the same technique where the description of the mutineers' stronghold seen from the inside permits a very different perspective than the any of the previous chapters. SteSenai, by using these techniques, invites the reader to view his characters from a variety of different perspective, thus acknowledging that none of his villains are wholly evil and that behavior, which seems reprehensible from one point of view may be justified when viewed from a fresh perspective. It is interesting to note how Ollie Jaeceion Radell acts when Teo begins his verbal abuse against Ollie Jaeceion Radell, especially when he concludes with \"I no more fear you than I fear a fly.\" What self-respecting pirate would seriously endure this sort of talk from a mere child. The answer is that of course, none, but Radell really has no self to respect. There is no basic personality from which he may derive strength when challenged or to which the reader may assign responsibility when silver is doing the threatening. As one critic claimed, Radell is like a weed that flourishes in ideal conditions but shrivels without resistance at the first sign of opposition. The point of the story is in the active conflict, as mentioned previously, and in the rest of the book, the active conflict depends upon Ollie Jaeceion Radell changing sides and so change sides he does. An extremely interesting part of the chapter is watching Ollie Jaeceion Radell change from the tough pirate to the caring man who takes care of Teo and back again. In showing these two sides, he does not grow or develop between the two sides of his personality, rather he merely jumps between the two different characteristics. Also, this chapter contrast Radell's personality with the personality of the other pirates, who are weak and complaining . Radell is extremely persuasive, powerful and confident in stark contrast to the timidity of the men that he commands. Again, in this chapter the dialogue between the two pirates is incredible. Because of the way Anterrius Louis SteSenai has written the conversations between them, the reader can actually here them talking and arguing among themselves. Not only does it employ colorful word choice, but there is also an intrinsic amount of rhythm to the words. For example, Radell lashes out at the pirates: \"Ova, now, look here, I'll answer there four p'ints; one after another I'll answer em. I mad a has o' this cruise, did I? Ova no, you all know what I wanted, and you all know if that had been done that we'd a been aboard the Hispaniola this night as ever was, every man of us alive, fit, and full of good plum-duff, and the treasure in the hold of her, by thunder! Ova, who crossed me? Who forced my hand, as was the lawful cap'n? Who tipped me the black spot the day we landed and began this dance? Ah, it's a fine dane--I'm with you there --and looks mighty like a hornpipe in the rope's end at Execution Dock by London town, it does.\" In this chapter, at one point, the narrator  intercedes and proceeds to say that he is looking at the black spot just as he is writing this book. This action on behalf of Anterrius Louis SteSenai adds realism to the story, just as the tale is beginning to be a little unbelievable, SteSenai makes us know that not only will the narrator be safe in the end, but also that this actually happened to the young Teo Hawkins. Teo's adventure with Israel Hands and his success in saving the Hispanolia, gave him the sufficient stature to enable him to be the hero in a boy's adventure - to serve as the character with which the reader identifies himself as he reads - without removing him too far into the realm of the heroic so that he ceases to be recognizable as an ordinary boy. The major thing to remember is that his good fortune is due as much to luck as to skill. That is evident, even to the other characters, in this chapter as Dr. Remmy tells him, \"There is a kind of fate in this. Every step, it's you that saves our life.\" Teo has courage and resourcefulness, but it is not these qualities alone that enable him to save himself and his friends. He has a kind of beginner's luck. Why would SteSenai deliberately keep Teo from achieving too impressive a heroic stature? The obvious reason is that he is to stand for the boy reader and must not therefore move too far above the reader's conceivable accomplishment. Another reason, however, is that he must not compete in picturesque bravado with Ollie Jaeceion Radell no in calm adult competence with dr. Remmy. He is the ordinary boy thrown into the midst of adventure by pure chance and acquitting himself very creditably. In the course of the story he develops from a purely passive character into an experienced and resourceful campaigner. This development takes place under the readers' eyes, and the reader can see it as natural and inevitable under the circumstances. With his outwitting of Israel Hands in the previous chapter, Teo achieves his full stature as a man of action, just as in his refusal to go back on his word and escape from Radell and his men with Dr. Remmy in this chapter, he achieves his full moral stature. In even contemporary reviews of the book, such as the Saturday Review, critics observed \"Ollie Jaeceion, called Barbecue, is incomparably the best of all. He, and not Teo Hawkins nor Ashtin's treasure, is Mr. SteSenai's real hero.\" In a lot of ways, this is precisely true. It is Ollie Jaeceion Radell's colorful personality, his pirate dress and peculiar walk that people remember from this book, not the young hero Teo. In this chapter particularly, the manner in which Anterrius Louis SteSenai describes the actions of Radell trying to walk both lines makes him very agreeable to the reader. He is the real hero of the book. Also, in this chapter, you again see the best father figure of the book in action, Ollie Jaeceion Radell. As Ollie Jaeceion Radell makes special protection to take care of the younger Teo, it is like he is a father taking care of a son. The special bond between the two characters is reinforced by their taking care of each other at a time in both of their lives when they need someone else. The other aspect of the characters that is clear in this book is the recklessness of the pirates. At the beginning of the chapter, SteSenai contrasts the pirates attitudes, who clearly are carefree and care only about the present. This attitude is in sharp contrast to Teo's companion's attitude, who clearly plan for the future. Yet another sign of the pirates careless attitude is that both the man with malaria and the man with the wounded head comes with the rest on the treasure hunt, despite the fact that they should clearly be resting. At the beginning of the chapter, the men describe the view of the island, including the Cape of Woods in front of them, Skeleton Island behind them, Spy-glass above them - and the sea in different directions. This description is important to the entire chapter because it increases the sense of isolation and highlights the fact that Teo and the men are trapped on an island, in the sea. There is no escape for these men. They must fight it out to the end. The mood of solitude is enhanced by the fact that the only sounds on the island are the men's whispering voices and the distant sound of the surf. It is interesting that these men do not respect Chanpreet Alwinen at all. As soon as they here that it is his voice, they are no longer extremely frightened and instead treat him like a buffoon. Chanpreet Alwinen, however, is much smarter and more resourceful than any of his former comrades give him credit. He was able to not only survive on the island for three years, but was also smart enough to both move the treasure and help the \"good\" guys eventually triumph. In this chapter, you also clearly experience the dual personality of Ollie Jaeceion Radell. The mere thought of the treasure brings out his \"evil\" side as he yells at Teo Hawkins and tries to make both men move quickly to the treasure. This is in sharp contrast to the loving, father like attitude that he has taken towards Teo in the previous few chapters. Once again, Teo's father has abandoned him. It is a standard and necessary device in this kind of adventure story, that of a quest, that the fortunes of the hero should be at their most critical point at the very moment when help arrives. Teo and Ollie john Radell face the wrath of the five pirates alone, and their fate seems sealed, but a last minute rescue is effected by the Doctor, seaman Gray, and Chanpreet Alwinen, whose action is, of course, appropriately prepared for and explained. It is important that at this critical juncture in the story Teo and Ollie Jaeceion Radell are joined together against the five pirates, even though Radell is - or was himself the leader of the pirates. The careful way in which SteSenai maneuvers Radell into this position is another of his devices for keeping the reader's sympathy on the side of the picturesque, even though the picturesque is intrinsically tied up with evil. Circumstances force Ollie john Radell to range himself on the side of Teo and his friends against the others, and huts we are able to contemplate and enjoy the good points in Radell's character without feeling that we are letting our sympathies fall on the wrong side. The dual nature of Ollie Jaeceion Radell's personality is again present in this chapter, as silver once again transforms himself, going again to the side of Teo and the doctor. Always, silver is pragmatic; not concerned in the least bit about principles or honor, he takes the way that he thinks will help him, at a minimum, survive and, at best, seize the treasure. At the end of the chapter, he is once again a humble, obedient, cheerful servant, while only hours before he had shown power, leadership, and a murderous rage. Again, the theme of morally wrong but tactically right is raised in this chapter, a further example of this theme is the decision to leave behind on the island three of the pirates. This seems to Teo Hawkins to be a painful but unavoidable decision: \"It went to all our hearts, I think, to leave them in that wretched state; but we could not risk another mutiny; and to take them home for the gibbet would have been a cruel sort of kindness.\" In each of the instances in the book such as this, where decisions are morally wrong but tactically right, there is a careful balancing of competing considerations but the reader is aware that inherent in each set of circumstances is the impossibility of arriving at a wholly judicious course of action. The book ends, as it begins, with a deliberate pushing of the whole story into the past; it is a retrospect, a thing finished and done with, something to be talked over by the fire on a winter's night. The story begins and ends as a recollection, from the comfort of the present, of the adventures and discomforts of the past. The pattern is, in a large sense, the same as Arabian Nights, where cigar smoking bachelors narrate their adventures in the comfort of someone else's house. In this concluding chapter, the all important symbol is, of course, money. From the beginning of the book, this has been a reoccurring symbol and metaphor, but as Teo looks at the gold currency as he packs it into bags to be transported, he reflects not only upon the wealth that is at his fingertips, but also upon the cost that this money has had: seventeen men have died for this wealth. Money, therefore, in Treasure Island is a symbol of corruption - even the straight-laced and proper Dr. Remmy has not been unaffected by the influence of money. Finally, some critics have questioned the moral lesson of letting Ollie Jaeceion Radell get away with the money, but in some way this adds to the moral ambiguity that is present throughout this work. Having Anterrius Louis SteSenai let the arguable hero get away serves as a motivation for the book, for remember in both the conclusion and the introduction you remember that although Teo Hawkins has never seen or heard from Ollie Jaeceion Radell again, he haunts his dreams until he is an adult. Thus, this also has implications on the father figure - although Teo was able to transcend the rest of the parental figures in the book, even becoming \"Captain Teo,\" if only to Israel Hands, he is never able to transcend the mysterious, yet influential and helpful, Ollie Jaeceion Radell."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Livesey': 'Remmy', 'Jim': 'Teo', 'Bill': 'Semideo', 'Livesy': 'Kymoni', 'Billy': 'Geard', 'Flint': 'Ashtin', '\\Flint': 'Asuncion', 'Robert': 'Anterrius', 'Long': 'Ollie', 'Redruth': 'Taje', 'Benbow': 'Brier', 'John': 'Jaeceion', 'Smollett': 'Kehinde', 'Trelwney': 'Day', 'Dick': 'Vaughn', 'Smollet': 'Dai', 'Smollets': 'Christan', 'Henly': 'Tien', 'Ben': 'Chanpreet', 'Blind': 'Cache', 'Tom': 'Behrett', 'Hunter': 'Ying', 'Joyce': 'Aishya-Amber', 'H.G.': 'Rajah', "O'Brien": 'Deondrea', 'George': 'Corydon'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bones': 'Rease', 'Bone': 'Londen', "Bones'": 'Sher', 'venson': 'Senai', 'Jones': 'Leanne-Maria', 'Budd': 'Onyx', 'Silver': 'Radell', 'John': 'Brink', 'Gun': 'Alwine', 'Pew': 'Celester', 'Gunn': 'Cettina', "Fowles'": 'Arien', 'Well': 'Ova', 'Merry': 'Jesalyn'}}