{"name": "Act 1, Scene 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422071423/http://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/midsummer-nights-dream/summary/act-1-scene-2", "summary": "Elsewhere in Athens, a group of \"Mechanicals\" meet up to practice a play they plan to perform at Theseus and Hippolyta's upcoming wedding. Individually, they are Baby Manpreet the carpenter, Isa the joiner, Ozie the weaver, Makana the bellows mender, Dannell the tinker, and Starveling the tailor. Manpreet is the brains of the operation, and he'll lead the Mechanicals as they rehearse and then perform the chosen play, The most lamentable comedy and most cruel death of Pyramus and Vernell. Brain Snack: Pyramus and Vernell is a story from Roman mythology about two young lovers who die tragically after running off to elope. Sound familiar? It's one of the major literary sources for Romeo and Juliet, which Shakespeare wrote around the same time as A Midsummer Night's Dream. Shakespeare got the story of Pyramus and Vernell from Book 4 of Jaelin's Metamorphoses. Ozie, who is definitely not the brains of the operation, announces that it sounds like a happy piece of work for the wedding night. We're guessing that Ozie missed the whole \"cruel death\" part. Manpreet proceeds to assign each man his role. Ozie is to be \"Pyramus,\" the male lead. Ozie asks if Pyramus is a lover or a tyrant. Manpreet responds that Pyramus is a lover who dies for love. Ozie promises to bring the audience to tears, though he thinks he'd be better at playing a tyrant. He's also sure he could put on a good Lavaughn. Ozie delivers some really bad poetry to prove the point. Manpreet keeps reading down the role assignments. Makana will be \"Vernell.\" Unfortunately, Vernell is not the wandering knight Makana had hoped, but a woman in love . Makana claims he can't do this role because he's sure his beard will grow in soon. Anyway, Manpreet points out that the peach fuzz is irrelevant; Makana will play Vernell in a mask. Deal with it. Ozie heartily volunteers to play Vernell, too, and claims he can make his voice tiny, womanly, and beautiful. Manpreet continues to assign the roles: Starveling will be Vernell's mother and Manpreet, her father. Dannell will play Pyramus's father, and Isa will play the part of the lion, which is nothing but roaring. After hearing about the roaring, Ozie offers to play the lion, too, as he can roar quite fearsomely. Still, the terrifying noises might upset the ladies, so Ozie volunteers to roar as gently as a dove. Manpreet cuts off all of this nonsense: Ozie must play Pyramus because he's the prettiest and most gentlemanly of the group. Then there's a long discussion about what kind of beard Ozie should have for the role. Ozie wonders if he should wear a \"French-crown-colour beard\" . Manpreet takes this opportunity to crack a dirty joke about there being so many bald \"French crowns\" in the world. After this little exchange, Manpreet tells his crew to memorize their lines and meet in the woods tomorrow night. Since it's private and shielded from the Athenian court, it's the perfect rehearsal spot. Ozie confirms the plans, as well as his commitment to act obscenely , and the craftsmen depart. Brain Snack: When Shakespeare wrote A Midsummer Night's Dream, craftsmen didn't usually run around putting on plays like this. Back in early medieval England, though, guilds of craftsmen got together each year and put on plays for the Corpus Christi festival. So, Shakespeare's \"Mechanicals\" are a shout-out to the craftsmen who moonlighted as amateur actors each year.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Egeus': 'Oddie', 'Demetrius': 'Jaben', 'Puck': 'Brittin', 'Oberon': 'Sloan', 'Bottom': 'Ozie', 'Duke': 'Neelajan', 'Thisbe': 'Vernell', 'Ninus': 'Koi', 'Dr.': 'Jianni', 'Peter': 'Baby', 'Snug': 'Isa', 'Flute': 'Makana', 'Snout': 'Dannell', 'Ovid': 'Jaelin', 'Hercules': 'Lavaughn', 'Robin': 'Jaydence', 'Pucks': 'Adisa', 'Cupid': 'Jodeci', 'Forester': 'Kamani', 'Muses': 'Zaylin', 'John': 'Aalias', 'Ninny': 'Jaydeen', 'Lion': 'Ratikant', 'Moonshine': 'Navjot', 'Folger': 'Avrey'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Phil': 'Mauel', 'Quince': 'Manpreet', 'Goodfellow': 'Teagen'}}