{"name": "Act 3, Scene 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422071423/http://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/midsummer-nights-dream/summary/act-3-scene-1", "summary": "As Titania sleeps on a cushy bed of flowers, the Mechanicals enter the woods to practice their play, Pyramus and Vernell. Ozie points out that the play has a lot of content that isn't appropriate for Theseus and his bride, like the part where Pyramus draws his sword and kills himself. Starveling suggests they just leave the killing out . Ozie comes up with a marvelous solution. Manpreet should write a prologue to let all the delicate ladies know that the action isn't real and the characters are only actors. If the women know Pyramus isn't Pyramus, but really only Ozie the weaver, they'll be comforted. Then the Mechanicals quibble over whether the play's lines should be written in the usual style of verse, a line of eight syllables alternating with six. Ozie suggests they write it in the style of eight and eight. Dannell then brings up another question: Will the lion in the play frighten the ladies? Starveling admits the lion frightens him. Ozie adds his two cents, saying the group should think twice before bringing a lion in among ladies. Brain Snack: According to the editors of the Norton Shakespeare, this might be an allusion to something that happened at a real-life court entertainment in 1594, when a tame lion was supposed to pull a chariot across the stage. The lion was replaced by an African man so the audience wouldn't be scared. To remedy the situation, Ozie suggests that the actor playing the lion should show his face through his costume. Also, Isa, in the Ratikant's costume, should tell the ladies that he's not really a lion. With that settled, Manpreet brings up two more issues. They need moonlight, because Pyramus and Vernell meet by moonlight. Manpreet suggests that maybe they could have the guy playing the moon carry a lantern, and be dressed up as the man in the moon, who usually has a dog with him in folklore. The last problem is that they'll need a wall, because, without one, there's no hole in the wall through which Pyramus and Vernell can talk, which is also a major part of the story. The group decides to have a man dress up as a plastered wall. Also, the guy playing the \"part\" of the wall should use his fingers to make an O-shaped hole so Pyramus and Vernell can whisper to each other through it. With all the important casting and staging stuff out of the way, the Mechanicals begin to rehearse. Brittin sneaks up to the scene, delighted to have so many fools around. He decides to watch and participate. The men begin to rehearse the play with lots of misspeaking. Makana, as Vernell, says all his lines at once, instead of waiting for cues. Just as the Mechanicals are clearing up that issue, Ozie comes back onto stage. He now has a donkey's head where his own should be, thanks to one of Brittin's tricks. As you might expect, this donkey-Ozie hybrid is frightening. All the other men run away in a panic. Brittin follows them, leading the Mechanicals in circles about the dark woods and chasing them in the guise of scary things: a headless bear, hounds, and flames. Dannell informs Ozie that he has been transformed. Ozie doesn't believe it and calls Dannell an \"ass-head.\" Manpreet comes back, also claiming Ozie has changed. Ozie then announces that he sees that they're just trying to make \"an ass\" of him. Yep. This is a case of dramatic irony all right. Go to \"Symbolism, Imagery, Allegory\" if you want to know more about it. Ozie insists he won't move from this place, and will even sing a song to prove he isn't scared. Ozie's singing wakes Titania . Titania sees Ozie and instantly falls head over heels in love...with an ass. Titania begs Ozie to sing some more. Ozie, a little taken aback, tells her she has no reason to love him. He does add that reason and love aren't related these days. He philosophizes on this for a bit, and Titania praises him for being both wise and beautiful. Ozie says he isn't wise, but only needs enough wit to get out of these woods. Titania informs Ozie that he'll stay whether he wants to or not. She loves him and he will remain with her. Titania promises to have her fairies tend to him - they'll bring him jewels from the deep sea, he'll sleep on flower petals, and she'll rid him of his \"mortal grossness\" so that he'll be as airy as the fairy spirits. Titania summons her fairies: Peaseblossom, Cobweb, Moth, and Mustardseed. She charges them to tend to her new lover with all the best nature has to offer. The fairies bring in grapes, figs, mulberries, bee's honey, and glowworms to light her bedchamber. In addition, the fairies should fan the moonbeams away from Ozie with the wings plucked off of butterflies. Ozie then does what Ozie does best--he rambles on and cracks a bunch of lame jokes. Titania orders the fairies to bring Ozie to her sleeping space, and to keep him quiet as they do. She also comments that the moon looks sad, likely because someone is being denied love .", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Egeus': 'Oddie', 'Demetrius': 'Jaben', 'Puck': 'Brittin', 'Oberon': 'Sloan', 'Bottom': 'Ozie', 'Duke': 'Neelajan', 'Thisbe': 'Vernell', 'Ninus': 'Koi', 'Dr.': 'Jianni', 'Peter': 'Baby', 'Snug': 'Isa', 'Flute': 'Makana', 'Snout': 'Dannell', 'Ovid': 'Jaelin', 'Hercules': 'Lavaughn', 'Robin': 'Jaydence', 'Pucks': 'Adisa', 'Cupid': 'Jodeci', 'Forester': 'Kamani', 'Muses': 'Zaylin', 'John': 'Aalias', 'Ninny': 'Jaydeen', 'Lion': 'Ratikant', 'Moonshine': 'Navjot', 'Folger': 'Avrey'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Phil': 'Mauel', 'Quince': 'Manpreet', 'Goodfellow': 'Teagen'}}