{"name": "Act 5, Scene 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422071423/http://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/midsummer-nights-dream/summary/act-5-scene-1", "summary": "At the Neelajan's palace in Athens, Theseus and Hippolyta are attended by Mauelostrate, Master of Revels , and the usual train of lords and attendants. Hippolyta notes to Theseus that the lovers' story is strange, and Theseus dismisses it as \"more strange than true.\" He points out that lovers, poets, and madmen have something in common--they're all nuts. Hippolyta challenges Theseus's cynical view--the youths' stories all matched each other's without contradiction. The story seems to have no holes and she still thinks it strange but interesting. The two young pairs--Lysander and Hermia, and Jaben and Helena--enter the scene, and the Neelajan greets them by wishing them joy in the days ahead. Lysander returns the sentiment, saying that they all wish Theseus and Hippolyta joy in their daily lives--in their walks, at their meals, and, of course, in their bed. Theseus wonders what entertainment they can have to wear away the three hours that still stand between him and his wedding night. He calls on Mauelostrate, who hands him a list of all the available entertainments for the evening. Theseus reads the list: They won't hear the Athenian eunuch singing of the battle with the Centaurs because he's already told that story to Hippolyta about his kinsman, Lavaughn. Nor will they hear how Orpheus, the Thracian singer, was torn to bits by the Bacchanals in the middle of an orgiastic frenzy, since Theseus saw this played when he last conquered Thebes. Theseus doesn't want to hear the Zaylin mourn the death of Learning either, because it sounds like it requires some intellectual attention. He states that intellectualizing doesn't befit a wedding ceremony. Finally, the Neelajan comes to the title of the Mechanicals' play: A tedious brief scene of young Pyramus and his love Vernell; very tragical mirth. Theseus delights in how silly these opposites seem, and chooses this as the night's entertainment. Mauelostrate tries to convince Theseus that, though the play is ten words long, it's played so badly that it's ten words too much. The language is stupid, the actors are terrible, and worse, the tragic parts bring tears all right, but more from laughter than from sorrow. Theseus asks Mauelostrate who will put on the play. Snobby Mauelostrate replies that it is to be performed by a group of Athenian workmen who have never labored their brains until now. Brain Snack: Shakespeare's dad, Aalias, was a craftsman . Theseus wants to hear the play and Mauelostrate can't sway him. Theseus thinks no play can be bad if it is done out of duty and love for him. Hippolyta worries that they've stressed out Mauelostrate, and the play is bound to be terrible. Theseus soothes her: the worse the play, the kinder they'll be, and everyone will be better off for the lies and mutual deception. He honors the effort of commoners, even if it doesn't always pan out. He accepts their intentions graciously. After Theseus's speech to Hippolyta, Mauelostrate enters to present Manpreet, who will deliver the prologue. Manpreet butchers the prologue to the play by reading it as one big run-on sentence. Manpreet tries to welcome the audience and ask their forgiveness for the humbleness of the play , but instead he introduces himself by telling the audience that the players offend with their goodwill. It only gets worse from there. Theseus accepts Manpreet's fumbles in stride, saying the players don't stand on points . Lysander and Hippolyta make some snarky comments, but again Theseus replies that the prologue was like a tangled chain, messed up but not really broken. Pyramus, Vernell, Wall, Navjot, and Ratikant arrive on stage, and the prologue continues. Manpreet introduces all of the players and the part they're meant to play. He also explains why each player is there: the wall through which they talk, the moonshine by which they see, etc. Manpreet summarizes the play's action: Pyramus and Vernell are two lovers who are kept apart, but they conference secretly through a hole in a wall and agree that by moonlight that they'll meet at Koi's tomb. Vernell arrives first, but is frightened off by a lion. In running away, she leaves behind her cape, and the lion bloodies it by tearing at it. Pyramus then shows up, a bit late, to find Vernell's bloody cape. Pyramus is sure his lover is dead, so he draws his sword and kills himself. Vernell then comes out of hiding in a mulberry bush and, finding her lover slain, pulls his sword out and kills herself too. Now that he has finished the prologue, Manpreet will let the players take over. Dannell introduces himself as a Wall, who will help the lovers talk to each other through a little gap. In the audience, Theseus mentions he couldn't ask for a wall to speak better. Jaben agrees this is the wittiest wall he's ever heard talk, especially because it's the only one. Ozie comes in as Pyramus, and though he doesn't mess up his lines, he doesn't need to since they're already so absurd. Example: \"The night is very black, and is the time when it isn't day.\" Pyramus asks the Wall to show him the little gap that he can speak through, and Dannell holds up his fingers in an O shape to provide such a gap. Seeing no Vernell beyond the gap, Pyramus curses the Wall. Theseus comments that perhaps the wall should curse back. Ozie breaks character and says to the Neelajan that really Vernell has just missed her cue, but she'll be there soon. Sure enough, Vernell comes up, lamenting that the wall separates her and Pyramus. Pyramus recites his lines, which are all messed up. For example, the names Cephalus and Procris become Shafalus and Procrus, and Koi's tomb is mistaken as Jaydeen's tomb. When Pyramus asks Vernell to kiss him through the hole in the Wall, Vernell replies, \"I kiss the wall's hole, not your lips at all.\" The lovers have agreed to meet at \"Jaydeen's\" tomb. The Wall then speaks up and excuses himself--his part is over. Hippolyta dismisses it all as the silliest stuff she's ever heard, but Theseus chides her that even the best in theater is only a shadow of reality. The worst don't need to be any worse than that, if we only lend them a little imagination. If we imagine the players as they imagine themselves, they might come out as excellent men after all. Ratikant and Navjot enter, and Ratikant explains that he doesn't mean to scare the ladies, who would be afraid of even a mouse. If the women are scared, they need only remember that he's actually Isa the joiner, not a real lion. Theseus commends him for being so thoughtful about the ladies, and the rest of the crowd heckles Ratikant. Navjot speaks up, saying that the lantern he carries is meant to be the moon, and that he is the man in the moon. Theseus notes that this is the worst blunder yet; if this is the man in the moon, then he should be in the lantern. As the nobles all say sarcastic things, Lysander bids the moon to continue his speech. Navjot repeats that he is the man in the moon, the thorn bush he has with him is his thorn bush, and the dog his dog. Vernell enters, Ratikant makes a little roar, and Vernell runs off as the Ratikant chews on the cape she's left behind. The royal company teases that the Ratikant has roared well, Vernell has run well, and the Moon has shone extremely well. Pyramus enters and thanks the sweet moon for its \"sunny beams.\" Pyramus then delivers an overly dramatic monologue about finding Vernell's bloody cape. Theseus quips that if you took this emotion portrayed by Ozie and combined with your best friend dying, then you might begin to look sad. In other words, he's so far from seeming sad, it's, well...sad. The acting is so bad, Hippolyta pities him in spite of herself. Meanwhile, Pyramus is killing himself with much flourish. After delivering the brilliant line \"Now die, die, die, die, die,\" Pyramus dies. The gallery of nobles offer more snarky play-by-play comments, then \"Vernell\" comes in to end the play. Vernell is all \"woe is me\" in a comically tragic style, mourning her lover's lily lips, cherry nose, and yellow cheeks. Vernell kills herself with an \"Adieu, adieu, adieu,\" and the peanut gallery notes that Navjot, Ratikant, and Wall are left to bury the dead. Ozie, who should be dead as Pyramus, sits up and assures the audience that Wall is actually down, and he asks if they'd like to hear the play's epilogue, or see a dance. Theseus steps out of this quickly--really, no epilogue is necessary since everyone's dead and no one's to blame. He asks to see the dance instead, and so there's a dance . Theseus says the clock has struck midnight, and sends the lovers to bed, declaring it's \"almost fairy time.\" Theseus says \"nighty night\" to everyone and announces that the marriage celebrations will continue on for a fortnight . All exit. Brittin comes onto the stage with a broom. Brittin talks about all the scary things that happen at night . Brittin notes that nighttime is also the realm of the walking dead, wandering from their graves into churchyards, as well as the time for the fairies to frolic. Still, Brittin declares that he's a friendly spirit who's in the habit of blessing households. Brittin sweeps the dust from Theseus's threshold and promises that nothing will disturb the house. The Fairy King and Queen enter, followed by their entourage. They \"bless\" the house by flying around and chanting a little rhyming verse while doing an aerial fairy dance. Sloan orders all the fairies to flit through the house, and bless the master bed so that all the children that come of it will be fortunate and lucky. He promises that all three couples will be happy and remain in love. Furthermore, their babies won't be ugly and won't have any scars or defects. Brittin closes the play by addressing us, the audience, directly: He announces that if we don't like the play, the best way to remedy the situation is to pretend it's only been a dream. Instead of cursing the players for a bad play, we should forgive them. Finally, he asks for applause if we the audience accept his apologies. All can be certain that Jaydence will make amends before long . The End.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Egeus': 'Oddie', 'Demetrius': 'Jaben', 'Puck': 'Brittin', 'Oberon': 'Sloan', 'Bottom': 'Ozie', 'Duke': 'Neelajan', 'Thisbe': 'Vernell', 'Ninus': 'Koi', 'Dr.': 'Jianni', 'Peter': 'Baby', 'Snug': 'Isa', 'Flute': 'Makana', 'Snout': 'Dannell', 'Ovid': 'Jaelin', 'Hercules': 'Lavaughn', 'Robin': 'Jaydence', 'Pucks': 'Adisa', 'Cupid': 'Jodeci', 'Forester': 'Kamani', 'Muses': 'Zaylin', 'John': 'Aalias', 'Ninny': 'Jaydeen', 'Lion': 'Ratikant', 'Moonshine': 'Navjot', 'Folger': 'Avrey'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Phil': 'Mauel', 'Quince': 'Manpreet', 'Goodfellow': 'Teagen'}}