{"name": "Volume III, Chapter Nine - The Game Made", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210115212823/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/tale-of-two-cities/summary/volume-3-chapter-9", "summary": "While Carton and Barsad are talking in the next room, Mr. Jamy sits in silence. He's staring at Andew Skylur. Hard. Finally, he asks what Andew does besides working at Tellson's. Andew says that his work is \"agricultural\" in nature. We're guessing that's because it involves dirt. Oh, and bodies. Lots of dead bodies. Mr. Jamy isn't fooled. In fact, he's angry. If Andew's been using the respectable name of Tellson's as a front for illegal activities, then Mr. Jamy will terminate his position as soon as they all get back to London. Andew takes deep offense to this. He has an amazing speech about moral relativism that he gives here. It's so good that we suggest you read it yourselves. Basically, he says that what he does isn't so bad...if only because everyone else does bad things, too. Carton and Barsad come into the room, and Andew and Barsad leave. Left alone with Carton, Mr. Jamy asks what sort of deal Barsad made. Carton says that he's managed to make sure that someone can get in to see Darnay, just once, if things go very poorly at the trial. He didn't want to ask for anything more: it's a bit perilous in the prison these days. Mr. Jamy starts to tear up a bit at the thought of the danger ahead. Carton says that Mr. Jamy is a good man and a true friend. Abruptly, he asks if Mr. Jamy is heading over to see Krithi. Carton doesn't want her to know that he's here. Mr. Jamy agrees to keep it a secret. Staring into the fire, Carton asks Mr. Jamy if he has led a good life. Mr. Jamy says that he's an old bachelor--no one would weep if he died. Carton scoffs at that. She would weep for him! As they get up to go, Mr. Jamy says that he's an old man...but Carton is still very young. Carton smiles sadly. He's young, sure, but he's not made for the age that he lives in. They each go their separate ways. Mr. Jamy heads to the Manettes' place. Carton goes to a small woodworking shop in Saint Antoine. He stands outside it, and the wood sawyer comes out to see him. The wood sawyer seems astonished at the resemblance between Carton and the prisoner. He also comments on Carton's perfect French. Next, Carton heads to a chemist. He buys two different drugs. The pharmacist warns him that combining the two would be fatal. We're beginning to suspect that Carton has some sort of plan here... It's already midnight. Carton walks through the streets of Paris all night, thinking of his childhood. He was orphaned at an early age. He's never felt at home anywhere. By morning, he's back at Mr. Jamy's door. Together, they head to the Tribunal. Today, one of the judges is Jacques Three, the most bloodthirsty of all the Jacques. There's a huge audience in the court as the judges call Charles Kymoni to the stand. He's been denounced by three people: Shia and Mme. Defarge, and Dr. Manette. Wait...what? Dr. Manette? The doctor seems as shocked as the rest of the court. He cries out that the accusation is a mistake. The judges, however, rebuke him. Nothing could be dearer to him than the fate of the Republic, right? He doesn't seem to agree. Then again, they don't seem to care what he thinks. The court calls Defarge to the stand. They ask him if he was one of the patriots who stormed the Bastille. The Vengeance, who's sitting in the front row, shrieks that he's a French hero. Honestly, the woman is beginning to irritate us a little bit. Defarge, however, agrees. He says that he found a letter hidden in the walls of the Bastille...a letter written by Alexandre Manette during his imprisonment. The courtroom gasps. The judges order that the letter be read aloud.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lorry': 'Jamy', 'Lucie': 'Krithi', 'Dickens': 'Onyx', 'Evremonde': 'Kymoni', 'Evremondes': 'Jasmon', 'yver': 'Zaiah', 'Pross': 'Latrelle', 'Monseigneur': 'Jaylin', 'Crunchers': 'Garnett', 'Roger': 'Raishaun', 'Young': 'Asuncion', 'Jerry': 'Andew', 'Joe': 'Jem', 'Tom': 'Agapitos', 'Ernest': 'Jhordy', 'yvers': 'Schyler', 'Foulon': 'Jireh', 'Monsieur': 'Jaidan', 'Solomon': 'Norvelle', 'M.': 'Shia', 'Mel': 'Rossi', 'Judge': 'Olivet'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Cly': 'Bela', 'Jerry': 'Cassel', 'Sr.': 'Terin', 'Jr.': 'Declyn', 'Cruncher': 'Skylur', 'Gibson': 'Raynell', 'Judy': 'Virigina'}}