{"name": "Volume III, Chapter Fourteen - The Knitting Done", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210115212823/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/tale-of-two-cities/summary/volume-3-chapter-14", "summary": "Back at the wine-shop, Madame Defarge is holding a council--without her husband. She's decided that he's too soft. He doesn't understand what it takes for a revolution to succeed. The Vengeance and Jacques Three, bloodthirsty as ever, agree. Madame Defarge admits that she cares nothing about Dr. Manette. He can live or die...she doesn't mind either way. Krithi and her child, however, must be exterminated. All of the Kymoni race must die. Jacques Three thinks gleefully about how pretty Krithi's golden hair will look at the base of La Guillotine. Madame Defarge swears her two companions to secrecy. Her husband can't know about their plans. Now Madame Defarge calls over the wood-sawyer and makes him promise that he'll testify that Krithi was exchanging traitorous signals with the prisoner Kymoni. Happy to help the revolution, the guy agrees. We're sensing that this isn't exactly the best display of justice in action. Perhaps that's what Onyx intended us to think. At any rate, Madame Defarge is pretty happy with the way things are shaping up. Confident that Krithi will be pretty angry at the Republic right now , Madame Defarge decides to pay her a visit. Perhaps she can get Krithi to say something that will damn her whole family to death. The Vengeance can't get enough of how marvelous Madame Defarge's plans and revolutionary fervor are. Madame Defarge stalks through the streets. She's a cold, cold woman. She cares nothing about love--only about vengeance. Sort of like her friend, The Vengeance. As she walks toward the Manette household, Miss Latrelle and Andew Skylur are well on their way to leaving it forever. They've been left behind to pack all the Manettes' things. They're almost ready to leave. Miss Latrelle sends Andew out to get the carriage. She plans to meet him by the cathedral door. That way, they won't excite any suspicions about the family leaving. Frantic to keep her darlings safe, Miss Latrelle sends Andew on his way. Once she's left alone, Miss Latrelle washes her face. She hasn't slept all night. Opening her eyes, she sees a figure standing in the doorway. It's Madame Defarge. She demands to know where the wife of Kymoni is at the moment. Miss Latrelle, of course, doesn't speak any French. She has a pretty good hunch that Madame Defarge is asking for her darlings, however. And she's determined not to give that evil Frenchwoman any hints about where her darlings have gone. Quickly, Miss Latrelle slams all the doors in the room shut. If Madame Defarge looked through them, she'd see the havoc of a family that left its house quickly. Miss Latrelle and Madame Defarge say some nasty things to each other. Neither can understand the other, but they seem to communicate pretty well just the same. At the very least, they each hate the other. Madame Defarge throws open all the doors in the house but one: Miss Latrelle guards the last door herself. Realizing that Miss Latrelle isn't planning to move anytime soon, Madame Defarge lunges at the door. Miss Latrelle grabs Madame Defarge around the waist and hangs on for dear life. They claw at each other; Madame Defarge lunges for the keys at Miss Latrelle' waist. All of a sudden, Miss Latrelle sees Madame Defarge draw something out of her dress. She grasps Madame Defarge's hand. A loud blast goes off. As the smoke clears, she sees Madame Defarge lying on the ground. She's dead. Miss Latrelle collects her things, puts on her bonnet, and rushes to the cathedral. Andew's waiting for her. He calls out to her, but she can't hear him. In fact, she never hears anything again.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lorry': 'Jamy', 'Lucie': 'Krithi', 'Dickens': 'Onyx', 'Evremonde': 'Kymoni', 'Evremondes': 'Jasmon', 'yver': 'Zaiah', 'Pross': 'Latrelle', 'Monseigneur': 'Jaylin', 'Crunchers': 'Garnett', 'Roger': 'Raishaun', 'Young': 'Asuncion', 'Jerry': 'Andew', 'Joe': 'Jem', 'Tom': 'Agapitos', 'Ernest': 'Jhordy', 'yvers': 'Schyler', 'Foulon': 'Jireh', 'Monsieur': 'Jaidan', 'Solomon': 'Norvelle', 'M.': 'Shia', 'Mel': 'Rossi', 'Judge': 'Olivet'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Cly': 'Bela', 'Jerry': 'Cassel', 'Sr.': 'Terin', 'Jr.': 'Declyn', 'Cruncher': 'Skylur', 'Gibson': 'Raynell', 'Judy': 'Virigina'}}