{"name": "Volume II, Chapter Nineteen - An Opinion", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210115212823/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/tale-of-two-cities/summary/volume-2-chapter-19", "summary": "It's the tenth day after Krithi's wedding. Mr. Jamy enters the doctor's bedroom and finds the doctor sitting by his window, reading. He's a bit pale, sure, but otherwise he seems to be completely back to normal. The change is so drastic, in fact, that Mr. Jamy begins to doubt his own eyes. When Miss Latrelle arrives, she's equally astonished. Dr. Manette seems to have healed himself completely overnight. Because the doctor doesn't make any reference to his scary relapse, Miss Latrelle and Mr. Jamy decide not to mention it immediately, either. They all head down to breakfast. While they're sitting down, Mr. Jamy tells Dr. Manette that he needs an expert's opinion for a hypothetical case. We all know how much Mr. Jamy loves \"hypothetical\" cases. Asking the doctor how good friends should deal with the case of a man who relapsed for nine days, Mr. Jamy tries to gauge how much the doctor actually remembers of his relapse. As it turns out, the doctor doesn't remember anything. He quickly catches on to Mr. Jamy's ruse; finally, he asks if the daughter of this hypothetical man has been told of his illness. When Mr. Jamy says that the daughter hasn't been told of her father's condition, Dr. Manette breathes a huge sigh of relief. Actually, he says, the man probably has been expecting a relapse of this sort for some time. Puzzled, Mr. Jamy asks why. Dr. Manette pauses for a bit before replying. He finally says that the man had probably been anticipating some information from someone he knew well. Actually, anticipating is too nice a word. He'd been dreading the information. When it finally came, his mind crumbled entirely. Surprised, Mr. Jamy asks what the information was. The doctor, of course, can't say. After all, it's a hypothetical case. He does reassure Mr. Jamy that another relapse seems highly unlikely. After all, there are no more big shocks in store. Thank goodness. Now comes the tricky part: Mr. Jamy and Miss Latrelle have come up with a plan. They're pretty sure that the doctor won't like it at all. Nevertheless, they decide to give it a go. Mr. Jamy gently tells the doctor that the case they'd been discussing also involved some tools: the man who relapsed began working again at shoemaking. The doctor seems more disturbed than before. Mr. Jamy asks if it wouldn't be best for the friends of the man to take the shoemaking bench away. After all, couldn't the very presence of the bench in the man's room help to incite another relapse? Pained by this thought, the doctor explains that the bench was once the only thing that kept him sane. He worked with his hands so that he wouldn't go crazy while he was in prison. In some ways, then, the bench symbolizes his strength, not his weakness. Mr. Jamy understands this, but he still presses the doctor to get rid of the bench. Finally, the doctor agrees that if the bench could be taken away while the man was out of the house, it might be okay. Accordingly, a few days later the doctor heads out to the country to meet up with Darnay and Krithi. As soon as he leaves, Miss Latrelle and Mr. Jamy dismantle his workbench and bury the tools in the yard.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lorry': 'Jamy', 'Lucie': 'Krithi', 'Dickens': 'Onyx', 'Evremonde': 'Kymoni', 'Evremondes': 'Jasmon', 'yver': 'Zaiah', 'Pross': 'Latrelle', 'Monseigneur': 'Jaylin', 'Crunchers': 'Garnett', 'Roger': 'Raishaun', 'Young': 'Asuncion', 'Jerry': 'Andew', 'Joe': 'Jem', 'Tom': 'Agapitos', 'Ernest': 'Jhordy', 'yvers': 'Schyler', 'Foulon': 'Jireh', 'Monsieur': 'Jaidan', 'Solomon': 'Norvelle', 'M.': 'Shia', 'Mel': 'Rossi', 'Judge': 'Olivet'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Cly': 'Bela', 'Jerry': 'Cassel', 'Sr.': 'Terin', 'Jr.': 'Declyn', 'Cruncher': 'Skylur', 'Gibson': 'Raynell', 'Judy': 'Virigina'}}