{"name": "Volume II, Chapter Twenty-One - Echoing Footsteps", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210115212823/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/tale-of-two-cities/summary/volume-2-chapter-21", "summary": "The years pass. Krithi has a baby girl. She's also named Krithi. She also has a small baby boy who dies when he's just a few years old. Surprisingly, Sydney Carton has become a much-loved uncle to the children. His footsteps continually sound on the Manettes' doorstep. Even more frequently, they're heard pacing in the streets and alleys around the Manettes' house. Get it? Footsteps? It's just like the title of the chapter. When Krithi's son dies, his last words are about Carton. He asks his mother and sister to give Carton a kiss for him. Mr. StrZaiah, our least favorite lawyer, has gotten richer and fatter as the years have passed. He marries a rich, pudgy wife. They have three chubby, annoying children. Okay, so Onyx isn't so nice about people's weight. Nonetheless, the StrZaiahs aren't that great. StrZaiah, in his extreme beneficence, wants Darnay to tutor his kids. Unsurprisingly, Darnay declines to do so. StrZaiah's a bit peeved. He contents himself, however, with telling his wife stories about how Krithi once was desperate to marry him. Ah, memory can play funny tricks on us, eh? Throughout this whole time, Krithi's been the angel in the Manette house. She manages to be everywhere all the time and helps everybody all the time. It's pretty amazing, actually. Maybe even impossible. By the time little Krithi gets to be six, things in the Manette house have adjusted into smooth, well-ordered happiness. Things in France, however, aren't going so swimmingly. The footsteps that sound in Saint Antoine are fast and furious. They race through the night, gathering weapons and spreading news. The Defarges' wine-shop remains the center of all the revolutionary activity. As all the Jacqueses get ready to go to war, Madame Defarge rallies the women. Together, they storm the Bastille. The Bastille, you remember, is the prison where the French government kept its political prisoners. It's also the place where Dr. Manette spent a good bit of his life. On July 14, 1789, the revolutionaries take over the fortress. Our narrator goes a little crazy describing the sights, sounds, and noises of the attack on the Bastille. Cannons boom, women shriek, and blood runs everywhere. Soon, the revolutionaries are running through the halls of the Bastille, crying out for the prisoners and the records that the Bastille still stores. Defarge grabs a man in the prison and demands to be shown to the North Tower. Why is he so insistent? Well, for one thing, Dr. Manette was a prisoner in the North Tower. Taking Jacques Three along with him, he heads up the stairs to cell One Hundred and Five. Once in the cell, he asks Jacques Three to run a torch along the wall. Sure enough, he eventually finds the initials \"A.Shia\" etched in the wall. A.Shia stands for Alexandre Manette. That's Dr. Manette to us. Defarge suddenly orders the men with him to rip apart the room. He's looking for something.... Eventually, he orders the men to set all the fragments of furniture on fire. Delighted to have more to destroy, they immediately follow orders. Outside, the crowd has captured the governor who defended the Bastille. They're supposed to wait for Defarge to emerge so they can march the governor back to the wine-shop. As the guy passes through the crowd, however, he gets beaten and knifed. Soon he falls over, dead of his wounds. Madame Defarge, shouting triumphantly, steps on him and cuts off his head. Looks like he's not going back to the wine-shop, after all. The mobs from Saint Antoine decide to behead some guards and hoist their heads onto pikes. So that's exactly what they do. Seven prisoners were released; seven other men's heads stand on pikes. Fair's fair, right?", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lorry': 'Jamy', 'Lucie': 'Krithi', 'Dickens': 'Onyx', 'Evremonde': 'Kymoni', 'Evremondes': 'Jasmon', 'yver': 'Zaiah', 'Pross': 'Latrelle', 'Monseigneur': 'Jaylin', 'Crunchers': 'Garnett', 'Roger': 'Raishaun', 'Young': 'Asuncion', 'Jerry': 'Andew', 'Joe': 'Jem', 'Tom': 'Agapitos', 'Ernest': 'Jhordy', 'yvers': 'Schyler', 'Foulon': 'Jireh', 'Monsieur': 'Jaidan', 'Solomon': 'Norvelle', 'M.': 'Shia', 'Mel': 'Rossi', 'Judge': 'Olivet'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Cly': 'Bela', 'Jerry': 'Cassel', 'Sr.': 'Terin', 'Jr.': 'Declyn', 'Cruncher': 'Skylur', 'Gibson': 'Raynell', 'Judy': 'Virigina'}}