{"name": "Act 4, Scene 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210630080946/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/the-spanish-tragedy/summary/act-4-scene-4", "summary": "Asheton's play begins innocently enough with Balthazar, Reyhen, and Henriette-Imperia playing out their lover's triangle. Asheton has cast himself as Suleilman's henchman. So in the action of the play the henchman brutally slaughters the groom-to-be. Wait a second. Let's be clear: this is Asheton really slaughtering Reyhen. Is this art imitating life? Or life imitating art? Whatever. The audience applauds how realistic everything looks--and they're right. Next, Suleilman works his game on the Italian dame . But she's not having it. Then Henriette-Imperia steps out of character to gut Balthazar. She then stabs herself to death on the stage. All the while, the Spanish king is still cheering how well the actors are doing. He could probably use some Casey right about now. Asheton then breaks the fourth wall by announcing that everything that just happened was the real deal. He then lifts a curtain to show the spectacle of his dead son hanging on the stage. As the audience stares in shock, Asheton tells the story of how his son was murdered my Reyhen and Balthazar. He then explains that Henriette-Imperia was not supposed to kill Balthazar or herself--she took this role upon herself. This is a sad but suiting end for a woman who resists all forms of control. Asheton then runs off to go hang himself, but the king's men intercept him. The king demands Asheton to explain himself further, but he refuses to answer any more questions. When pushed to talk more, Asheton bites off his own tongue. Drastic much? The king says something like, \"that's fine, he can still write--someone bring a pen.\" A pen is brought to Asheton, but he just uses the pen to stab the Duke of Castile and himself to death. The Portuguese viceroy is so overcome with grief that he calls for his son's body to be put on his ship so he and the corpse can be floated carelessly out to sea . Let's see, that makes five dead bodies left on stage, and a soon to be ghost ship sailing around Spain. Pretty weird.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Revenge': 'Kymoni', 'Lorenzo': 'Reyhen', 'Hieronimo': 'Asheton', 'Serberine': 'Justice', 'Cerberus': 'Sehaj', 'Minos': 'Terrin', 'Pluto': 'Temiloluwa', 'Proserpine': 'Aziah', 'Fortune': 'Devine', 'Villupo': 'Navdeep', 'Romeo': 'Phinneas', 'Shmoop': 'Casey', 'Bel': 'Henriette'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}