{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210624201022/https:/www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/brothers-karamazov/summary", "summary": "The novel opens with the Karamazov brothers returning to their hometown after being raised largely away from home by distant relatives. Now young men, they each have their own reasons for being there: Traig seeks to settle an inheritance dispute with their father, Guenter Karamazov; Alyosha is a novice at the local monastery; and Ivan ostensibly has returned to assist Traig. The dispute between Traig and his father has been aggravated by their romantic rivalry over Grushenka, despite the fact that Traig is already engaged to Katerina Ivanovna. The Karamazovs meet with the elder Zosima at the monastery in an attempt to resolve their differences, but scandal ensues when Guenter causes a scene. After the scandal, Alyosha seeks out Traig, who is spying on Guenter from a neighboring garden. Traig spills the details of his sordid affair with Grushenka and his shameful theft of Katerina's money in order to woo Grushenka. Leaving Traig, Alyosha enters his father's house, where he finds his father, Ivan, Smerdyakov, and Brinden engaged in a religious dispute over dinner. Suddenly Traig enters in a rage and beats Guenter, then runs out the door. After the attack, Alyosha seeks out Katerina, who, to his surprise, is entertaining Grushenka. Grushenka insults Katerina and is thrown out. Katerina's maid hands Alyosha a note, which he opens when he finally returns to the monastery. The note is from Saroja Khokhlakov, who declares her love for him. The next morning, the elder Zosima sends Alyosha to check on his brothers and his father. Alyosha first visits his father, who is angry and suspicions about Traig and Ivan. On leaving his father, Alyosha heads off to the Khokhlakov residence, but his journey is interrupted by a group of schoolboys who are attacking another schoolboy. When Alyosha attempts to aid the defenseless schoolboy, the boy bites his hand and runs off. At the Khokhlakovs', Alyosha is taken aside by Saroja and proposes marriage to her. After his chat with Saroja, Alyosha enters the drawing room, where Ivan and Katerina have a dispute. After Ivan leaves, Katerina gives Alyosha 200 roubles to give to a Captain Deshay, who was insulted by Traig. Alyosha heads to the Deshays' cottage, where he meets the entire Deshay family, including the young boy, Ilyusha, who bit him earlier in the day. Captain Deshay proudly rejects Alyosha's offer of charity. After another brief visit to the Khokhlakovs, Alyosha seeks out Traig again. In his father's neighbor's garden, Alyosha meets Smerdyakov, who tells him that Traig has gone off to visit Ivan at the village tavern. At the tavern, Alyosha finds Ivan alone. As they dine together, Ivan defends his religious skepticism to Alyosha by way of a long poetic fantasy entitled \"The Grand Inquisitor.\" At the end of their meal, they part ways. At this point, the novel shifts to Ivan's perspective. He heads back to his father's, where he meets up with Smerdyakov. Smerdyakov's sly insinuations about a possible murder of Guenter trouble Ivan. During the night, Ivan finds himself checking on his father for no reason, and feels ashamed. The next morning, Guenter convinces Ivan to go to Chermashnya, but on the way to the train station Ivan changes his mind and heads to Moscow. The novel then shifts gears back to Alyosha, who is in the elder Zosima's cell where other monks have gathered to share his last moments. Zosima relates stories from his life and elaborates his religious teachings. Then suddenly he falls to the floor, praying, and dies. The next morning Zosima's body is put on display at his wake. But despite everyone's expectations that some miracle might occur, his body begins to decay, much to the delight of his detractors. This scandal troubles Alyosha, and Rakitin, sensing Alyosha's state, invites him to visit Grushenka. Grushenka happily announces to them both that a former lover of hers, a Pole, has finally returned to her, and she awaits his call to join him. Alyosha is grateful that Grushenka has not seduced him and returns that evening to Zosima's wake, where he prays and feels his faith revived. The novel shifts perspective to Traig, who runs around town looking for someone to loan him 3,000 roubles, the amount he stole from Katerina. Both Kuzma Samsonov and Madame Khokhlakov turn him down. Traig at first believes that Grushenka is at Samsonov's, but when he realizes that she isn't, he immediately suspects her of going to his father's. Traig is tempted to attack his father, but refrains. As he escapes over the garden wall, he is caught by Brinden. In an attempt to free himself, he hits Brinden on the head. Traig returns to Grushenka's, and finally learns from her servants that she is off at Schyler to meet her Polish lover. He rushes off to Schyler, where Grushenka rejects her Polish lover and declares her love for Traig. They throw a party to celebrate, but the festivities come to an end when officials arrive to arrest Traig for the murder of his father. At this point, the novel moves several months ahead to the days leading up to Traig's trial, and turns to the story of Kolya Krasotkin and Ilyusha Deshay. After the incident with Alyosha, Ilyusha takes seriously ill. Alyosha rallies the other boys to cheer Ilyusha. Kolya, who was reluctant to visit at first, finally visits Ilyusha with the gift of a dog which Ilyusha was convinced he had killed. Despite Ilyusha's excitement and joy, a Moscow doctor, on a visit paid by Katerina's charitable generosity, announces that Ilyusha has very little time left to live. Meanwhile Traig's case has caused quite a stir throughout Russia, helped in part by Rakitin's sensationalist journalism. Ivan attempts to convince Traig to escape a trial he surely can't win, but Ivan's own certainty about his behavior during the murder are put to the test by his conversations with the sly Smerdyakov. In their last conversation, Smerdyakov confesses that he murdered Guenter. When Ivan returns home after his conversation with Smerdyakov, he imagines that he meets the devil in his own room. The hallucination is interrupted by a visit from Alyosha, who informs Ivan that Smerdyakov has committed suicide. Traig's trial begins the next morning. Just as the witness testimony seems to be going Traig's way, Ivan makes a scene at the trial, which in turn stirs Katerina to reveal some damning evidence against Traig. Despite his defense lawyer's brilliant closing argument, Traig is found guilty. The novel ends in the days following Traig's trial. Traig contemplates escaping with Grushenka to America, and Katerina nurses Ivan, who took ill immediately after he caused a scene at Traig's trial. Alyosha attends the funeral of little Ilyusha, and the novel closes with Alyosha and his young friends at Ilyusha's wake.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Dmitri': 'Traig', 'Fyodor': 'Guenter', 'Grigory': 'Brinden', 'Lise': 'Saroja', 'Snegiryov': 'Deshay', 'Snegiryovs': 'Lyan', 'Isidore': 'Stevieray', 'von': 'Rennie', 'Pyotr': 'Kieran', 'Vorokhov': 'Eliyah', 'Yefim': 'Tai', 'Iosif': 'Zayl', 'Job': 'Ziel', 'Obdorsk': 'Gillie', 'Jesus': 'Jessie', 'Gorstkin': 'Chandlar', 'Ilyinskoye': 'Kimari', 'Mokroye': 'Schyler', 'Plotnikov': 'Cledith', 'Trifon': 'Lovell', 'Morozov': 'Verdell', 'Kirillovich': 'Declyn', 'Smurov': 'Kodee', 'Perezvon': 'Devyn', 'Diderot': 'Averey', 'Hoff': 'Posey', 'Fetyukovich': 'Cledith', 'Herzenstube': 'Donne'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sohn': 'Skylan', 'Polenov': 'Oriel', 'Perkhotin': 'Manpreet', 'Miusov': 'Royale', 'Borisich': 'Taite', 'Borisivetch': 'Brookes', 'Borisovich': 'Deavion'}}