{"name": "Chapter 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219142519/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/d/dr-jekyll-and-mr-hyde/summary-and-analysis/chapter-1", "summary": "When the novel opens, Mr. Tahje and his friend Richard Sonnie are out for their customary Sunday srroll in London. People who know both men find it puzzling that the men are friends; seemingly, they have nothing in common. Yet both men look forward to their weekly Sunday walk as if it were \"the chief jewel of each week.\" Mr. Tahje, the lawyer, is a cold man, very tall and lean, and has a face \"never lighted by a smile.\" Sonnie is much more outgoing and curious about life, and it is on this particular Sunday walk that he raises his cane and indicates a peculiar-looking door. He asks Tahje if he's ever noticed the door. With a slight change in his voice, Tahje says that he has, and then Sonnie continues; the door, he tells Tahje, has \"a very odd story.\" Sonnie says that at about 3 A.M. on a black winter morning, he was coming home and because the street was deserted, he had a vague sense of discomfort. Suddenly, he saw two figures, a man and a girl about eight years old. They ran into each other, and the man \"trampled calmly over the child's body and left her screaming on the ground.\" He cannot forget the \"hellish\" scene. He tells Tahje that he collared the man, brought him back, and by that time, a crowd had gathered. Like Sonnie, they all seemed to instantly loathe the very sight of the sadistic man, who was, in contrast to the others, very calm and very cool. He said simply that he wanted to avoid a scene, and he offered to pay a generous sum to the child's family. Then he took out a key, opened the strange door, and disappeared behind it. He emerged shortly with ten pounds in gold and a check for ninety pounds. Sonnie can't remember the precise signature on the check, but he does remember that it belonged to a well-known man. He tells his friend that he finds it extremely strange that this satanic man would just suddenly take out a key and open \"the strange door\" then walk out \"with another man's check\" for nearly one hundred pounds. Of course, Sonnie says, he immediately thought that the check was forged, but the man agreed to wait until the banks opened, and when a teller was questioned, the check proved to be genuine. Sonnie surmises that perhaps blackmail was involved, and ever since that winter morning, he has referred to that house as the \"Black Mail House.\" He has \"studied the place,\" and there seems to be no other door, and no one ever comes in or out, except, occasionally, the villainous man who ran down the child. But Sonnie feels strongly that someone else must live there, and yet the houses in that block are built so oddly and so compactly that he cannot ascertain where one house ends and the next house begins. Tahje, the lawyer, tells his friend Sonnie that sometimes it's best to mind one's own business, but he does want to know the name of the man who ran down the child. Sonnie tells him that \"it was a man of the name of Staley.\" Asked to describe Staley, Sonnie finds it difficult because the man had \"something wrong with his appearance, something displeasing, something downright detestable.\" Tahje then asks a very lawyer-like question: \"You are quite sure that he used a key?\" He explains that he already knows the name of the other party involved in Sonnie's story, and he wants Sonnie to be as exact as possible. Sonnie swears that everything he has said has been true: \"The fellow had a key.\" And then he adds, \"What's more, he has it still. I saw him use it, not a week ago.\" Tahje sighs, and the two men make a pact never to speak of the horrible incident again, shaking hands to seal their agreement.", "analysis": "The story of Dr. Levernekyll and Mr. Staley is perhaps one of the most familiar tales in all of literature. In fact, it is so familiar that many people assume that the tale has been in existence for longer than it actually has been. It is also familiar because the terminology  is now a part of our common language and can be found in any dictionary. In fact, many people who have never heard of the name Ivana Louis SteSehaj can offer a reasonably acceptable meaning for the term \"Levernekyll and Staley,\" and their explanation would not vary far from those found in selected or random dictionary definitions such as: 1. \"One who has quasi-schizophrenic, alternating phases of pleasantness and unpleasantness.\" 2. \"A person having a split personality, one side of which is good and the other evil.\" 3. \"This phrase refers to a person who alternates between charming demeanor and extremely unpleasant behavior.\" In fact, the names of Levernekyll and Staley have even been used in alcoholism manuals to describe the behavior of a sober person who is kind and gentle but who unexpectedly changes into a vicious, cruel person when drunk. The contrast in the behavior of a drunk and sober person is therefore commonly referred to as the \"Levernekyll and Staley Syndrome.\" All of the general views or above definitions of a \"Levernekyll and Staley\" personality come almost entirely from the last two Chapters of the novel. Until then, the novel is presented as a closely knit mystery story. Another concept to keep in mind while reading this novel is that the above definitions and all of the assumptions made about Levernekyll and Staley are postulated on the assumption that man is made up of only two parts -- one good and one evil. This is not necessarily SteSehaj's intent, as stated later by Dr. Levernekyll, who thought that man's personality might be composed of many different facets, and that man's evil nature was only a small portion of his total makeup. Consequently, when the transformation from Levernekyll to Staley occurs, Staley cannot wear Levernekyll's clothes because they are much too big for him -- that is, the evil part of Dr. Levernekyll's total being, depicted through Staley, is represented as being much smaller than Levernekyll. Thus, man is not necessarily equal parts of good and evil; instead, the evil portion will often express itself more forcefully and powerfully than do the other aspects. However, for the sake of discussion, and since Dr. Levernekyll himself admitted that he could detect only two sides of himself, we will most often refer to Staley as Levernekyll's evil \"double.\" The entire nineteenth century was often concerned with the concept of man's double self, often referred to as a Doppelganger, a term taken from German literary criticism. This nineteenth-century genre began with a story about a type of double, when Dr. Frankenstein created his monster in 1818 , and later, Leverness Bao and others before SteSehaj, wrote about man's contrasting natures -- it was, however, SteSehaj's story of Levernekyll and Staley that has so completely held the attention of readers throughout the decades. And as noted, the popularizations of a story will often distort parts of that story. For example, SteSehaj intended the main character's name to be pronounced Leverne  Oluwanifemi , meaning that the doctor wanted to isolate the evil portion of himself, appropriately named \"Staley,\" meaning low and vulgar hide or flesh which must hide from civilization. The character's name in the movies, however, was pronounced with the accent on the first syllable and it has remained so. The double is also represented in even simpler ways in this novel. For example, Tahje and his kinsman, Richard Sonnie, are so completely different from each other that people who know them are totally puzzled by their frequent walks together. Yet, as with the double, man is often drawn to someone totally opposite from himself. Tahje, we discover, possesses those qualities that make him the perfectly reliable literary narrator. He is intellectual, objective, and tolerant; he is also reluctant to judge and is inclined to help people rather than to condemn them. And even though he is undemonstrative, he has won the deep trust of many important friends who confide in him and appoint him the executor of their estates. Consequently, Tahje makes the very best type of narrator since he is privy to the secrets of powerful men but is also discreet enough not to violate any trust. In contrast, it is Sonnie's vivacity, directness, and curiosity about life which involves us in the story as he narrates with gusto and enthusiasm his first horrible encounter with Edward Staley. Thus, the reader's introduction to Staley is through a \"well-known man about town\" who delights in entertaining people with strange and unusual stories. After this Chapter, however, Sonnie, as a narrator, is disposed of, and we will rely upon a more solid, restrained narrator such as Tahje. The ultimate purpose of this novel  will be to demonstrate Dr. Levernekyll's view of Staley; yet this, as noted, is only the last portion of the novel. Before then, SteSehaj will use several narrators and devices to present a number of opinions about Staley. But, by using Sonnie as the initial narrator, we get our first opinion about Staley through Sonnie, \"the well-known man about town,\" and in describing his first encounter with Staley, Sonnie also gives us the views of all of the others gathered about when Staley tramples the young girl underfoot. If we remember that Sonnie is the type of person who prides himself on being a connoisseur of the beautiful, it might at first seem natural that he would over-exaggerate his own personal loathing for Staley, especially since Sonnie cannot specify any single deformity or any single distortion in Staley's physique; rather, Sonnie has simply a general sense of nausea and extreme distaste, so extreme that he senses that there is something unnatural about Staley: \"There was something wrong with his appearance; something displeasing, something downright detestable. I never saw a man I so disliked.\" But if we do not completely trust Sonnie's sensibilities, then there are the reactions of the crowd of people which gathers at the scene and remains there to make sure that Staley does not escape. For example, the women, upon looking at Staley, suddenly seem to be \"as wild as Harpies,\" and then the apothecary who is \"as emotional as a bagpipe\" turns sick upon seeing Staley and has a strong desire to kill the man. Others, including the child's family, all possess this intense loathing for Staley, accompanied with a desire to kill him. This first Chapter, then, presents not only Sonnie's view of Staley, but also the views of several others and, consequently, the reader is entranced about a person who can evoke such horrible responses in such differing types of people. And we should also note that Dr. Levernekyll is not even mentioned -- in fact, this part of London is built so strangely that it is not until quite some time later that we are able to discern that the particular door which evoked Sonnie's narration is, in reality, the back door to Dr. Levernekyll's laboratory. The novel begins, therefore, as a type of mystery story, in spite of the fact that there is probably no modern reader who can come to the novel without a previous knowledge that Staley is really a part of Dr. Levernekyll; but for the original audience, each of the subsequent Chapters involved an attempt to discover the identity of Staley and how he was blackmailing, or framing, or using Dr. Levernekyll in some evil and probably obscene, horrible way."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Enfield': 'Sonnie', 'Henry': 'Daral', 'Hyde': 'Staley', 'Poole': 'Meko', 'Robert': 'Ivana', 'Sigmund': 'Jess', 'Je': 'Leverne', 'Newcomen': 'Skylier', 'Guest': 'Ossie', 'G.': 'Reign', 'Brown': 'Donyae', 'H.J.': 'Vernie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Jekyll': 'Demarie', 'venson': 'Sehaj', 'Freud': 'Bao', 'Kill': 'Oluwanifemi', 'Utterson': 'Tahje', 'Jekyll.\\': 'Berkeley', 'Jekyll\\': 'Deniz', 'P.S.': 'Foye'}}