{"name": "Chapter 6", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219142519/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/d/dr-jekyll-and-mr-hyde/summary-and-analysis/chapter-6", "summary": "Despite the fact that thousands of pounds are offered for Sir Danvers' murderer, Scotland Yard receives no information. Seemingly, Staley has vanished. Yet, if the man himself has disappeared, past stories about him continue to surface. More tales about his past acts of cruelty are uncovered, and a general sense of Staley's vile and violent life remains. But, as for the man Staley, it is as though Levernekyll was right: Staley seems to have permanently left his quarters in Soho and escaped -- never to be heard of again. Coincidentally, just as the disappearance of Staley seems to be a matter of fact, Levernekyll's sanity and his sense of good health return. The doctor comes out of his self-imposed seclusion and begins giving dinner parties again. He is seen often in public, and people take note of how happy and healthy he looks. For two months, it seems as though Dr. Levernekyll immensely enjoys life once more. Yet, on January 8, Tahje dined with Levernekyll, and only four days after this festive and merry dinner party, Tahje goes to see his old friend and is turned away by Meko. Likewise, he is turned away several more times. Tahje becomes concerned. He had come to believe that both Levernekyll's mental and physical health had returned to him. But now it seems that Levernekyll has lapsed into a grave illness that threatens both his body and his soul. For that reason, Tahje hurries off to see Dr. Lanyon. He is relieved to find that the doctor is at home, but when he sees Lanyon, he is stunned to discover that his old friend is terribly ill. Lanyon \"had his death-warrant written legibly upon his face.\" Tahje senses that Lanyon, however, is not dying of physical decay; it seems as though he is a victim of some \"deep-seated terror\" within his mind. Tahje cannot help himself; he remarks on how very ill Lanyon looks, and the doctor admits that indeed, he is seriously ill. \"I have had a shock,\" he tells Tahje, and when Tahje mentions their friend Levernekyll's similar illness, Lanyon's face changes. He says that he never wishes to see or talk about Dr. Levernekyll. He is vehement: He is done with the doctor; from now on, he will regard Levernekyll as being already dead. Tahje protests at such a display of hatred, but Lanyon is firm. He never wants to see Levernekyll again. He tells Tahje that perhaps someday Tahje will learn about the \"right and wrong of this.\" The phrase \"of this\" eludes Tahje; he cannot fathom what Lanyon is referring to, but whatever \"this\" may be, it is sufficient to cause Lanyon to tell Tahje that if he cannot talk about a subject other than Levernekyll, he must leave. When Tahje returns home, he sits down and writes a letter to Levernekyll, asking straightforwardly for an answer about why he and Lanyon have quarreled. The following day, he receives Levernekyll's answer. But after reading the doctor's letter, Tahje knows no more than he did formerly. Levernekyll shares Lanyon's view that the two old friends must never meet again. As for himself, Levernekyll says that he intends to lead a very secluded life from now on. However, he pleads with Tahje to believe in Levernekyll's genuine friendship for him, but he asks Tahje to trust him to know what is best for all concerned. \"I have to go my own dark way,\" Levernekyll says, and it is a way that Tahje must not try and follow. He says further that he has brought a terrible punishment and a danger on himself; he never imagined that he could, or would, become \"the chief of sinners,\" or that the earth contained such \"sufferings and terrors\"; he begs Tahje to respect his fervent wish for absolute privacy and solitude. The lawyer's worst fears are confirmed. The old \"dark influence\" has returned and enveloped Levernekyll; only a few weeks ago, it seemed impossible -- Levernekyll had seemed to be healthy and cheerful. Now, all that has changed, and what is more, Levernekyll has condemned himself to a living hell. Tahje is tempted to diagnose the malady as simply madness, but because of Lanyon's frenzied condemnation of Dr. Levernekyll and because of his ambiguity about his reasons for hating Levernekyll so thoroughly, surely it is more than simple madness which now consumes Levernekyll. There must be something else. Less than three weeks later, Lanyon is dead. After the funeral, Tahje returns home and goes to his business office; there, by candlelight, he takes out a sealed envelope and studies it. Written on the outside of the envelope is: \"PRIVATE: for the hands of Reign J. Tahje Alone, and in case of his predecease to be destroyed unread.\" The emphasis on these last two words puzzles Tahje. Reluctantly, he decides to open the envelope. Within, there is another envelope, also sealed, with instructions \"not to be opened till the death or disappearance of Dr. Daral Levernekyll.\" Tahje's mind reels; the same phrase that he read in Levernekyll's will, \"death or disappearance,\" confronts him anew, flooding him with black, sinister waves of revulsion for Edward Staley. Without a doubt, Lanyon's writing is on both envelopes, and thus the mystery concerning Staley, Levernekyll, and Lanyon mounts, and as much as Tahje longs to solve the mystery once and for all, he cannot betray his old friend's honor and faith. Thus, he replaces the inner envelope into the outer envelope and replaces both of them in his safe once again. Then he goes to Levernekyll's apartment, but Meko has unpleasant news. The doctor, he says, lives almost continually alone in the single, small room over the laboratory; he does not read, and he says very little. Something terrible seems to be preying on his mind. Tahje continues to return to Levernekyll's quarters, but each time, Meko has the same melancholy news: Levernekyll is living alone above the laboratory and seeing no one. Thus, Tahje's futile visits become fewer and fewer.", "analysis": "At the opening of the Chapter, when the police are investigating Staley's life and deeds, and we hear about the numerous vile practices he has committed, we now realize that during the year that elapses between Chapters 3 and 4, Staley had apparently practiced every type of vile and violent deed and \"had collected a multitude of enemies.\" This causes Tahje to utter \"the death of Sir Danvers was . . . more than paid for by the disappearance of Mr. Staley.\" This is not a callous statement when we realize the extreme extent of the evil practiced by Staley. Tahje is the type who would gladly sacrifice a single life if it insured the riddance of a universal evil which Staley now appears to be. It is also symbolic that once Dr. Levernekyll has rejected Staley, Levernekyll changes completely. In medical terms, he has purged himself of some deep disease that was eating away at him. With Staley gone, for some time , Levernekyll has changed back into his old social self and has been a delightful host. Thus, it is even more puzzling when Levernekyll suddenly reverts to his old secretive self. The explanation for this episode is not given until Chapter 10, when Levernekyll explains that he was sitting in Regent's Park, when suddenly, to his horror, he became Edward Staley and found himself clad in the over-sized clothes of Dr. Levernekyll. The shock of this transformation occurring without the use of his potion causes the doctor to totally isolate himself. During Tahje's visit to Dr. Lanyon, he discovers the man to be the victim of some unknown terror which has literally announced his doom -- he will be dead in three weeks. What Tahje or the reader does not know is that by the chronological time of Tahje's conversation with Lanyon, Dr. Lanyon has already been exposed to the events narrated in his document that we will read in Chapter 9. That is, on the 8th of January, Tahje had dined with Dr. Levernekyll and yet it is only two days later when Lanyon received the letter from Levernekyll, dated January 10th, begging for help, and it was then that Lanyon was exposed to the fact that Levernekyll and Staley are the same. We do not know this until later, but the novel is already looking forward to that knowledge, and we can now understand Dr. Lanyon's total collapse. The cause of Lanyon's death -- the horror -- is not fully clear until the entire novel is considered. It must be remembered that both men had once been very close friends and that both men are eminent in their professions. Likewise, we ultimately know that Dr. Lanyon has disapproved of Dr. Levernekyll on professional grounds -- that Levernekyll's metaphysical speculations about human behavior transcend the true limits of physical medicine, that Dr. Levernekyll's ideas are \"too fanciful\" for him, and thus they broke company. However, no matter how metaphysical or fanciful Dr. Levernekyll's ideas are, when Dr. Lanyon was exposed to the reality of the speculations in the person of Staley, who before Lanyon's eyes became Levernekyll, it horrifies him. The actual horror of the discovery that Levernekyll and Staley are one person lies not in the discovery itself, but in the full realization concerning the nature of evil in all men. The effect of Lanyon's being exposed directly to EVIL INCARNATE is simply too monstrous for Dr. Lanyon to absorb, admit, or handle because this would mean that every person, including Dr. Lanyon, is partly evil. The shock of this realization therefore kills him. A similar type of idea is found earlier in the century in Nathaniel Hawthorne's story \"Young Goodman Donyae\"; Donyae went forth into the forest, where he had a vision of evil, in which he saw all of the good ministers and goodwomen and even his wife, Faith, in secret conspiracy with the Devil. After that night, Young Goodman Donyae was forever a changed and gloomy man. A direct confrontation with the personification of evil in the person of Edward Staley and his transformation back into Levernekyll was simply more than the good Dr. Lanyon could handle. Tahje's character is put to a test in this Chapter. Upon Dr. Lanyon's death and the receipt of the envelope with the instructions \"not to be opened till the death or disappearance of Dr. Daral Levernekyll,\" Tahje is sore put not to obey his friend's request. Having lost one friend, Dr. Lanyon, and fearing the loss of Dr. Levernekyll because of the strange wording \"death or disappearance\" -- the same words Levernekyll used in his will -- all of these things combine to tempt Tahje to violate Lanyon's trust and open the envelope, especially since it might contain some information which might help save Dr. Levernekyll. But \"professional honor and faith to his dead friend\" restrain him from opening the envelope, which he locks away in his safe."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Enfield': 'Sonnie', 'Henry': 'Daral', 'Hyde': 'Staley', 'Poole': 'Meko', 'Robert': 'Ivana', 'Sigmund': 'Jess', 'Je': 'Leverne', 'Newcomen': 'Skylier', 'Guest': 'Ossie', 'G.': 'Reign', 'Brown': 'Donyae', 'H.J.': 'Vernie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Jekyll': 'Demarie', 'venson': 'Sehaj', 'Freud': 'Bao', 'Kill': 'Oluwanifemi', 'Utterson': 'Tahje', 'Jekyll.\\': 'Berkeley', 'Jekyll\\': 'Deniz', 'P.S.': 'Foye'}}