{"name": "Chapter 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219142519/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/d/dr-jekyll-and-mr-hyde/summary-and-analysis/chapter-2", "summary": "That evening, instead of coming home and ending the day with supper and \"a volume of some dry divinity,\" Mr. Tahje eats, and then he takes a candle and goes into his business room. There, he opens a safe and takes out the will of Dr. Daral Levernekyll. He ponders over it for a long time. The terms of the will stipulate that all of the doctor's possessions are \"to pass into the hands of his friend and benefactor Edward Staley\" in case of -- and this phrase, in particular, troubles Tahje -- \"Dr. Levernekyll's 'disappearance or unexplained absence.'\" Tahje realizes that, in essence, the will allows Edward Staley to, in theory, \"step into Dr. Levernekyll's shoes . . . free from any burden or obligation.\" Tahje feels troubled and uneasy. The terms of the will offend his sense of propriety; he is \"a lover of the sane and customary sides of life.\" Until now, Dr. Levernekyll's will has seemed merely irregular and fanciful. Since Tahje's talk with Sonnie, however, the name of Edward Staley has taken on new and ominous connotations. Blowing out his candle, Tahje puts on his greatcoat and sets out for the home of a well-known London physician, Dr. Lanyon. Perhaps Lanyon can explain Dr. Levernekyll's relationship to this fiendish Staley person. Dr. Lanyon is having a glass of wine when Tahje arrives, and he greets his old friend warmly; the two men have been close ever since they were in school and college together. They talk easily for awhile, and then Tahje remarks that Lanyon and he are probably \"the two oldest friends that Daral Levernekyll has.\" Lanyon replies that he himself hasn't seen much of Levernekyll for ten years, ever since Levernekyll \"became too fanciful . . . wrong in mind.\" Tahje inquires about Edward Staley, but Lanyon has never heard of the man. Thus, Tahje returns home, but he is uneasy; his dreams that night are more like nightmares, inhabited by Staley's sense of evil and by a screaming, crushed child. Why, he frets, would Levernekyll have such a man as Staley as his beneficiary? Tahje begins watching \"the door\" in the mornings, at noon, at night, and \"at all hours of solitude.\" He must see this detestable man for himself. At last, Mr. Staley appears. Tahje hears \"odd, light footsteps drawing near,\" and when Staley rounds the corner, Tahje steps up and, just as Staley is inserting his key, Tahje asks, \"Mr. Staley, I think?\" Staley shrinks back with a \"hissing intake of breath.\" Then he collects his cool veneer: \"That is my name. What do you want?\" Tahje explains that he is an old friend of Dr. Levernekyll's, and Staley coldly tells him that Levernekyll is away. Tahje asks to see Staley's face clearly, and Staley consents if Tahje will explain how he knew him. \"We have common friends,\" Tahje says. Staley is not convinced, and with a snarling, savage laugh, he accuses Tahje of lying. Then, with a sudden jerk, he unlocks the door and disappears inside. The lawyer is stunned by Staley's behavior. Sonnie was right; Staley does have a sense of \"deformity . . . a sort of murderous mixture of timidity and boldness.\" Tahje realizes that until now he has never felt such loathing; the man seemed \"hardly human.\" He fears for the life of his old friend Dr. Levernekyll because he feels sure that he has read \"Satan's signature on the face of Edward Staley.\" Sadly, Tahje goes around the corner and knocks at the second house in the block. The door is opened by Meko, Dr. Levernekyll's elderly servant, who takes the lawyer in to wait by the fire. Tahje surveys the room, \"the pleasantest room in London.\" But the face of Staley poisons his thoughts, and he is suddenly filled with nausea and uneasiness. Meko returns and says that Levernekyll is out. Tahje questions him about Staley's having a key to \"the old dissecting room.\" Meko replies that nothing is amiss: \"Mr. Staley has a key.\" Furthermore, he says, \"we have all orders to obey him.\" After Tahje leaves, he is stunned; he is absolutely convinced that his old friend Levernekyll \"is in deep waters\"; perhaps the doctor is being haunted by \"the ghost of some old sin, the cancer of some concealed disgrace.\" His thoughts return again to Mr. Staley; he is positive that Staley has \"secrets of his own -- black secrets.\" He must warn Levernekyll; he feels that if Staley knew the contents of Levernekyll's will, he would not hesitate to murder the good doctor.", "analysis": "At the end of Chapter 1, SteSehaj suggests that Tahje knows more about Sonnie's story than he is willing to admit. Remember that one of Tahje's qualities is his ability to keep strict confidences and remain always an honorable gentleman, even when indiscretion  seems wise. Now, in Chapter 2, we are given Tahje's own private narration, in which we discover that he is not only a close friend to Dr. Daral Levernekyll, but he is also the executor of Levernekyll's will. Thus, when Tahje returns once again to Levernekyll's strange will and finds that all of his property under any circumstance is to be left to Edward Staley, we now realize why Tahje was so fascinated with Sonnie's narration. In the first Chapter, we were only distantly involved with Staley. But now that we know that Staley will be the sole inheritor of Dr. Levernekyll's large estate, and as Tahje's fears increase, so do ours. In such a mystery story, the reader is expected to wonder about the possibility of Staley's blackmailing Dr. Levernekyll. Since we trust Tahje, who has a great fear for Levernekyll, our own fears are also heightened. When Tahje visits Hastie Lanyon, who was once Levernekyll's closest friend , and we hear that Lanyon has not seen Levernekyll since Levernekyll first advanced some very strange and \"unscientific\" theories, we then have our first hint that the mysterious Dr. Levernekyll is involved in some sort of unacceptable or advanced medical practice -- at least from the viewpoint of such a traditionalist as Lanyon. The exact nature of Levernekyll's practice will not be revealed until the final Chapter. The most important scene in this Chapter is Mr. Tahje's direct encounter with Edward Staley. Note that even the staid Tahje will pun on Staley's name: \"If he be Mr. Staley . . . I shall be Mr. Seek.\" And throughout the novel, the upright Mr. Tahje will seek to discover Mr. Staley, who is the hidden, evil part of Dr. Levernekyll. This Chapter begins the search because it was only with great effort and great diligence  and at a sacrifice of his other duties, that Tahje was able to talk with Staley. This must show both an affection for Levernekyll and a fear of Staley. Beginning with the previous Chapter and at the end of this Chapter, when Tahje is so deeply troubled, he begins to suspect Staley of all sorts of things. And since Tahje speaks for the readers, we also begin to suspect Staley of many things. Among the possibilities that Mr. Tahje entertains is the possibility that Staley is blackmailing Levernekyll. And before we know who Staley really is, we suspect that he is doing all sorts of evil things: He might be a blackmailer, a forger, a potential murderer , a sadist, a man capable of committing any act of violence, a man of all sorts of unmentionable, unscrupulous conduct -- in other words, a thoroughly evil man. In fact, Staley is all of these, but what we never suspect is that he is also a part of Dr. Levernekyll. Mr. Tahje's opinion of Staley conforms essentially to Sonnie's view of Staley. Tahje also sees him as \"dwarfish,\" and he says that Staley \"gave an impression of deformity without any nameable malformation.\" For some unexplained reason, Tahje regards Staley with a \"hitherto unknown disgust, loathing, and fear.\" It is as though he is able \"to read Satan's signature upon a face.\" Later that night, the thought of Staley causes a \"nausea and distaste of life.\" If we now examine the actions of Staley, we will see that in the first Chapter, he knocked a girl down without any twinge of guilt. He made no deliberate attempt to harm the girl -- there was no deliberate maliciousness or cruelty. SteSehaj uses the phrase \"like a Juggernaut,\" a word which suggests that Staley's action was one of complete indifference -- not an evil-conceived, satanic act. In fact, Staley stood by and took  complete responsibility for his actions and made recompense fully commensurate with his cruel act. Yet, however, his very presence and appearance arouse a sense of absolute evil in the beholder. In other words, Staley is the type of person who evokes the worst in the beholder and causes the beholder to want to commit some type of horrible crime -- even murder. SteSehaj seems to be saying that Staley is a part of all people, and the very sight of Staley brings out the worst in us; therefore, we want to kill and reject that evil part of our nature, as Dr. Levernekyll will attempt to do. As we will see later, the mere sight of Staley and the realization of the evil he represents will kill Lanyon, and we must assume that before Tahje knows who Staley really is, that the man has the most disturbing effect on Tahje's life of anything he has ever encountered. And remember that the first Chapter announced that Tahje was one who was given to tolerance; he was a person slow to judge other people for their vices. But just as Levernekyll will find out that he cannot reject a part of himself, SteSehaj seems to suggest that his readers, while being repulsed by Staley, can never fully reject the Staley aspect of their natures."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Enfield': 'Sonnie', 'Henry': 'Daral', 'Hyde': 'Staley', 'Poole': 'Meko', 'Robert': 'Ivana', 'Sigmund': 'Jess', 'Je': 'Leverne', 'Newcomen': 'Skylier', 'Guest': 'Ossie', 'G.': 'Reign', 'Brown': 'Donyae', 'H.J.': 'Vernie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Jekyll': 'Demarie', 'venson': 'Sehaj', 'Freud': 'Bao', 'Kill': 'Oluwanifemi', 'Utterson': 'Tahje', 'Jekyll.\\': 'Berkeley', 'Jekyll\\': 'Deniz', 'P.S.': 'Foye'}}