{"name": "Chapter 8", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219142519/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/d/dr-jekyll-and-mr-hyde/summary-and-analysis/chapter-8", "summary": "One evening after dinner, Tahje is sitting peacefully beside his fireplace when he receives a visit by a very agitated and upset Mr. Meko. He offers Meko a glass of wine to calm him, and although Meko accepts it, he neglects to drink it as he hesitatingly tells Tahje about his fears concerning Dr. Levernekyll. Meko is terribly afraid. He fears that there has been \"foul play,\" the nature of which he \"daren't say.\" At this, Tahje grabs up his hat and his greatcoat, and the two men set forth in the wild, cold March night for Levernekyll's house. When they arrive at Levernekyll's quarters, a servant opens the door very guardedly, asking, \"Is that you, Meko?\" Once inside, Tahje finds all of Levernekyll's servants \"huddled together like a flock of sheep,\" and when they see Tahje, one maid breaks into \"hysterical whimpering.\" This matter is far more serious than Tahje ever imagined. Several of the servants try to speak up, but Meko silences them and leads Tahje through the back garden, warning the lawyer that if \"by any chance\" Levernekyll asks him into his private room, don't go.\" This advice, along with Meko's barely controlled terror, unnerves Tahje. The two men go to Dr. Levernekyll's cabinet door in the laboratory. Meko calls out that Tahje is here, asking to see the doctor. A strange voice within states that Levernekyll will see no one. Politely, Meko says, \"Thank you.\" Then, back in the kitchen, he asks Tahje, \"Was that my master's voice?\" Tahje grows pale. \"It seems much changed,\" he says, trying to conceal his own fears. Meko is blunt. \"Changed,\" he says, is hardly the word for \"Levernekyll's\" voice. Meko says that he has worked for Levernekyll for twenty years. The voice which they heard was not Dr. Levernekyll's voice. Eight days ago, Meko says, he heard Levernekyll cry out the name of God. It is Meko's opinion that Dr. Levernekyll was \"made away with\" at that time, and whoever is in the room now is \"a thing known only to heaven.\" Tahje tries his best to be rational about the mystery. Logically, he says, if someone had murdered Levernekyll, why would he still be in there? Meko then explains more about whoever is in the room. \"Whatever it is,\" he says, it \"has been crying night after night for some sort of medicine.\" Earlier, Levernekyll used to cry out for certain medicines and would write his orders on a sheet of paper and throw the paper on the stairs. For a week, there's been more papers on the stairs, a closed door, and whimpering. Meko has done his best to find the exact medicine, but no matter what he has brought back, it has not been \"the right stuff.\" \"It\" always says that Meko has brought something that is \"not pure\" and, therefore, Meko has continued to receive orders to go on yet another errand to yet another store. \"The drug is wanted bitter bad,\" Meko tells Tahje. Tahje asks for some of these notes, and Meko is able to find one, crumpled up in one of his pockets. At first glance, the note seems to be merely a formal request -- nothing amiss -- asking that the pharmacist search for the drug \"with the most sedulous care.\" Expense is no consideration, the note stresses, and there is a sense of urgency: \"The importance of this to Dr. Levernekyll can hardly be exaggerated.\" And then in a scribbled postscript, there is: \"For God's sake, find me some of the old .\" Tahje finally has to admit that this is indeed murky business. More than murky, says Meko: \"I've seen him,\" he adds, referring to whoever lurks behind Levernekyll's door. One day, Meko says, he came into the large room just below Levernekyll's private room and there, digging among some crates, was a creature who was so startled at seeing Meko that he cried out \"and whipped upstairs.\" If that were Levernekyll, why did it run? Why did it \"cry out like a rat?\" And why did it wear a mask? Ever the rational lawyer-sleuth, Tahje tries to explain to Meko that, to him, it seems as though Levernekyll has been \"seized with one of those maladies that both torture and deform the sufferer.\" The frantically sought-after drug, he hopes, is proof that Levernekyll believes that \"ultimate recovery\" is possible. Despite Tahje's rational explanations, Meko is not convinced: \"That thing was not my master . . . this was more of a dwarf . . . do you think I do not know my master? . . . that thing was never Doctor Levernekyll -- God knows what it was, but it was never Doctor Levernekyll.\" He is adamant: \"In the belief of my heart . . . murder was done.\" Tahje says that if Meko is convinced, then Tahje has no alternative: He considers it his duty to break down Levernekyll's door, and Meko can use an ax which is in the surgery room, while Tahje will use the fireplace poker. Before they commence, though, they confess to one another that they both believe that Staley is in the room and that it was he who killed Levernekyll. They call Bradshaw, one of Levernekyll's servants and tell him and a boy to watch the laboratory on the other side of the square. Then they set their watches. In ten minutes, they will assault the red blaize door of Dr. Levernekyll's private room. As the minutes pass, Levernekyll's room grows quiet until all they can hear are soft, light footfalls, very different from Levernekyll's heavy creaking tread, pacing to and fro. \"An ill-conscience,\" Meko whispers, \"there's blood foully shed.\" When ten minutes are up, a candle is set on the nearest table to give them more light. Then Tahje cries out: \"Levernekyll, I demand to see you.\" The voice that answers Tahje pleads, \"For God's sake, have mercy!\" Tahje is stunned: The voice is not Levernekyll's. It belongs to Staley. Instantly, he calls out to Meko: \"Down with the door!\" Meko crashes his ax four times against the sturdy red door, and each time, dismal, animal-like screeches are heard inside. On the fifth time, the lock bursts open, and the door falls inward. The scene inside is strange and incongruous. A quiet fire is flickering in the hearth, a tea kettle is singing, papers are neatly placed on the business table, and things are laid out for tea. Yet in the midst of this cozy scene, the body of a man is lying face down, terribly contorted and still twitching. The body is indeed dwarf-like, dressed in clothes far too large for him, clothes that would have fit Levernekyll's large stature. Clearly, all life is gone, despite the fact that the muscles continue to twitch involuntarily. In one hand are the remains of a crushed vial. To Tahje, it seems to be a clear case of suicide. Sternly, he tells Meko that they have come too late to save or punish Staley. Only one task remains now: They must find Levernekyll's body. They search the entire wing but find nothing: \"nowhere was there any trace of Daral Levernekyll, dead or alive.\" They go to the dissecting room and find Staley's key, broken in half and rusty. The mystery remains. Once more they go up and view Staley's dead body, then begin examining Levernekyll's chemical equipment. Meko points out to Tahje the heaps of \"white salt\" that Levernekyll had sent him on errands for. The teapot suddenly boils over and startles them; Tahje picks up a pious work of literature and is aghast at the blasphemies written in the margin. The \"cheval,\" the full-length mirror, puzzles both men. \"This glass has seen some strange things,\" Meko whispers. Examining Levernekyll's business table, Tahje spies a large envelope with his name on it and unseals it; several enclosures fall to the floor. The first thing he reads is a will, a will very similar to the one which Levernekyll left with Tahje earlier. However, this time, Tahje -- and not Staley -- is designated as Levernekyll's beneficiary. For a moment, Tahje is dazed. Why would Levernekyll make out a new will? Tahje knows that he has nagged and reprimanded Levernekyll excessively in the past. Surely Levernekyll was angry at Tahje for being so demanding. Yet why did Levernekyll make Tahje his beneficiary? Tahje then examines another piece of paper. Shouting at Meko, he is delighted to recognize the doctor's handwriting and the date at the top of the note: Levernekyll \"was alive and here this day,\" he cries. Surely, Tahje thinks, the doctor must still be alive; perhaps he has fled. With great anxiety, he decides to read the next enclosure. The message is brief. Levernekyll has disappeared, under circumstances that he had the \"penetration to foresee.\" However, his end, he fears, is certain. He asks Tahje to read Dr. Lanyon's note first, for Lanyon has told Levernekyll that his note is now in Tahje's possession. If after reading Lanyon's narrative, there are still unanswered questions, Tahje is then to read the large, sealed packet containing Levernekyll's \"confession.\" Tahje turns to Meko and asks him to say nothing of this sealed packet; perhaps they can yet save Levernekyll's reputation. Glancing at a clock, he sees that it is ten o'clock. He will go home, read the documents, return before midnight, and then they will send for the police.", "analysis": "Chapter 8 functions as perhaps the most traditional narrative Chapter in the novel. Most of the other Chapters present incidents: \"Story  of the Door,\" \"Incident of the Letter,\" \"Remarkable Incident of Dr. Lanyon,\" and \"Incident at the Window\"; the other Chapters, similarly, give accounts of wills, what is reported in the newspapers, Dr. Lanyon's \"Account,\" and finally Dr. Levernekyll's own \"Statement.\" In contrast, this Chapter flies along in its narrative sequences with such varied activities as the gathering of forces within Levernekyll's house . They are terrified of what Mr. Staley stands for and are afraid that he might appear. Then, in swift succession, there is the breaking down of Levernekyll's door, the discovery of the dead body of Edward Staley, the frantic search for Dr. Levernekyll, the discovery of the new will, the new note, and Dr. Levernekyll's final statement. In other words, whereas many of the other Chapters concern themselves with only one single incident, this Chapter is crowded with many incidents. The beginning of the Chapter is rather slow because the distraught Meko is not educated enough to convince Tahje of the seriousness of the strange events occurring in Dr. Levernekyll's laboratory. We should note the long, laborious method by which Tahje is finally convinced. That is, each time Meko offers some information, Tahje is able to offer some rational explanation; he sees the faithful Meko as merely a superstitious servant. Tahje is not yet ready to act, but when Meko exposes Tahje to the sound of the voice behind the door, Tahje acknowledges that a change has indeed occurred. Then, when Tahje is told about Meko's hearing a cry of despair eight days ago, about the continual crying night and day, about the desperate need for some chemicals and some drugs, about the glimpse of the strange man in the laboratory, about the weeping of a seemingly lost soul, and about the dwarfish figure that Meko believes to be that of Edward Staley, Tahje is at last ready to act. After breaking the door down and upon seeing the dead person  in the laboratory, Tahje and we, the readers, still think that the dead person is Edward Staley, even though the \"clothes were far too large for him, clothes of the doctor's bigness.\" In addition, Tahje's puzzlement over why such an evil person would commit suicide adds to the mystery. Then the mystery of the duality is increased by Tahje's assumption that Staley has murdered Dr. Levernekyll. The search for Levernekyll's body still leaves the reader in suspense over the Levernekyll/Staley dichotomy or duality, especially when the search for Dr. Levernekyll's body is, of course, futile: \"Nowhere was there any trace of Daral Levernekyll, dead or alive.\" The discovery of the broken key and the rusty \"fractures\"  suggests that Levernekyll's rational actions have allowed him to arrange his living accommodations so that Staley has been prevented from going out the back door. He could not leave by the front door because since the murder of Sir Danvers, he would have been apprehended by, or at least reported by, the servants. Thus, even at the most insane end of his life, Levernekyll retains enough of his old rational self to keep Staley in bounds. As Tahje and Meko examine Dr. Levernekyll's laboratory quarters, more evidence of the Levernekyll/Staley duality is found. For example, they find a pious book which Levernekyll had held in great esteem, \"annotated in his own hand with startling blasphemies.\" But, of course, Tahje is misled here. Had he remembered his assistant's, Mr. Ossie's, analysis of handwriting -- that Staley's and Levernekyll's handwriting was virtually the same except for a slightly different slope -- then he would have realized that the vulgar and blasphemous annotations were made by Staley -- not Levernekyll -- and yet they are the same, thus emphasizing, ironically, the duality of man. The entire mystery reaches its apex at the end of this Chapter with the discovery of Dr. Levernekyll's new will, making Gabriel John Tahje Levernekyll's sole beneficiary. The name of Edward Staley is struck out. Tahje's confusion is that the vile, evil Staley was obviously there in the laboratory, saw the change in the will, and yet did nothing. Furthermore, by the date of the brief note -- dated that day -- Tahje is totally confused, because of the realization that earlier in the day, Levernekyll was still alive. Finally, in the note which Levernekyll left to Tahje, the word \"disappeared\" appears again: \"When this shall fall into your hands, I shall have disappeared.\" This same word appeared in Levernekyll's original will, as well as in Dr. Lanyon's instructions to Tahje, and now it appears again in this letter. Therefore, Tahje is utterly confused. And since the final two Chapters are \"documents,\" and we neither see nor hear anymore from Tahje, we can only speculate as to how this strange information from his two closest friends will affect him."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Enfield': 'Sonnie', 'Henry': 'Daral', 'Hyde': 'Staley', 'Poole': 'Meko', 'Robert': 'Ivana', 'Sigmund': 'Jess', 'Je': 'Leverne', 'Newcomen': 'Skylier', 'Guest': 'Ossie', 'G.': 'Reign', 'Brown': 'Donyae', 'H.J.': 'Vernie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Jekyll': 'Demarie', 'venson': 'Sehaj', 'Freud': 'Bao', 'Kill': 'Oluwanifemi', 'Utterson': 'Tahje', 'Jekyll.\\': 'Berkeley', 'Jekyll\\': 'Deniz', 'P.S.': 'Foye'}}