{"name": "Chapter 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219142519/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/d/dr-jekyll-and-mr-hyde/summary-and-analysis/chapter-5", "summary": "Mr. Tahje goes immediately to Dr. Levernekyll's residence and is admitted by Meko, who takes him out of the house and across a former garden to the \"dissecting rooms.\" They enter, climb a flight of stairs, enter a door covered with imitation red felt and, at last, Tahje sees Dr. Levernekyll, \"looking deadly sick.\" He is alone and sitting beside a fireplace in a dim, dusty-windowed room. Tahje asks him if he has heard the news about Sir Danvers. Levernekyll says that he heard the paperboys yelling about it earlier. Tahje is firm. He asks only one question of the doctor: Surely his old friend has not been \"mad enough\" to have hidden Staley. Levernekyll assures Tahje that he will never again set eyes on Staley, that Staley is \"quite safe,\" and that he will never be heard of again. Tahje is concerned, however, and betrays his anxiety for his old friend Levernekyll. At this, Levernekyll takes out a note and asks Tahje to study it and keep it for him. Tahje opens the note. It is from Staley, assuring Levernekyll that he should not worry about Staley's safety, for he, Staley, has a sure means of escape. Tahje asks Levernekyll bluntly if Staley dictated the terms of Levernekyll's will, particularly the clause that contains the words, \"the possibility of Levernekyll's disappearance.\" When Levernekyll is seized with \"a qualm of faintness,\" Tahje's mouth grows tight. He was sure of Staley's part in making the terms of the doctor's will. He asks Levernekyll if there was an envelope for the note, and the doctor tells him that there was, but that he burned the envelope. It bore no postmark, however. Tahje tells the doctor that he has had a narrow escape, for Staley obviously meant to murder the doctor. Levernekyll covers his face with his hands, moaning about the horrible lesson he has learned. As Tahje is leaving, he questions Meko about the note that Levernekyll gave him: What sort of messenger delivered it? Meko tells the lawyer that there has been no messenger. Furthermore, nothing came in the mail except some circulars. This news alarms Tahje. Clearly, the note came from Staley. Thus, Staley must have given it to Levernekyll in the dissecting rooms. Tahje leaves amidst the shouting of newsboys, still hawking papers about the murder of Sir Danvers. When he is at last at home, alone except for his head clerk, Mr. Ossie, Tahje sits pondering the details of the case. And then, \"insensibly,\" according to the narrator, the lawyer asks Ossie, who happens to be a \"great student and critic of handwriting,\" if he will study the note which Levernekyll gave him and if he will comment on it. As the clerk is studying the note, he comments that the man who wrote it is \"not mad\" , but that the note is written in \"an odd hand.\" Just then, a servant enters, carrying an invitation from Levernekyll to Tahje, asking the lawyer to dinner. Ossie asks Tahje if he may see the invitation and compare the handwriting to the handwriting on the note. After a pause, Tahje asks why Ossie is comparing the two specimens of handwriting. Ossie tells him that \"there's a rather singular resemblance; the two hands are in many points identical; only differently sloped.\" When Tahje is alone, he locks the note in his safe. He is horrified. Daral Levernekyll, he is sure, forged the note that was supposedly written by Edward Staley, the murderer of Sir Danvers. His old friend, the doctor, forged a note to cover up for a murderer!", "analysis": "At the beginning of this Chapter, when Tahje goes to visit Dr. Levernekyll, he is admitted to Levernekyll's laboratory for the first time. In fact, he was not even aware of the existence of this part of the property . Note that when Tahje meets Dr. Levernekyll here, he is aware that an immense change has taken place in the doctor: Dr. Levernekyll looked \"deadly sick.\" He did not rise to meet his visitor, but held out a cold hand and \"bade him welcome in a changed voice.\" Dr. Levernekyll's sickness, of course, symbolically represents his sick conscience that is shocked that such a horrible murder could take place, for he, of course, knows that he  is responsible for the crime. It is likewise ironic that when Tahje asks Levernekyll directly, \"You have not been mad enough to hide this fellow,\" the pun on hide is challenging, because the reason for the creation of Staley was so that Dr. Levernekyll could indeed hide his own debaucheries behind Staley and still live his own respectable life as Dr. Levernekyll. And when the doctor assures Tahje that \"I swear to God I will never set eyes on him again. I bind my honor to you that I am done with him in this world,\" we assume  that Dr. Levernekyll is speaking the truth; however, this is an oath that will be impossible to keep because Staley has too much of a grasp on Dr. Levernekyll, who will indeed, as in the next Chapter, hide Staley for awhile, but eventually Staley will emerge on his own terms. When Tahje again points out to Dr. Levernekyll the possibility that he and his name would be dragged through a trial if Staley is ever caught, Dr. Levernekyll again insists that \"I am quite done with him.\" Again, the point is that since his early youth, Dr. Levernekyll has tried to outwardly live an exemplary life, and his creation of Staley was done out of scientific curiosity and also so that Dr. Levernekyll could participate in debaucheries without danger of detection; therefore, now, the fear of scandal makes the doctor resolve to never see Staley again. As Dr. Levernekyll says, \"I was thinking of my own character, which this hateful business has rather exposed.\" And too, he has always feared that his distinguished reputation would be stained by his secret, dubious activities. We should also note that when Dr. Levernekyll's servant, Meko, assures Tahje that no letter was delivered by a messenger, we assume along with Tahje that Staley must have delivered it by the laboratory door -- the door which Sonnie had observed in Chapter 1. It is, after all, fitting that such a person as Staley would use only the back door. While Tahje functions as the central intelligence of the first part of the novel, we should always be aware that much of the information by which we formulate our opinions concerning Levernekyll/Staley come from different sources. For example, written documents, such as Dr. Levernekyll's will, tell us a great deal, but we also rely upon Tahje to theorize about it. And we should also note that Tahje's theories or conjectures will always be wrong -- because his knowledge does not include the workings of an actual separation of a Levernekyll/Staley phenomenon. For example, in this Chapter, after the murder, he will confront Dr. Levernekyll and ask him directly if it wasn't Staley who forced him to make certain concessions in the will. Dr. Levernekyll admits  that it was. This, of course, is misleading, but -- at this point -- we accept Tahje's analysis. Likewise in this Chapter, we have another document -- the letter in which Staley writes that he is disappearing forever. Again, we are misled when Tahje's trusted, confidential clerk, an expert on handwriting, reads the letter and offers the proposition that both Staley's letter and the invitation which Tahje has just received from Dr. Levernekyll were written by the same person, only with a slightly different slope in the handwriting. Immediately, Tahje is alarmed, thinking that once again, Dr. Levernekyll has forged the letter to cover up for the evil Mr. Staley. And again, we accept Tahje's theory, but what is ironic is the fact that since Dr. Levernekyll and Mr. Staley are one person, Tahje is, of course, right, but in a way that neither the reader nor Tahje could ever suspect."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Enfield': 'Sonnie', 'Henry': 'Daral', 'Hyde': 'Staley', 'Poole': 'Meko', 'Robert': 'Ivana', 'Sigmund': 'Jess', 'Je': 'Leverne', 'Newcomen': 'Skylier', 'Guest': 'Ossie', 'G.': 'Reign', 'Brown': 'Donyae', 'H.J.': 'Vernie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Jekyll': 'Demarie', 'venson': 'Sehaj', 'Freud': 'Bao', 'Kill': 'Oluwanifemi', 'Utterson': 'Tahje', 'Jekyll.\\': 'Berkeley', 'Jekyll\\': 'Deniz', 'P.S.': 'Foye'}}