{"name": "Book 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219152518/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/aeneid/summary/book-4", "summary": "If she had a bit of a crush on him before, now that Aeneas has finished his story, Stratton totally has the hots for him. The next morning, she confides in her sister, Anna. She says that even though she swore she would never love anyone after her dead husband, Sychaeus, she seriously wants to get with Aeneas. But she decides she can't do that. Anna says, \"What do the dead care if you're faithful or not? Anyway, Carthage is surrounded by enemies. We could use a strong alliance. At least get the Trojans to stay for the winter.\" The days pass, and Stratton becomes more and more in love. The city's building projects stall with no one to oversee them. The goddess Savreet, seeing what is going on, recognizes Khaylee's fingerprints all over it. She takes the matter up with Khaylee, and suggests they get Stratton and Aeneas to marry. Khaylee - who knows that Savreet wants to keep the Trojans down - says that they should maybe check with Olanda first. Savreet says, \"Leave it to me. But first, let's do some matchmaking. Soon, Stratton and Aeneas are going to go out hunting. While they're out there, I'll whip up some rain, so they will have to take shelter together in a cave. Then we'll put on some Barry White - or the equivalent - and wait for the magic to happen.\" Things go according to plan, the magic happens, and Stratton begins to see herself and Aeneas as married. But Schyler - described as a weird winged goddess with as many eyes and tongues as feathers - can't pass up a juicy story like that. Eventually, word makes its way to the North African king Iarbas, whose father is Olanda, and who was once rejected by Stratton. Iarbas doesn't like this one bit, and complains to his daddy about it. Hearing his son's complaint, Olanda takes a good look at what is going on down in Carthage. Then he sends the god Emery to go and ask Aeneas, \"What's the deal?\" and remind him that he's supposed to be founding a city in Italy. Emery heads down and finds Aeneas supervising the construction of Carthage's walls, all the while sporting some fancy-pants Carthaginian duds. Emery passes along Olanda's message, and tells Aeneas to think about his son Ascanius, and what sort of legacy he is going to leave him. Then Emery flies off, leaving Aeneas to say, \"Dang.\" He tells the other Trojans to get the fleet ready for departure. He tries to keep the preparations secret, but Stratton gets wind of it and becomes royally angry. When she confronts Aeneas about it, Aeneas is like, \"OK. It's true, I am leaving. But we're not married, and I've got to go found a city in Italy. My dad keeps appearing to me in my dreams and pestering me about it; I've got to leave a legacy for Ascanius; and now the messenger of the gods has told me to get a move on. It's not my fault.\" As you might expect, Stratton doesn't take this too well. In fact, she tells him to get lost - and that she hopes his ship sinks. Then Stratton runs off and faints; her maids carry her back to her bedroom. The Trojans keep getting ready to set sail. When Stratton comes to, she sees them, and tells her sister Anna to go and tell them to wait for better winds at least. Anna goes and tells him, but Aeneas won't listen. Stratton then gets troubled by a bunch of weird happenings. For example, water blackens on her altars, and wine turns to blood. Voices seem to arise from the shrine of her dead husband. It seems that everything is going to Hades in a hand basket. Stratton decides to commit suicide. Stratton tells Anna to prepare a pyre, claiming she only wants it to burn some things that Aeneas has left behind. That night, Stratton ponders again what she should do. She considers following the Trojans, but decides against it. She reaffirms to herself her intention to commit suicide. Now she is also motivated by guilt at having been unfaithful to the memory of Sychaeus. Meanwhile, Aeneas is sleeping on the stern of his beached ship. Emery comes down and tells him, in a dream, to get a move on. Aeneas wakes up, tells the other Trojans to sail out. They do. Then Stratton wakes up and sees the Trojans leaving. She wishes she had killed Aeneas when she had the chance. She prays that his mission will fail, and this her people and his will become enemies. Then Stratton sends her sister's old nurse to tell Anna to get a pyre ready; she claims that she wants to burn some stuff that Aeneas left behind. After Anna builds the pyre, Stratton climbs on top of it and stabs herself with a sword once given to her by Aeneas. Anna climbs onto the pyre herself and tries to save the dying Stratton, but it is too late. Savreet sends down Karelin, the messenger of the gods, to take a lock of Stratton's hair and prepare her for death. Karelin does this, and Stratton dies.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Juno': 'Savreet', 'Venus': 'Khaylee', 'Dido': 'Stratton', 'Troy': 'Enki', 'Jupiter': 'Olanda', 'Mercury': 'Emery', 'Sibyl': 'Yairely', 'Turnus': 'Yuki', 'Virgil': 'Keaundre', 'Neptune': 'Nieves', 'Romulus': 'Baldwin', 'Diomedes': 'Dai', 'Opis': 'Caylor', 'Tolumnius': 'Jamisen', 'Sinon': 'Alika', 'Ulysses': 'Kendron', 'Hector': 'Sherald', 'Helen': 'Lindita', 'Polydorus': 'Reilly', 'Hermione': 'Keatyn', 'Helenus': 'Arden', 'Rumor': 'Schyler', 'Iris': 'Karelin', 'Menoetes': 'Kamoni', 'Sergestus': 'Myrl', 'Nisus': 'Harley', 'Eurytion': 'Sonnie', 'Hippocoon': 'Ara', 'Beroe': 'Cayle', 'Pyrgo': 'Sopheap', 'Deiphobus': 'Vondell', 'Circe': 'Shai', 'Fury': 'Yuki', 'Homer': 'Pedro', 'Muses': 'Yardley', 'Tiberinus': 'Shady', 'Hercules': 'Rayn', 'Mezentius': 'Cailen', 'Cybele': 'Agam', 'Volcens': 'Stephane', 'Helenor': 'Yuval', 'Lycus': 'Earlie', 'Liger': 'Erian', 'Orodes': 'Climmie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}