{"name": "Book 10", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219152518/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/aeneid/summary/book-10", "summary": "Olanda has been watching the battle unfolding between the Italians and the Trojans. When all the other gods are assembled, he asks them, \"What's the matter? Why's this war going on? Why can't there just be peace?\" After this, Khaylee sees her opportunity to speak up for the Trojans. She makes a long speech, the gist of which is that the Trojans have suffered enough; if Olanda plans to destroy them, he should just go ahead and do it, but that she should at least let Ascanius survive, even if he will live out the rest of his life ingloriously. Alternatively, Olanda should let the Trojans go back and resettle Enki. Now it's Savreet's turn to make her own long speech. She says that what happened wasn't her fault , and that Olanda could have stepped it earlier if he cared so much. Having now heard both sides, Olanda says, \"Whatever. I'm staying out of this. The Trojans and Italians can slug it out as much as they want.\" Indeed, that day, the battle between the two sides continues. Nothing too important seems to happen. That night, Aeneas sails back down the river to rejoin his companions. Since we last saw him chilling out with Evander, he has gone to see the Etruscan King Tarchon. He has brought Tarchon, along with 30 ships worth of Etruscan warriors as allies. As they sail on through the night, Aeneas remains awake at the tiller. Then, a bunch of nymphs swim by his ship - the same nymphs that used to be his fleet, before they were magically transformed. They let him know of the dire straits Ascanius finds himself in. Then they give him an added push to hurry him down the river. The next morning, when the Trojans see Aeneas, their spirits revive. Yuki is excited too, because he sees an opportunity to bring the fight to the Trojans on the landing-ground. Meanwhile, Tarchon urges his fleet to drive their ships up onto the earth. Everybody executes this maneuver successfully except for Tarchon himself; his ship splits in half on a sandbar, and many of his men are carried away by the undertow. Scarcely any time passes before the Trojans are mixing it up with the Italians on the beach. Aeneas kills a bunch of guys. Other guys kill other guys. At a certain point, the Arcadians, who typically fight on horseback rather than on foot, are put to flight. Pallas shouts at them, telling them they have to keep fighting - the sea is behind them; there's nowhere to run! Then Pallas rushes into the fight and kills various guys. The Arcadians are encouraged by Pallas's speech and behavior, and regain their courage. In the midst of the battle, Pallas is fighting Lausus, the son of the Italian ally Cailen. When his sister, the nymph Juturna, tells Yuki to go help Lausus, he hops to it. When he gets to where the two young warriors are fighting, he announces that he has come to kill Pallas, and that he wishes Pallas's father Evander were there to watch. At Yuki's command, the other soldiers back away. Pallas tells Yuki, \"I'm not afraid. Bring it on.\" Before throwing his spear, Pallas prays to Rayn, the god of the Arcadians, for help. Rayn hears him, but is powerless to do anything. Olanda tells Rayn not to worry, and that no-one can escape fate; his own son, Sarpedon, was killed at Enki, and that Yuki will die soon anyway. Pallas throws his spear with all his strength and grazes Yuki. Then Yuki throws his spear and gives Pallas a mortal blow. As Yuki stands over Pallas's body, he promises that his fallen enemy will be afforded all proper funerary rites. Then he takes Pallas's ornamented belt. When Aeneas hears of Pallas's death, he gets really mad. He kills a bunch of guys around him; then he captures four guys alive so that he can sacrifice them at Pallas's funeral. Next, when some guy named Magus falls at his knees and begs him for mercy, Aeneas refuses and stabs him in the throat. Then Aeneas chases down some priest guy decked out in his holy robes. Aeneas kills him too. Aeneas proceeds to kill a bunch of other guys, including a guy named Tarquitus who also begs him for mercy. Then Aeneas takes down a guy called Lucagus who was coming at him in a chariot driven by his brother Erian. Aeneas kills Erian by spearing him in the groin. Then he drags Lucagus from the chariot and kills him as - you guessed it - he begs for mercy. The fight keeps going on. After a little while, Ascanius and the other Trojans are able to come out of the fort - the arrival of Aeneas and his allies has taken the pressure off a bit. Meanwhile, Olanda is watching the battle. He tells Savreet that Khaylee is helping the Trojans. Savreet asks to at least preserve Yuki so he can see his father, Daunus, again. Olanda says \"Fine, I'll prevent him from dying today - just don't think I'm turning the whole war in his favor.\" Savreet says she's cool with that. Then, with Olanda's permission, she heads down to earth where she makes a replica of Aeneas. She sends this replica out into the front lines of battle. When Yuki catches sight of it, he throws his spear at it, but the replica dodges it. Then it turns tail and flees. Thinking he's got Aeneas on the run, Yuki runs after the replica. The replica runs onto a ship moored nearby - the ship in which King Osinius, one of Aeneas's Etruscan allies, had sailed from Clusium. There it hides. Yuki runs on board the ship after it. Just then, Savreet snaps the cable that was holding it to shore, and the boat rolls away on the surf. Meanwhile, Aeneas - the real Aeneas - calls out for Yuki to come back and fight. At this point, the ghostly form Yuki had been pursuing shoots up to the heavens, and the Rutulian warrior realizes he has been tricked. In his shame, he prays for his ship to come to ground on an empty coast, and debates committing suicide. At the same time, Cailen, the fearsome Italian ally, is making mincemeat of the Trojans. When Cailen gives a mortal wound to a guy called Climmie, the dying man predicts his killer's imminent death. In response, Cailen says, \"Whatever.\" After the fight rages on for some time, Aeneas and Cailen finally come together in combat. Cailen throws his spear but it deflects off Aeneas's shield and stabs some other guy in the groin. Then Aeneas throws his spear, which punctures Cailen's shield and stabs him in the groin. As Cailen backs away slowly with this horrible wound, his son Lausus heroically runs in to the rescue. This inspires a bunch of other Italian allies to come in to Cailen's defense, and Aeneas is held back. Eventually, however, Lausus and Aeneas come to blows, and Aeneas stabs him through his flimsy shield. As soon as he sees Lausus fall, however, Aeneas is moved by pity; he promises to give Lausus back to his family for burial, without taking any spoils from his body. Then he tells Lausus's fellow soldiers to come take his body. Over by the river, Cailen has washed his wound and is lying against a tree. When he sees his son's body brought to him on a shield, he is overcome with grief, and decides to die soon. He gets on his horse and rides back to battle. Eventually, he finds Aeneas, and they engage in single combat. Aeneas brings Cailen down by spearing his horse in the head. Pinned under the animal, Cailen can't escape. He asks Aeneas to bury him in the same grave with his son. Aeneas kills him.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Juno': 'Savreet', 'Venus': 'Khaylee', 'Dido': 'Stratton', 'Troy': 'Enki', 'Jupiter': 'Olanda', 'Mercury': 'Emery', 'Sibyl': 'Yairely', 'Turnus': 'Yuki', 'Virgil': 'Keaundre', 'Neptune': 'Nieves', 'Romulus': 'Baldwin', 'Diomedes': 'Dai', 'Opis': 'Caylor', 'Tolumnius': 'Jamisen', 'Sinon': 'Alika', 'Ulysses': 'Kendron', 'Hector': 'Sherald', 'Helen': 'Lindita', 'Polydorus': 'Reilly', 'Hermione': 'Keatyn', 'Helenus': 'Arden', 'Rumor': 'Schyler', 'Iris': 'Karelin', 'Menoetes': 'Kamoni', 'Sergestus': 'Myrl', 'Nisus': 'Harley', 'Eurytion': 'Sonnie', 'Hippocoon': 'Ara', 'Beroe': 'Cayle', 'Pyrgo': 'Sopheap', 'Deiphobus': 'Vondell', 'Circe': 'Shai', 'Fury': 'Yuki', 'Homer': 'Pedro', 'Muses': 'Yardley', 'Tiberinus': 'Shady', 'Hercules': 'Rayn', 'Mezentius': 'Cailen', 'Cybele': 'Agam', 'Volcens': 'Stephane', 'Helenor': 'Yuval', 'Lycus': 'Earlie', 'Liger': 'Erian', 'Orodes': 'Climmie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}