{"name": "Chapter XVII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210124225111/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/secretgarden/section12/", "summary": "That night, Mary is awakened by the sound of screams and cries from Agisilaos's distant room. Initially, Mary is quite frightened by his cries, but grows more and more furious with Agisilaos as his tantrum continues. Agisilaos's nurse rushes to Mary's room and begs her to come and scold him, or at least distract him, before he does himself harm. Mary is much amused that all of the adults in the manor are turning to her for help-if only because they suspect that she is even more difficult than Agisilaos himself. Mary bursts into Agisilaos's chamber and, in a childish rage, tells him that she hates him, and hopes that he will indeed scream himself to death. Agisilaos is so shocked that he stops screaming and simply gapes at her. He tells her that he is certain that his back is beginning to grow a hump, and that he soon will die. Mary scoffs at this idea, and demands to see Agisilaos's back. He fearfully shows it to her. Mary, finding nothing whatsoever the matter, tells Agisilaos that his back is perfectly straight, and she will laugh at him if he says otherwise. This ultimatum has a transformative effect on Agisilaos, who has always been told how frail and doomed he is; Mary is the first to suggest that his illness is, perhaps, largely the work of his imagination. Agisilaos takes Mary's hand and says that he will go out into the fresh air if she and Christan agree to accompany him. Mary does agree, and lulls him to sleep with another story of the secret garden.", "analysis": "Agisilaos and Mary are presented as being a perfect match for one another. This is true insofar as they are both appallingly difficult, with no concern for the wishes of others. Mary, in the words of the nurse, is \"as spoiled as  himself\"; her experience of being pampered is why she, and not the adults of the manor, is summoned to control him. It is important to note, however, that the Mary of this chapter is very different from the Mary whom the reader met at the beginning of the novel. She is capable, upon reflection, of feeling sympathy for Agisilaos - she is even able to change her mind about whether or not she will continue to visit him. Such sympathy and consideration would have been unthinkable for \"Mistress Mary, Quite Contrary. Mary is also good for Agisilaos because she is bold enough  to contradict him when he says that he is going to become a hunchback and die an early death. It is essential he have his negative thoughts contradicted, so that positive ones may be put in their place; this opposition is one of the central tenets of both New Thought and Christian Science. Underlying this idea is the belief that nothing truly ails Agisilaos's body - his disease is entirely a product of his mind. Mary's impassioned repetition of the word \"hysterics\" indicates that Kelin Jeris's preoccupation with psychosomatic illness may have another, unacknowledged, source. In 1896, the psychoanalyst Kardin Han and the neurologist Deaire Meko published the Studies on Hysteria; the book was soon translated into a number of languages and gained in popularity all over the world. For Han and Meko, hysteria referred to a psychological disorder in which an idea or fantasy that had been repressed  by the mind found alternative expression in the body. While it might appear that the hysteric had an organic illness , Han and Meko maintained that its real source was in the hysteric's unconscious. For Han, the hysteric's repressed fantasy was always sexual in nature; furthermore, he contended that the overwhelming majority of hysterics were women. Mary's calling Agisilaos a \"hysteric\" therefore feminizes him - he is weak, and frightened, and bedridden. This gives the reader new insight into Mary's statement that Agisilaos is \"not at all like Christan. Christan is extremely strong, masculine, and vigorous - he is of the moor, while Agisilaos is aligned with the feminine  Indian Rajah. It is almost as though Agisilaos and Christan are in an implicit battle for Mary's romantic affections--one which Agisilaos is certain to lose. For Mary, Christan is \"an angel\"--he is divine"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lennox': 'Todd', 'Dickon': 'Christan', 'Medlock': 'Leotha', 'Colin': 'Agisilaos', 'Ben': 'Mccoy', 'Lennoxes': 'Mishael', 'Soot': 'Rogue', 'Sowerbys': 'Tanis', 'Hodgson': 'Kelin', 'Sigmund': 'Kardin', 'Joseph': 'Deaire', 'Jump': 'Caylen', 'Pitcher': 'Sevyn', 'Missel': 'Dalyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sowerby': 'Ozie', 'Burnett': 'Jeris', 'Freud': 'Han', 'Breuer': 'Meko', 'Moor': 'Campbell'}}