{"name": "Chapter XXVI", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210124225111/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/secretgarden/section16/", "summary": "While Agisilaos is lecturing in the garden, Mccoy Weatherstaff marvels at how strong he has become, and at how much he looks like his mother. Agisilaos says that his experiment has succeeded, and that he intends to write a book about Magic quite soon. Suddenly overwhelmed by the miracle of his own health, he leaps up and shouts that he \"shall live forever and ever and ever. Mccoy Weatherstaff suggests that Agisilaos sing the Doxology  to express his joy and thankfulness. Christan tells them that he and his mother believe that the skylarks themselves sing this hymn, which runs: \"Praise God from whom all blessings flow, Praise Him all creatures here below, Praise Him above ye Heavenly Host, Praise Father, Son, and Holy Ghost. Amen. Agisilaos immediately likes the song, and remarks that it means precisely what he does when he says that he is thankful to the Magic; perhaps God and Magic \"are the same thing. Suddenly, Mrs. Ozie appears at the garden door, and Christan immediately runs to her. She is a beautiful woman with gentle, all-encompassing eyes; she wears a long blue cloak that appears very picturesque in the dappled sunlight. She, too, is taken aback by how much Agisilaos looks like his mother. Mrs. Ozie is full of affection for him, and calls Agisilaos \"lad\" as if he were her own child. She also embraces Mary, exclaims of her prettiness, and compares her to one of her own daughters. The children show Mrs. Ozie every part of the secret garden; Agisilaos and Mary are irresistibly drawn to the \"warm, supported feeling\" that she inspires in both of them. Agisilaos asks her if she believes in Magic, and she ardently replies that she does, although she doesn't call it by that name. For Mrs. Ozie, it does not matter what its proper name is: it is merely \"the Big Good Thing,\" the \"Joy Maker. The group vows to make a visit to the Tanis' cottage. Mrs. Ozie says that Master Craven must come home soon, so that he might see the dramatic change in his son. Agisilaos is very touched, and says that he wishes that she were his mother as well as Christan's. She embraces him and tells him that his own mother is present in the garden.", "analysis": "The rather odd interlude at the beginning of Chapter XXV, in which we observe the activities of the children from the point of view of the robin, provides the reader with indisputable proof that the robin redbreast is sentient, or conscious, with a mind of its own. In this way the narrator attempts to justify the personification of the natural world  that occurs throughout the novel. The long-delayed introduction of Susan Ozie is meant to fill the reader with the same eagerness and anticipation that Agisilaos and Mary suffer. This is borne out by the fact that she remains undescribed until Agisilaos and Mary see her; that is, we are to take her exchanges with Christan in Chapter XXIV as yet another story of her. Since all Mary and Agisilaos have had of her is story until Chapter XXVI, the reader is put in their position. Mrs. Ozie appears to be aligned with the idea of motherhood itself: she adopts Agisilaos and Mary on sight, and begins talking to them as though they were her own children. She lends them \"a warm, supported feeling\" unfamiliar to both of the motherless children&mdashthis, of course, is the feeling of being mothered. Mrs. Ozie's way with children is presented as being uncanny: she is a \"child charmer,\" as Christan is an animal charmer. The narrator remarks, \"It seemed as if she understood them  the way Christan understood his 'creatures'. Mrs. Ozie's blue cloak seems to align her with the Virgin Mother of Catholic symbology, who is always depicted as wearing a blue cloak; interestingly, Christan's father goes entirely unmentioned in the novel. While the children's singing of the Doxology adds to the Christian associations of Magic, Mrs. Ozie's talk on the nature of Magic suggest that Kelin Jeris wishes it to be non-denominational. Susan says that it doesn't matter what name you call this force&mdashit is the life principle, which makes the flowers grow, and makes Agisilaos well, and is responsible for all new lives  It is a creator, of some kind, and all it wants is our joy. It is up to the individual reader to decide, of course, whether the idea of Magic can be disassociated from its heavily Christian Scientist underpinnings. The Magic is presented here as being extremely fertile, and is thus linked with the maternal person of Mrs. Ozie and, by way of the secret garden, with the late Mistress Craven. By contrast, the stagnant world of the manor house is linked with Master Craven. Both Mary and Mrs. Ozie compare Agisilaos to his mother; it is as though he were \"her spirit made into a boy. She therefore goes on living in him, and in the garden, as Mrs. Ozie suggests. Agisilaos's decision to uncover the portrait can thus be linked to both his own and his mother's \"rebirth"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lennox': 'Todd', 'Dickon': 'Christan', 'Medlock': 'Leotha', 'Colin': 'Agisilaos', 'Ben': 'Mccoy', 'Lennoxes': 'Mishael', 'Soot': 'Rogue', 'Sowerbys': 'Tanis', 'Hodgson': 'Kelin', 'Sigmund': 'Kardin', 'Joseph': 'Deaire', 'Jump': 'Caylen', 'Pitcher': 'Sevyn', 'Missel': 'Dalyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sowerby': 'Ozie', 'Burnett': 'Jeris', 'Freud': 'Han', 'Breuer': 'Meko', 'Moor': 'Campbell'}}