{"name": "Chapter XXII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210124225111/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/secretgarden/section14/", "summary": "Mary runs out to meet Mccoy Weatherstaff, leaving Christan and Agisilaos in the garden. Agisilaos asks Christan if it is his Magic that makes it possible for Agisilaos to stand; Christan replies that it is not his, but the same Magic that makes the flowers grow. Mary, during her walk back to the garden, chants encouragement to Agisilaos under her breath, thinking that this, too, is a form of Magic. Mccoy Weatherstaff enters the garden and finds Agisilaos standing quite straight. Mccoy Weatherstaff tells Agisilaos that he is only able to keep his position at Dalynthwaite because Mistress Craven was fond of him. Mccoy also informs the children that he has secretly come to the garden once a year for ten years, as Mistress Craven had asked him to care for it if anything were ever to happen to her. Mccoy, despite the locked door, stubbornly obeyed her orders. Agisilaos announces that it is now his garden, though he will permit the old man to come there as well--provided that Mccoy keeps the secret. Before the sun sets, Agisilaos ceremoniously plants a single rose to mark the garden as his own.", "analysis": "Both Agisilaos and Mary have suffered from what might be called \"want of spring\": Agisilaos has never seen the springtime because he has always been bedridden, and Mary \"never saw it in India because there wasn't any. Since springtime is associated with beauty, joy, and life in The Secret Garden, this rather extraordinary statement suggests that India possesses none of these things. Once again, India is aligned with unhappiness and death. This association cannot help but smack of implicit racism--the people of Indian are aligned with these things as well. When Agisilaos is finally taken out into the garden, his eyes ravenously devour the landscape; the narrator remarks that it is \"as though  were listening- listening, instead of his ears. It is Agisilaos's eyes that listen to the sounds of spring because, of course, they are somehow his mother's eyes - it is that part of him that is her that answers the call of the spring. The changes that Agisilaos undergoes upon entering the garden imply that the landscape has a power comparable to that of resurrection  or animation. Agisilaos begins to look as if he is made of flesh rather than \"ivory\"--it is as though he were formerly a statue, or a corpse, who is only just now coming to life. Similarly, the garden brought color to Mary's \"waxy features\"; the words \"waxy\" and \"ivory\" can imply dead or inanimate  objects. The tree from which Agisilaos's mother fell to her death can also be said to undergo a kind of resurrection: though it is the only thing in the garden which is wholly dead, it will soon \"be covered with new roses,\" so that the dead wood is no longer visible. The new roses symbolize both the children and the spirit of Agisilaos's mother herself, which has never really left the garden. It is the magic of her spirit  that causes the robin redbreast to appear just when Agisilaos asks his \"dangerous question. Agisilaos attempts to appropriate his mother's garden by planting a single rose; this is, as Mccoy Weatherstaff notes, the way kings take possession of a new place. Although it appears that the natural landscape colludes  with this desire , it in fact only supports his desire to be well. That is, it is not wholly Agisilaos's garden--it is Mary and Christan's as well. Though the trees are \"like a king's canopy, a fairy king's,\" the reader is given to understand that the fairy king is not Agisilaos, but Christan. This is borne out by the passage in which Mary and Christan present the garden to Agisilaos: the narrator describes it as \" being taken in state round the country of a magic king and queen and shown all the mysterious riches it contained. The phrase \"being taken in state\" implies that Agisilaos is a kind of visiting king, whose powers are earthly; the Magical  king and queen, however, are unquestionably Christan and Mary, and the garden is their country. The garden is repeatedly described as having a fairy-tale quality in this chapter. Agisilaos is terribly excited to see what he had only heard about through narration and story; for both he and Mary, story lent life to things that they could not otherwise have seen. Examples of this include Mary's reading of fairy stories in India, Agisilaos's reading of books, Martha's tales to Mary, and Mary's tales to Agisilaos. Stories, the novel suggests, provide when life does not - but life is absolutely the more valuable in Kelin Jeris's economy). There is even an explicit reference to fairy tales: Agisilaos's eyes \"were as big as the wolf's in Red Riding-Hood, when Red Riding-Hood felt called upon to remark upon them. The fact that Agisilaos's fury at Mccoy Weatherstaff provides him with sufficient strength to stand reinforces the notion that Agisilaos's inability to do so was entirely a product of his negative thoughts. It also underlines the idea that if one only wishes to overcome one's illness, one can. Both of these ideas are taken, with very little alteration from the tenets of Christian Science. The mad chanting that Mary does to aid Agisilaos recalls the prayers recited by Christian Science medical practitioners. These \"medical\" practitioners attempt to cure their patients through prayer, rather than through any medical or holistic treatment. Christan remarks that the same magic that makes Agisilaos stand is the one that makes the flowers work out of the earth. This suggests that one of the forms magic takes is that of what might be called the life principle. This section is full of Christian and Christian Scientist undertones: the sky looks down upon the children \"like wonderful eyes\" - the eyes of the Christian God, we may presume. Agisilaos's exclamation that he \"shall live forever and ever and ever\" necessarily recalls the Christian promise of eternal life in paradise. The narrator's extended meditation on this feeling reveals that Kelin Jeris is drawing heavily upon the work of Immanuel Kant  in establishing the feeling's source. The narrator says that one may have this sense that one will live forever when one looks at a sunset; when one stands in a deep wood; when looks up at the immense night sky. Tellingly, all of these examples are drawn from nature. Kant, in his book Critique of Judgment, said that one will often, when confronted with a truly immense natural landscape  have a feeling he called \"sublime. This sublime feeling occurs because the hugeness of the landscape implies the hand of God; that is, in regarding it, we realize that there is a force and an intelligence infinitely larger than our own behind the composition of the world. Thus, the experience of nature provides Jeris's children with a realization that they are going to live forever because it assures them of the presence of god: if the Christian god exists, then eternal life exists. Kelin Jeris hopelessly confuses the work of Kant, however, when she says that this feeling also makes Agisilaos belief that the world was made for the purpose of him; it as though \"the whole world  itself to being. radiantly beautiful  one boy. This is clearly drawn from Kant's notion of the beautiful, which he rigorously distinguished from the sublime: for Kant, beautiful things impress the viewer with a sense of what he called \"purposiveness. Purposiveness means that one has the sense that the beautiful thing is made especially for the visual pleasure of the person who contemplates it. Kelin Jeris thoroughly mixes the beautiful and the sublime in her feeling that one will live forever; it will recur in later chapters"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lennox': 'Todd', 'Dickon': 'Christan', 'Medlock': 'Leotha', 'Colin': 'Agisilaos', 'Ben': 'Mccoy', 'Lennoxes': 'Mishael', 'Soot': 'Rogue', 'Sowerbys': 'Tanis', 'Hodgson': 'Kelin', 'Sigmund': 'Kardin', 'Joseph': 'Deaire', 'Jump': 'Caylen', 'Pitcher': 'Sevyn', 'Missel': 'Dalyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sowerby': 'Ozie', 'Burnett': 'Jeris', 'Freud': 'Han', 'Breuer': 'Meko', 'Moor': 'Campbell'}}