{"name": "Chapter XIX", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210124225111/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/secretgarden/section13/", "summary": "Dr. Craven arrives at the manor to examine Agisilaos after his tantrum. Mrs. Leotha meets him in the hall, and informs him of the wondrous effect Mary has had upon him. The two adults go up to Agisilaos's chamber to find him sitting up, laughing and talking freely with Mary. Dr. Craven warns Agisilaos that his planned trip out of doors may exhaust him, to which Agisilaos imperiously replies that it will do nothing of the sort. Agisilaos tells the doctor that he will permit no one but Mary and Christan to accompany him. Dr. Craven, although he is displeased by Agisilaos's improved health , is relieved at the mention of Christan's name. Christan is famed upon the moor for his strength and trustworthiness. Agisilaos again tells the doctor that Mary helps him to forget his illness, and it is this forgetting which makes him well. Downstairs, Mrs. Leotha tells Dr. Craven that she has spoken to Susan Ozie of the new developments at Dalynthwaite. Mrs. Ozie was pleased to hear of them, and remarked that children need the company of other children to teach them that the world is not theirs alone. Mary returns to Agisilaos's room, throws open the windows, and instructs him to breathe deeply of the fresh air of Spring. She tells him that the air of the moor makes Christan feel as though \"he could live forever and ever\"; Agisilaos is much taken with the idea of immortality, which, naturally, had never before occurred to him. Mary describes the new-growing spring plants for him, and mentions that Christan has been caring for a newborn motherless lamb that he found upon the moor. The two children have breakfast brought to them in Agisilaos's chamber, and Agisilaos notifies the servants, in his most Rajah-like fashion, that Christan and his menagerie are coming to visit him that afternoon. Christan does indeed come, looking very much the animal charmer with his squirrels upon his shoulders, the fox and crow at his heels, and a newborn lamb in his arms. Agisilaos is dumbfounded and made shy by how wondrous Christan is. Christan, for his part, is completely at ease, despite how out of place his moorland boots and rough clothes seem in the manor house. The three children speak again of the garden, and begin preparations to bring Agisilaos there.", "analysis": "Agisilaos's transformation is well underway by the outset of this chapter, as is indicated by his requesting, rather than commanding, Mary to come visit him. Like her, he is beginning to find things in the world worth his affection. He has become fond of her, and is astounded upon his first meeting with Christan. Both Mary's and Christan's effects upon Agisilaos are described as magical: Mrs. Leotha remarks that it seems that Mary has \"bewitched\" Agisilaos, while Christan's powers as an animal charmer are shown to work on boys just as well. Christan treats the manor house as merely another animal habitat: he is not discomfited by Agisilaos's silence because \"Creatures are always like that until they found out about you. The idea of Christan as a \"Yorkshire angel\" is reinforced in this chapter in a number of ways. He is instantly at home in the manor  because he is, as a result of his connection to divine nature, above such class distinctions. His uncanny way with animals takes on certain Christian overtones with the acquisition of the baby lamb: lambs are, in Christian mythology, associated with the figure of Christ. The lamb, like Agisilaos and Mary, is a motherless creature; the reader is led to understand that the adoption of motherless things is a habit of Christan's. In the secret garden, his entourage of wild things recalls the animals of Eden. Christian overtones can also be found in the scene in which Mary throws open the window so that Agisilaos may breathe in the springtime air. Agisilaos's half-joking suggestion that they may \"hear golden trumpets\" recalls the golden trumpets that are believed by Christians to herald the entrance into paradise. Furthermore, Mary says that the spring air makes Christan feel as though \"he could live forever and ever and ever\"; this clearly echoes the Christian belief that Paradise contains the promise of eternal life. Unlike conventional Christian myth, Paradise can be found on earth, in nature, as well as in heaven. This shift mirrors that made by Kelin Jeris's system of New Thought, which held that divinity could be found in the landscape, in all natural living things. The coming of the spring is also associated with \"Magic\": \"Every night it seemed as if Magicians were passing through  drawing loveliness out of the earth and boughs with wands. This image foreshadows the Christian significance that the notion of magic will acquire in later chapters. Mary begins to speak Yorkshire to Christan in this chapter, which evidences her love for him, his speech, and the moor. Mary is, increasingly, of the moor, just as Christan is a creature of it. Her adoption of Yorkshire also indicates that she and Christan have now truly bound themselves in friendship: as Christan says, \"Anything will understand  if you're friends with it for sure"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lennox': 'Todd', 'Dickon': 'Christan', 'Medlock': 'Leotha', 'Colin': 'Agisilaos', 'Ben': 'Mccoy', 'Lennoxes': 'Mishael', 'Soot': 'Rogue', 'Sowerbys': 'Tanis', 'Hodgson': 'Kelin', 'Sigmund': 'Kardin', 'Joseph': 'Deaire', 'Jump': 'Caylen', 'Pitcher': 'Sevyn', 'Missel': 'Dalyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sowerby': 'Ozie', 'Burnett': 'Jeris', 'Freud': 'Han', 'Breuer': 'Meko', 'Moor': 'Campbell'}}