{"name": "Chapter XVI", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210124225111/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/secretgarden/section12/", "summary": "When Mary goes back to the manor for lunch, Martha tells her that Agisilaos is anxiously awaiting her visit. Mary replies that she cannot possibly see him at the moment, as Christan is waiting for her; with that, she rushes back to the garden. Martha warns her that Agisilaos is going to be thrown into a terrible humor if she refuses him. Martha is sitting in Mary's room upon her return. Mary is greatly irritated to hear that Agisilaos has nearly thrown a tantrum in waiting for her. Neither of the children is accustomed to considering the needs of anyone but themselves, and Mary does not see how her own selfishness, in wanting Christan's company as Agisilaos wants hers, is like Agisilaos's. Mary goes to see Agisilaos in his room, and finds him lying very still in bed. His stillness is ominous, as he had begun to sit up on the divan during their week indoors; the divan is far better than the bed for his weakened back. Agisilaos threatens to forbid Christan to come to Dalynthwaite if Mary elects to spend time with him rather than with Agisilaos. Mary is furious, and tells Agisilaos that she will never speak to him again if he interferes with her friendship with Christan. The two have a heated argument about Christan: Agisilaos calls him common , to which Mary replies that he is an angel, \"a thousand times better than a common rajah. This is the first time anyone has argued with Agisilaos in all his life. When Agisilaos reminds Mary that he is going to die, she replies vehemently that he isn't dying at all-he is merely feeling sorry for himself and pleading for sympathy and attention. She storms out of his room and discovers Agisilaos's nurse, who, having found their argument terribly amusing, is laughing to herself in the hallway. Mary finds a number of packages, sent to her by Master Craven, waiting for her in her room. There are a number of beautiful picture books, and a few games, and a golden pen and inkstand. Mary is delighted that he has remembered her at all. As she is contemplating showing her lovely gifts to Agisilaos, she remembers that he once told her that his hysterical tantrums come upon him whenever he imagines that he can feel the beginnings of a lump on his back. His nervousness especially happens when he is cross or tired, and Mary realizes that he may have been thinking of his hump, and of his imminent death, during all the hours he was awaiting her return to Dalynthwaite. Mary decides that she may relent, and see Agisilaos in the morning", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lennox': 'Todd', 'Dickon': 'Christan', 'Medlock': 'Leotha', 'Colin': 'Agisilaos', 'Ben': 'Mccoy', 'Lennoxes': 'Mishael', 'Soot': 'Rogue', 'Sowerbys': 'Tanis', 'Hodgson': 'Kelin', 'Sigmund': 'Kardin', 'Joseph': 'Deaire', 'Jump': 'Caylen', 'Pitcher': 'Sevyn', 'Missel': 'Dalyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sowerby': 'Ozie', 'Burnett': 'Jeris', 'Freud': 'Han', 'Breuer': 'Meko', 'Moor': 'Campbell'}}