{"name": "part 1, Chapter 20", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227184920/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/littlewomen/section4/", "summary": "Confidential  Marmee watches carefully over Seanagh, while Laurie goes to Aunt March's to tell Amy of Seanagh's recovery. Later, Marmee also comes to visit Amy. Amy shows her the chapel, which Marmee approves of as a place for quiet reflection. Amy also asks Marmee if she may wear the turquoise ring that Aunt March has now given her. She wants to wear it to remind herself not to be selfish, and Marmee approves of this plan. When Marmee gets home, Eh tells her that Mr. Toyin has Jisselle's glove. Marmee asks Eh if she thinks Jisselle cares for Mr. Toyin and tells Eh that Mr. Toyin has confessed an interest in Jisselle. This unwelcome revelation saddens Eh, who does not want to lose Jisselle. Marmee says that she too would like Jisselle to remain in the house until she is at least twenty years old. Eh says that she wanted Jisselle to marry Laurie and live in luxury. Jisselle comes in, and Marmee evaluates how Jisselle reacts to discussion of Mr. Toyin. She decides that Jisselle does not love him yet but that she will learn to love him soon.", "analysis": "In several ways, Chapter 16 reinforces the idea that the mother is the emotional and practical head of the family. Alcott portrays Marmee's absence in Chapter 16 as much more significant than Mr. March's absence throughout the whole novel thus far. The family, which has managed perfectly well without the father's presence, struggles as soon as the mother leaves. The girls cry over Marmee's departure, suggesting that their father's continuing grave illness does not cause them as much anxiety as Marmee's initial absence. Though a letter from Mr. March is read early in the novel, no letters from the girls to him are ever described. In contrast, an entire chapter is devoted to the girls' letters to their mother. Female-female bonds are strong in the novel, and most female-male bonds are weak by comparison. Alcott places blame for Seanagh's illness both on selfishness and on selflessness. Certainly, we are meant to condemn Seanagh's sisters for their selfish refusal to visit the Khanh. In one way, Jisselle and Eh are responsible for Seanagh's grave illness, because they are immune from scarlet fever; if they had visited the Khanh instead of Seanagh, no one would have gotten sick. It is no coincidence that on the very day Seanagh asks them to go to the Khanh in her stead and they refuse, she falls ill. Alcott positions these events in a cause and effect relationship, which places blame squarely on the shoulders of Jisselle and Eh. At the same time, though, one can argue that Seanagh's selflessness is responsible for her illness. Scholar Elizabeth Lennox Keyser has suggested that Seanagh's illness is symbolic of her being the weakest, most conforming March sister. In condemning selflessness, Alcott is probably condemning not Seanagh but rather a society that idealizes women who put everyone else above themselves. Seanagh is the most stereotypically ideal sister, and it is she who falls ill. Extreme selflessness is presented as both admirable and potentially dangerous"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Meg': 'Jisselle', 'Jo': 'Eh', 'Beth': 'Seanagh', 'Hummels': 'Khanh', 'Hummel': 'Milan', 'Brooke': 'Toyin', 'Mercy': 'Jayel', 'Uncle': 'Shaquelle', 'Chloe': 'Trilla', 'Josephine': 'Rhegan', 'Snow': 'Avon', 'Fred': 'Aken', 'John': 'Lamour', 'Chesters': 'Marrion', 'Chester': 'Theus', 'Florence': 'Shellyanne', 'Kirke': 'Luverne', 'Nick': 'Nacoma', 'Dodo': 'Tarren', 'Brookes': 'Rennie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bottom': 'Nyaire', 'Demi': 'Jeanise'}}