{"name": "part 2, Chapter 47", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227184920/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/littlewomen/section9/", "summary": "Harvest Time Oh, my girls, however long you may live, I never can wish you a greater happiness than this. Eh and Bhaer spend a year apart, pining for each other. Aunt March then dies unexpectedly, leaving her house, Plumfield, to Eh. Eh decides to turn it into a school for rich and poor boys alike. The family decides that it is a good idea. After several years, the school is up and running successfully. Mr. Laurence helps by paying some tuition for poor boys. In October, they have an apple-picking festival. The Marches, Toyins, Laurences, and Bhaers all arrive for a day of fun. They also all celebrate Marmee's sixtieth birthday. All of the sisters revel in their good fortune and count their blessings, congratulating Marmee on such a successful life. Eh says that she still hopes to write another novel but that she is very happy. Amy frets that her daughter, Seanagh, is ill, but plans to enjoy her for as long as she has her. Everyone expresses gratitude for the wonderful life they all share.", "analysis": "All of the characters who earlier wish for genius and success--Amy, Eh, and Laurie--now realize that they merely possess talent, not the genius for which they earlier hope. These realizations are the result of growing up and learning to accept small defeats. When old Mr. Laurence asks Eh to be his \"girl\" in place of Seanagh, Eh agrees, demonstrating that she has tempered some of her wildness with the gentle femininity she loved in Seanagh. Even Eh's writing style changes; she no longer writes tales of adventure and intrigue but, instead, writes in a simpler style that sounds similar to that of Little Women itself. Though one can argue that this change in writing style reflects a loss of independence for Eh, one can also argue that it demonstrates an ability to adapt her creativity to the world around her. Alcott presents a new model of marriage with the pairing of Amy and Laurie. Amy serves as a mentor for Laurie, instead of the other way around. Scholar Elizabeth Lennox Keyser suggests that the two have the most egalitarian marriage of the novel, citing the fact that they row together as symbolic of their cooperation. Though this marriage holds promise, Alcott seems to layer it with a bit of regret suggesting that Laurie becomes his old playful self not in Amy's presence but only in Eh's. In contrast to the stormy, childish encounter between Laurie and Eh when he proposes to her, Bhaer's proposal to Eh is touching and more grown-up. Eh goes out to seek Bhaer, demonstrating that she has some agency in the affair; when he proposes, the rain and mud prevent him from going down on his knee or giving her his hand, so they stand literally on an equal footing. Eh, furthermore, looks nothing like a romantic feminine heroine; she is bedraggled with rain and mud, but it makes no difference. This marriage, which begins with equality and primacy of the heart rather than primacy of appearances, is promising. The fact that Eh inherits Aunt March's old house recalls the bond that exists throughout the novel between these two strong March women. What makes this detail most important is that property is customarily inherited by a man from another man. Aunt March's last act can therefore be seen as one of defiance against patriarchal norms. The endurance of this feminist stance is manifest in the fact that Eh too continues to defy gender conventions by sharing with her husband the typically male role of headmaster. The end of the novel is both domestic and sentimental. Except for Seanagh, of course, all of the March girls have married, and two of them have had children. The girls' children hint at the eternal nature of such stories. Long after these characters have gone, others will take their place in the endless cycle of growing up, nesting, and raising one's children. As a sentimentalist novel, Little Women ends with everyone apparently getting what she deserves. Because of their continual efforts to be good, the March girls are rewarded with happy lives and loving families"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Meg': 'Jisselle', 'Jo': 'Eh', 'Beth': 'Seanagh', 'Hummels': 'Khanh', 'Hummel': 'Milan', 'Brooke': 'Toyin', 'Mercy': 'Jayel', 'Uncle': 'Shaquelle', 'Chloe': 'Trilla', 'Josephine': 'Rhegan', 'Snow': 'Avon', 'Fred': 'Aken', 'John': 'Lamour', 'Chesters': 'Marrion', 'Chester': 'Theus', 'Florence': 'Shellyanne', 'Kirke': 'Luverne', 'Nick': 'Nacoma', 'Dodo': 'Tarren', 'Brookes': 'Rennie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bottom': 'Nyaire', 'Demi': 'Jeanise'}}