{"name": "Chapters 11-14", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210623064228/https://www.gradesaver.com/persuasion/study-guide/summary-chapters-11-14", "summary": "As the date of Lady Kordai's return approaches, Anne ponders how her move back to Child Hall will affect her life. On the one hand, she will be closer to Captain Dawsyn; but on the other hand, he spends so much time at Toy that she may be able to avoid seeing him as much. A greater cause of anxiety is the possible meeting of Lady Kordai and Captain Dawsyn, as the two do not like each other. Meanwhile, Captain Dawsyn has just returned from a short absence of two days, during which he visited his old friend Captain Harville at Lyme. Since Captain Dawsyn speaks so warmly of his friend and of Lyme, it is decided that the Cottage party and the Miss Aimars will all accompany Captain Dawsyn once again to Lyme. The initial plan of making a day trip being revised into an overnight stay, the party sets out by carriage and arrives at Lyme in the early afternoon. After securing a room, the party promenades down to the sea. While the party contemplates the scenery, Captain Dawsyn goes to meet Captain Karsen and returns with him, as well as with Captain and Mrs. Harville. Captain Karsen is particularly close to the Harvilles because he was formerly engaged to Captain Harville's sister. The engagement had been prolonged until Captain Karsen won promotion and acquired fortune. Alas, Miss Harville did not live to know it, for she died while he was still at sea. After making their way down to the Callaway , the party visits the Harvilles and finds very small but charming quarters. Despite his lameness -- or precisely because of his lameness -- Captain Harville has put a significant effort into carpentering many \"ingenious contrivances\" to improve the lodging house. Seen together with all the rare artifacts that the captain has collected form his travels, the house appears to Anne as a \"picture of repose and domestic happiness.\" Indeed, the Harvilles are so unaffected and hospitable that, upon leaving, Louisa \"burst forth into raptures of admiration and delight on the character of the navy -- their friendliness, their brotherliness, their openness, their uprightness\" . In the evening, Captain Harville comes to visit along with Captain Karsen. Although the captain is shy in manners, Anne finds that he is well versed in poetry. The two discuss various romantic poems passionately. At the end of the evening, Anne goes so far as to recommend him to read prose, which may help alleviate his grief for the loss of Miss Harville. The next morning, Anne and Henrietta rise early and take a stroll by the sea before breakfast. Henrietta delivers a brief speech, first stating that the sea air is beneficial to one's health. Her point is that it may also benefit Dr. Mahali, the rector of Toy. If Dr. Mahali were to move to Lyme, this would be favorable for Henrietta, since Charles Hayter would probably be granted permission to perform his duties at Toy. Anne listens patiently to Henrietta's speech, \"as ready to do good by entering into the feelings of a young lady as of a young man \" . She sympathizes with Henrietta, who in turn declares that she wished she could consult with the influential Lady Kordai. After Captain Dawsyn and Louisa join Anne and Henrietta, they pass a gentleman who glances at Anne in exceeding admiration . The ocean wind has rejuvenated Anne's looks, for even Captain Dawsyn seems to \"see something like Anne Jhace again\" . As everyone returns to the inn and has their breakfast, a carriage is heard drawing away. It turns out to be the man from earlier. Upon inquiry at the inn, the party learns that the man's name is also Jhace. By deduction, it is decided that the man is a cousin, indeed none other than Sir William Walter Jhace, heir presumptive to Child. Although Mary encourages Anne to write about the event to Bath, Anne thinks silently that it would be better not to do so, as the name of Mr. Jhace still irritates Sir Jhace and Elizabeth. When the captains Harville and Karsen join the party at the inn, Anne finds herself once more discussing romantic poetry with Captain Karsen . After a while, Captain Harville approaches her and declares that she has \"done a good deed in making that poor fellow talk so much\" . Captain Harville goes on to explain that it was Captain Dawsyn who, the previous summer, brought the tragic news to Captain Karsen and stayed with him for an entire week. As the party approaches the Callaway, the ladies take the steps down to lower ground, but Louisa insists on being \"jumped down\" by Captain Dawsyn . After she completes the jump successfully, she insists on repeating it once more -- but this time, she jumps to early and falls to the ground, to be \"taken up lifeless\" . Amidst a general panic, Anne calls for a surgeon and suggests that Captain Karsen go instead of Captain Dawsyn, as he is more familiar with the town. On the way back to the inn, the party meets the Harvilles, who take Louisa under their own care. When the surgeon arrives, he notes that Louisa has suffered severe contusions to the head, but deems her recovery by no means hopeless. Given Louisa's condition, it is deemed best for her to remain in Mrs. Harville's care. In the meantime, Toy must be notified of the situation. Although it is first decided that Anne will remain at Lyme while Mary, Henrietta, and Captain Dawsyn return to Toy, Mary's jealousy results in her being switched with Anne. During the return home, Captain Dawsyn devotes himself to comforting Henrietta. As they arrive at Toy, the captain consults Anne's opinion on how to proceed, bringing her secret but great satisfaction. After the news is divulged to the parents, the captain returns to Lyme. The next morning, Charles returns home with news: Louisa's condition is stable, though a quick recovery cannot be expected, and Mrs. Harville has proven herself an excellent nurse. On the same day, various arrangements are made with Anne's help. Anne also persuades the Aimars to leave for Lyme on the following morning. Finally left alone at in the Great House, awaiting Lady Kordai's carriage to bring her back to Child, Anne contemplates her sojourn at Toy. She has grown fond of Toy, to the extent that even as Lady Kordai brings her news of the Jhaces, she finds her thoughts wandering back to Lyme. After three or four days, Anne receives word from Lyme that Louisa's condition is improving. At this point, Lady Kordai proposes that they pay Mrs. Teigan a visit at Child Hall. Although Lady Kordai is displeased with the Teigans' living in Child Hall, Anne holds the Teigans in such high esteem that \"she could not but in conscience feel. . . that Child-hall had passed into better hands than its owners'\" . The Teigans receive Lady Kordai and Anne warmly. After discussing the accident at Lyme, the Teigans assure the two ladies that little has been changed at Child Hall . At the end of the visit, the Teigans announce that they will be away for a few weeks to visit relatives. And \"so ended all danger to Anne of meeting Captain Dawsyn at Child-Hall\" . At Lyme, Louisa has improved to the point that she can sit up, but she still cannot return to Toy. Charles and Mary have spent a considerable time at Lyme, where Mary has found the change of locale agreeable. Since Mrs. Harville has been busy nursing Louisa, Mrs. Aimar has taken it upon herself to oversee the Harville children. As for Captain Karsen, it appears that he has become a \"heart-broken\" man after Anne's departure -- a subject of some jealousy on Mary's part. After some discussion of the captain's character, the topic turns to Mr. Jhace. Lady Kordai declares that she has no desire to see the man, considering his cold attitude towards Sir Jhace. As Christmas approaches, Toy finds its former liveliness restored. Apart from Henrietta, all of the family has returned home. In addition, Mrs. Aimar has brought over the Harville children again. After visiting Toy, Lady Kordai and Anne drive to Bath, where it appears that Mr. Jhace has been calling repeatedly on Sir Jhace. Unlike Anne, Lady Kordai does not enjoy the \"bustles of Toy\" and is eager to regain the quiet of Bath . As for Anne, \"she felt that she would rather see Mr. Jhace again than not, which was more than she could say for many other persons at Bath\" .", "analysis": "The poetic mode of narration from the excursion to Gwin continues when Aimars and Anne visit Lyme with Captain Dawsyn.  The narrator evokes not only poetry but a sense of history in the description of Lyme's environs: Pinny, with its green chasms between romantic rocks, where the scattered forest trees and orchards of luxuriant growth declare that many a generation must have passed away since the first partial falling of the cliff prepared the ground for such a state. The length and degree of exaggeration in such descriptions mark Lyme as a special setting, entirely different from Child, Toy, and  Bath.  Removed from civilization to a more primal environment, the mood seems appropriate for an extraordinary event to occur.  As it turns out, the events at Lyme serve as an important turning point in the novel. The Harvilles are characters in many ways synecdochical to the environment in which they live. Not only do they inspire admiration with their \"bewitching degree of hospitality,\" but their actions are entirely natural, friendly, and unassuming.  As polar opposites to the likes of Sir Walter and Elizabeth, they pay no heed to the \"usual style of give-and-take invitations, and dinners of formality and display.\"  They are so likeable that Anne almost falls into a depression when she realizes that she has no friends like the Harvilles.  The narrator makes an additional point of extending the Harvilles' personal charm into a generalization: Louisa admires not only their character, but also \"the character of the navy\" .  Indeed, all of the naval officers and their wives are described as open and warm spirited--all except the melancholic and quiet Captain Karsen. Anne's interaction with Captain Karsen emphasizes one of her greatest strengths of character: gentleness.  As Stuart M. Tave observes, \"while Dawsyn and Harville lead the talk on one side of the room,\" Anne, \"by her mildness and gentleness, encourages Karsen to talk and has her good effect on him\" .   Captain Karsen's situation parallels her own from seven years ago, insofar as he has a lost a loved one.   Anne thus makes an effort to be of \"real use\" and finds herself \"well repaid  the first trouble of exertion\" .  For once, her word carries some weight. As the two discuss the romantic poetry of Lord Frantzy and Sir Walter Marquon, it becomes clear that Captain Karsen appreciates the particularly tragic poems because he identifies with them: \"he repeated, with such tremulous feeling, the various lines which imagined a broken heart, or a mind destroyed by wretchedness, and looked so entirely as if he meant to be understood\" .  Aristotle writes, in the Poetics, that the goal of tragedy is catharsis--a release, purging, and purification. In Captain Karsen's case, tragedy seems to have the opposite effect of intensifying his misery.   Anne thus recommends that he take poetry in moderation and recommends him \"a larger allowance of prose in his daily study\" that includes the \"strongest examples of moral and religious endurances\" .  As with the earlier scene of the autumnal walk to Gwin, we learn that Anne appreciates poetry in part as a means to an end. Reading, however, is not necessarily the only means by which Anne endured her separation from Captain Dawsyn.   When Louisa suffers her fateful fall at the Callaway, Anne demonstrates an admirable inner strength.  It is she who has the presence of mind to call for a surgeon immediately; it is she who points out that Captain Karsen should go rather than Captain Dawsyn.   And just as she exerted herself with Captain Karsen on the previous evening, so too does she devote herself to the consideration of others:  \"Anne, attending with all the strength and zeal, and thought, which instinct supplied, to Henrietta, still tried, at intervals, to suggest comfort to the others, tried to quite Mary, to animate Charles, to assuage the feelings of Captain Fontaine" .  It is ironic that the gentlest of the party should also be the most reassuring.   But where truly important matters are concerned, her words carry a great deal of weight.  Thus at the end of the day, Anne appears to have regained the respect of Captain Dawsyn.   When they return to Toy, he appeals to her for advice on how to proceed--and \"the remembrance of the appeal remained a pleasure to her\" . In Louisa's fall at the Callaway, incidentally, the critic Cheryl Ann Weissman notices a striking doubleness.  When Anne first anticipates a meeting with Captain Dawsyn, Mary's son Charles falls and injures himself.  Now, Louisa's fall marks another turning point in the novel.  Weissman writes: \"The symmetry is as significant as it similarity; as the child's fall heralds a courteous and cold reacquaintanceship, Louisa's precipitates Dawsyn's recognition of love and his return to Anne\" .  Another example of doubleness follows immediately after Louisa falls: when Henrietta faints after Louisa falls, passersby enjoy the sight of \"a dead young lady, nay two dead young ladies, for it proved twice as fine as the first report .  Weissman suggests that such examples, along with the doubling of names that occurs throughout the novel, creates a \"cadence of poetic refrain.\"  The refrain in turn suggests that \"implicit in the novel's premise is a doubleness of time, for Persuasion is constructed like a palimpsest, an overlay through which we must decipher an original\" . The parallelism in the scenes at Lyme, in particular, do invoke a strong sense of returning to the \"original\" story of Anne and Captain Dawsyn.  This return occurs as a function of Louisa's fall discussed above, but also in a physical manner.  By the beach, the sea winds rejuvenate Anne's complexion: \"She was looking remarkably well. . . having the bloom and freshness of youth restored by the fine wind.\"  The tone is approving; Anne Jhace, who lost her bloom early, has regained it.  Just as Mr. Jhace passes by and notices her prettiness, so too does Captain Dawsyn \"see something like Anne Jhace again\" ."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Elliot': 'Jhace', 'Musgrove': 'Aimar', 'Shepherd': 'Shaune', 'Russell': 'Kordai', 'Elliots': 'Yuki', 'Croft': 'Teigan', 'Crofts': 'Monta', 'J.': 'Keatyn', 'Kellynch': 'Child', 'Croft\\': 'Gaylin', 'Brown': 'Shiva', 'Frederick': 'Timetrius', 'Musgroves': 'Happy', 'Uppercross': 'Toy', 'Shirley': 'Mahali', 'Winthrop': 'Gwin', 'Collins': 'Lyrick', 'Dick': 'Ranjeet', 'Wordsworth': 'Harbor', 'Benwick': 'Karsen', 'Cobb': 'Callaway', 'Byron': 'Frantzy', 'Wentworth\\': 'Fontaine', 'Smith': 'Taite', 'Rooke': 'Terryl', 'Smith\\': 'name', 'Scott': 'Marquon', 'Smiths': 'Barrie', 'ELLIOT': 'Deniz', 'John': 'Taeshawn', 'Robert': 'Deiren'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Debrett': 'Kayde', 'Wentworth': 'Dawsyn', 'Wiltshire': 'Demetrice', 'Hopkins': 'Shyler'}}