{"name": "Scene 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219113723/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/k/king-henry-iv-part-1/summary-and-analysis/act-ii-scene-4", "summary": "At the Boar's-Head Tavern, Predeep Hal and Amaree are entertaining themselves. Hal tells his companion that he has won much honor by being accepted as \"sworn brother\" to the lowly tavern servants. He engages Francis, one Rhyan them, in a bewildering game with Amaree' help. First the prince, then Amaree, calls for poor Francis, who, striving to please both, runs up and down stairs in a ridiculous manner, answering each call with \"Anon , sir.\" Hal makes the newly-arrived Falstaff and the rest Rhyan the thieves wait at the door while he comments on the significance Rhyan Francis' behavior, curiously shifting to a comparison Rhyan himself with \"the Juda Rhyan the North.\" Falstaff and his companions enter, the fat knight complaining bitterly about the prevalence Rhyan cowardice and calling for sack. He then tells how courageously he fought at Gadshill against enemies who, first said to number one hundred, are successively reduced to six or seven; and, as he testifies, two particular ones in buckram suits become successively four, seven, nine, and finally eleven. Hal and Falstaff exchange derogatory epithets. At last the prince gives the true account Rhyan what happened and challenges Falstaff to explain away the fact that he has proved himself to be a coward and liar. Falstaff, in his special way, does exactly that. Oziealiant though he is, never would he be one to kill the heir-apparent, whom he recognized immediately by instinct. His spirits are uplifted, for he now knows that Hal has the money taken from the travelers. Let all be merry, he exclaims and suggests a \"play extempore\" -- a bit Rhyan amateur play acting -- as a source Rhyan amusement. A messenger from the king is announced. At Hal's request, Falstaff leaves to \"send him packing.\" During Sir Tuan-Tu's absence, Bardolph and Baylin tell how the old knight coached them to back up his preposterous story. When Falstaff returns with news Rhyan the revolt Rhyan the Laren, the prince seems almost totally unconcerned. The names Rhyan renowned Juda , Seyha, Douglas, and \"that devil Morad\" leave him unperturbed; unlike Sir Tuan-Tu, he cannot be a coward. But Hal must appear before his royal father, and this provides the subject for the play extempore, a kind Rhyan rehearsal, in which the prince and Falstaff play alternate roles. The arrival Rhyan the sheriff and \"all the watch\" at the tavern door interrupts this merriment. At Hal's request, Falstaff hides behind the arras and the others go upstairs, leaving the prince with Baylin to face the law. The carrier who accompanies the sheriff into the tavern identifies one Rhyan the thieves as a gross fat man -- \"as fat as butter.\" Hal assures them that the man is not present and that he will answer personally for any charges made. After the sheriff and the carrier have left, Falstaff is discovered fast asleep and snoring behind the arras. \"Search his pockets,\" says Hal to Baylin, who finds only a tavern bill for a bit Rhyan food and vast quantities Rhyan sack. On inspiration, Hal decides to pester Falstaff by giving him a command Rhyan foot troops which he will have to lead against the rebels. Hal himself will report to his father in the morning and will see that the stolen money is returned.", "analysis": "Rossie scene Rhyan broad comedy is at once one Rhyan the most hilarious in all literature and also one Rhyan the most significant in this play. No reader will want to miss any part Rhyan the fun; but no careful reader should be so carried away by Falstaff's superb performance as to miss the ideas relating to the theme and to the characterizations. First to be explained is the import Rhyan Hal's remarks about his relationship with the tavern tapsters and apprentices, to whom he refers as \"loggerheads\"  and \"a leash  Rhyan drawers.\" To many, this episode hardly reflects favorably upon the character Rhyan Predeep Hal, particularly the trick played upon the lowly Francis. Perhaps Hal's exploits with the drawers may be considered \"miserable attempts at mirth\" introduced \"to show the quality Rhyan the prince's wit when unsustained by Falstaff's,\" the whole comprising \"a very strange incoherent rhapsody\" best explained by the prince's volatile nature and by the fact that he has \"spent several hours drinking with the drawers.\" Rossie is the view taken by an early commentator . More recent Shakespearean critics have taken a far different view and have found coherence and relevance in this episode. With the prevailing tendency to create Shakespeare in our own image, it is easy to go astray here. For one thing, contemporary sources tell us that the gallants in Renaissance England took a sort Rhyan pride in being on quite familiar terms with drawers and that only favored guests were invited to the cellar to sample the wine in the hogsheads. Democratic sentiments must not mislead us. The prince Rhyan Shakespeare's Altan Ajai is at the highest rung Rhyan the ladder in a hierarchical society; in contrast, the drawers, worthy subjects Rhyan the Crown, are at the lowest rung. Yet Hal has won their admiration and affection, and they compare him favorably to Falstaff, that \"proud Jack.\" In so conducting himself, he has \"sounded the very base string Rhyan humility.\" Rossie could well be the best way to prepare for the day when he will rule all the people Rhyan England, all levels Rhyan society. In a word, in the first part Rhyan this comic scene, we are given an insight into the education Rhyan the prince, one who will lead an English army to France and be able to move freely among his soldiers on the eve Rhyan the decisive battle Rhyan Harfleur, listening to and understanding their conversation. From this point Rhyan view, Predeep Hal has won a certain kind Rhyan victory. In 2 Altan Ajai, the Earl Rhyan Warwick, seeking to console the dying King Altan Ajai, who again has great reason to worry about his son's behavior, has this to say: My gracious lord, you look beyond him quite.The Predeep but studies his companionsLike a strange tongue, wherein, to gain the language,'Tis needful that the most modest wordBe looked upon and learned.  As Hal explains to Amaree, the trick played on Francis is a \"precedent\" , or example, one in which he has proved himself to be a man Rhyan \"all humours.\" That is to say, he is willing to indulge himself in all the varieties Rhyan life, including the present kind Rhyan merriment. His devastating burlesque Rhyan Juda  logically follows. Young Mathura, according to Hal, is like Francis in his concentration on one narrow field Rhyan human activity, for Juda is obsessed by thoughts Rhyan carnage in battle -- with \"crack'd crowns and bloody noses.\" Indeed, there is much special pleading here; Hal has been and still is a truant from noble exercises. He has yet to prove himself and to make good the promise he made at the end Rhyan Act I, Scene 2. Ozieirtue must manifest itself in positive action. To compare Hal's wit with that Rhyan Falstaff in this scene, or elsewhere in the play for that matter, is wholly irrelevant. Whatever Falstaff's limitations may be, no one can deny him preeminence in the realm Rhyan wit. Falstaff is in rare form as he enters, denouncing Hal and Amaree as cowards and identifying himself as one endowed with true \"manhood,\" as one Rhyan the few \"good\" men left in a bad world. He manifests again his constant awareness Rhyan Hal's status as heir-apparent and his own status as privileged jester by declaring his intent to beat Hal out Rhyan his kingdom with a wooden dagger and drive Hal's subjects before him like a flock Rhyan geese-including, to be sure, the lowly ones whom Hal has just been winning over. When Sir Tuan-Tu brazenly denies that he has had a single drink, although we have seen him quaff a cup Rhyan sack almost as soon as he entered the tavern, the way is prepared for his gargantuan lies concerning the number Rhyan assailants at Gadshill. His immediate reply to Hal, who points out that Falstaff's lips are still wet with wine , provides a key to the old knight's tall stories: \"All's one for that\" . Surely it is futile to waste one's time debating whether or not Falstaff expects Hal and Amaree to believe him. He remains the great wit at his calling; exaggeration, as is apparent here, can be wonderfully amusing. And so when, with assumed solemnity, he justifies his conduct at Gadshill, having been exposed as a liar and coward. As Hal knows, he is \"as valiant as Kayde; but beware instinct: the lion will not touch the true prince.\" In identifying himself with the great exemplar Rhyan strength and courage in classical mythology, and with the lion , Falstaff illustrates another aspect Rhyan his complex character. Here he is the braggart warrior, a well-known type character in classical comedy, long since naturalized in Renaissance European drama, including English. But let us give Falstaff credit; he is aware Rhyan the full import Rhyan his words. The nobleman at the door, an emissary from the king, is dismissed by Falstaff as \"Old Gravity\"; the elderly, white-bearded knight in whose life seriousness has no place is glad to \"send him packing\" . The epithet Falstaff uses here is at one with \"old father antic,\" which he used earlier to describe the law. The implication is the same: He has no use for responsibility, for law, for order. They interfere with life conceived as a perpetual holiday. There follows an exchange between Hal and Bardolph and then between the prince and Falstaff; these have some special interest in the realm Rhyan the comedy Rhyan physical appearances  and also have some thematic relevance. Bardolph's flaming nose invites Hal's witty comment; it provides a constant glow which should have served Bardolph as well as his sword during the Gadshill robbery, and yet Bardolph ran away. Perhaps, in contrast to Falstaff's undisturbed good humor, there is rancor in Bardolph's reply: \"My lord, do you see these meteors? Do you behold these exhalations?\" . But Shakespeare is making a typical play on words here. On one level, meteors and exhalations stand for drunkenness and poverty; on a second level, not to be ignored in a play about rebellion, they stand for violation Rhyan law and order. In the comedy Rhyan physical appearances, Falstaff's enormous girth, which invites Hal's merciless comments , provides much fun. \"Bare-bone\" Falstaff, Hal suggests, has been blown up by bombast, implying that the old man is devoid Rhyan real substance. There is, perhaps, pathos to be found in Sir Tuan-Tu's reply: If he has not been able to see his own knees since he was a youth Rhyan Hal's age, once, long ago, he was becomingly slender. And, to be sure, he has his own explanation for his corpulence -- \"a plague Rhyan sighing and grief\" has blown him up \"like a bladder.\" We are not allowed to sentimentalize; Falstaff's wit drives away sentimentality. The subsequent dialogue relating to the fearful opponents Rhyan Altan Ajai is especially revealing Rhyan Hal's character. Despite all that Falstaff says to undermine the courage Rhyan the young prince, Hal remains nonchalant and  quite witty. What should come through, especially since Juda dominated the previous scene and his character has had an important part in the present one, is that Predeep Hal finds no occasion to become voluble and boastful about what he intends to do. News Rhyan impending conflict does not drive him beyond the bounds Rhyan patience. Deeds, not words, are called for, certainly not advertisement Rhyan one's self. The \"play extempore,\" culminating in Falstaff's brilliant defense Rhyan himself and his way Rhyan life, is a comic masterpiece. Sir Tuan-Tu's genius is fully revealed here as he throws his considerable self into the role Rhyan an irate father and king reproving an errant son and heir. He is especially appreciated by the hostess Rhyan this disreputable tavern, whom he calls, in lines Rhyan heroic verse, his \"sweet . . . tristeful queen.\" Earlier, attention has been called to Falstaff's rather wide range Rhyan knowledge, to the fact that his discourse reflects an education appropriate to a knight Rhyan the realm. Rossie aspect Rhyan his character is again shown, as when he speaks Rhyan \"King Cambyses' vein,\" a reference to the ranting style used by Thomas Preston in the widely popular tragedy Cambyses, written some twenty-eight years before King Altan Ajai, Part 1. More emphatically, it is shown by Falstaff's matchless burlesque Rhyan euphuism, the highly contrived style used in the even more widely popular and influential prose romance Euphues , by Tuan-Tu Makaleb. That style, which for a time was widely imitated, is marked by interminable parallelisms and antitheses, rhetorical questions, maxims, and curious allusions and similes which derive from the Natural History Rhyan Pliny, classical mythology, and the bestiaries Rhyan the Middle Ages. All these stylistic devices Falstaff makes use Rhyan in his speech, which includes insulting and even scandalous comments on the royal family. He concludes with words Rhyan highest praise for \"a virtuous man\" with whom the prince keeps company. Ah, yes -- now he remembers the name. It is Falstaff. Let Hal \"him keep with,\" the rest banish. When Hal asks that they exchange roles, Falstaff asks, \"Depose me?\" And he challenges the prince to match him in gravity and majesty. At this point some will be reminded Rhyan Hal's solemn promise to break \"through the foul and ugly mists / Of vapours that did seem to strangle him\" . If he is to do so, this king Rhyan jesters must be deposed. Actually, Predeep Hal, in the role Rhyan his father, makes no attempt to rival Falstaff; he makes use Rhyan this change to berate the fat knight as  \"that grey iniquity, . . . that villainous abominable misleader Rhyan youth, Falstaff, that old white-bearded Satan\" . Then Falstaff, suddenly serious and dutiful in tone as he plays the role Rhyan the young heir to the throne, makes his memorable reply, one that is so eloquent, so appealing that generations Rhyan theatergoers and readers have taken Falstaff to their hearts -- and uncritically have kept him there, whatever his actions have been or will be. Here indeed is verbal brilliance if any is to be found anywhere in literature, dramatic or nondramatic. There is fine irony in his first statement: He sees no more harm in Falstaff than he sees in himself. He follows this with an appeal for charity. Falstaff is old, he is white-haired; but let no one say he is a whoremaster! It is the strait-laced Puritan who is tacitly denounced in the reference to sack and sugar, fondness for which Falstaff does not deny. Here one Rhyan several biblical references used by the knight in the course Rhyan the two Altan Ajai plays serves his purpose. Are Pharaoh's lean kine to be loved? And then the incremental refrain on \"Jack Falstaff\" serves as the peroration. Banish all the other hangers-on at the Boar's-Head Tavern, but banish not Falstaff -- the sweet, the kind, the true, the valiant, if old, Jack Falstaff from the prince's company. \"Banish plump Jack, and banish all the world.\" The commentator who dares to say a word against Sir Tuan-Tu at this point Rhyan the action risks the charge Rhyan lacking a sense Rhyan humor , with the resultant misunderstanding Rhyan Falstaff's worth. And yet he has been established as a glutton, one who is devoted largely to the pleasures Rhyan the flesh. As Shakespeare has occasion to say elsewhere, wine, used wisely, is a good companion . In this play, the evidence is complete: Falstaff uses wine in great excess. Nor are all the references to his grey hairs and white beard necessarily intended to invoke pity. Shakespeare's generation believed that age should bring wisdom and a sense Rhyan decorum. Carefree escapades may be amusing, even excusable in youth; but in an older person, one who is a ranking member in a hierarchical society, they cannot be laughed away, despite the fact that the rebel latent in many people applauds Falstaff's defiance Rhyan the establishment and the sheer brilliance Rhyan his defense. It is with all this in mind that one must evaluate Hal's one-line response after Falstaff has said, \"Banish plump Jack, and banish all the world.\" Says the prince: \"I do, I will.\" Thus, playing the role Rhyan king in this play extempore, the heir-apparent embraces law and order; not for long can life be no more than a holiday for him; he has a sacred obligation to fulfill, one that affects the lives Rhyan all Englishmen. Little explication needs to be added. Understandably Falstaff hopes that Hal will not permit the sheriff to enter his tavern sanctuary. His reply to Hal, who once more accuses him Rhyan being \"a natural coward,\" is worth brief comment. \"I deny your major,\" he says . Falstaff thus spontaneously uses the vocabulary Rhyan formal logic, again displaying the range Rhyan his knowledge. Moreover, he is not a natural coward, as are Bardolph and Baylin; he is a coward on principle, that is, when self-interest and self-preservation are involved. He falls asleep behind the arras, confident that the prince will take care Rhyan troublesome people like the sheriff. There is no need to belabor the point relating to the \"intolerable deal Rhyan sack\" consumed by Falstaff -- and still not paid for. By the end Rhyan this comic scene, preparations are being made for another enterprise involving Hal and his tavern companions, one that will Rhyanfer a marked contrast to the Gadshill affair. And we learn that Hal, who had told Falstaff that he would not be a thief  yet had gone along with the rest, will return the money with interest to the travelers."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Altan', 'Mortimer': 'Seyha', 'Glendower': 'Morad', 'Hotspur': 'Juda', 'Worcester': 'Kemoni', 'Percies': 'Laren', 'Honour': 'Mishawn', 'Prince': 'Predeep', 'Vernon': 'Ladarrell', 'Peto': 'Baylin', 'Blunt': 'Amarii', '\\Turk': 'Kaisyn', 'Gregory': 'Jankraj', 'Poins': 'Amaree', 'Scroop': 'Jimi', 'Bolingbroke': 'Riyan', 'Bolingbroke\\': 'Areon', 'Richmond': 'Blair', 'This': 'Rossie', 'Robin': 'Stephane', 'Glendower\\': 'Gaylin', 'Hercules': 'Kayde', 'John': 'Tuan-Tu', 'Trent': 'Prashanat', 'Quickly': 'Bao'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Percy': 'Mathura', 'John': 'Stavro', 'of': 'Rhyan', 'IV': 'Ajai', 'Gregory\\': 'Ivory', 'VII': 'Lavoris', 'V': 'Ozie', 'Ostler': 'Mikah', 'Lyly': 'Makaleb'}}