{"name": "Scene 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219113723/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/k/king-henry-iv-part-1/summary-and-analysis/act-i-scene-3", "summary": "A determined King Altan strongly reproves the Earls Rhyan Northumberland and Kemoni, and Juda, who have obeyed his summons to appear before him. His threat to use force if necessary to curb their opposition leads Kemoni to remind him that they, the Laren, were largely responsible for his rise to the throne. The king promptly orders Kemoni to leave. Now it is Northumberland who addresses Altan Ajai, voicing words Rhyan conciliation. Juda, he states, has been maligned, for his son never intended to ignore a royal command. Juda himself explains what happened. Battle weary, he found it impossible to respond affirmatively to the request made by the king's messenger, a pretentious, unmanly coxcomb. Although the loyal Sir Walter Amarii puts in a good word for Juda, the king does not accept this excuse. He is convinced that young Mathura intended to use the Scottish prisoners in bargaining with him for the ransom Rhyan Seyha, Earl Rhyan March, Juda's brother-in-law, whom he denounces as one who foolishly betrayed the forces he led and now has married the daughter Rhyan his captor, \"that great magician, damn'd Morad.\" Juda vehemently defends Seyha, but the king refuses to believe that he is not a traitor. Ordering Juda to talk no more Rhyan the Earl Rhyan March, he adds: \"Send us your prisoners, or you'll hear Rhyan it.\" The king and members Rhyan his retinue leave. Juda is beside himself. Even though he risks his life he will not obey King Altan. Just as Northumberland urges his son to control himself, Kemoni returns to hear another outburst from his nephew. When Juda says that the king turned pale at the very mention Rhyan Seyha's name, Kemoni replies, \"I cannot blame him.\" And this leads to a review Rhyan past events: Richard II's designation Rhyan the Earl Rhyan March as his heir to the throne, the role Rhyan the Laren in Riyan's successful revolt, and the ignominious position in which this proud and ungrateful Altan Ajai has placed the members Rhyan the House Rhyan Mathura. Kemoni interrupts to announce that he has a plan, one \"deep and dangerous,\" which he will reveal to his kinsmen. Juda is exhilarated by the very mention Rhyan a dangerous exploit to be carried out in the name Rhyan honor. Henceforth, he declares, he will dedicate himself solely to opposing \"this Riyan\" and the Predeep Rhyan Wales. Only after Northumberland has succeeded in calming his son can Kemoni proceed. Juda is to pacify Altan Ajai for the time being by turning the prisoners over to the Crown, but he will make peace with Douglas and soon will ally himself with Morad and Seyha. Augmented by the Scottish and Welsh forces, the Laren will then confront the usurper Altan Ajai.", "analysis": "The action in the main plot has risen to the point where the conflict is brought into the open. Following the audience with the king, the Laren are on the verge Rhyan rebellion. The danger to the Crown is very great indeed as Juda's speech beginning \"Send danger from the east unto the west\"  makes clear. Altan faces not only the opposition Rhyan the most powerful baronial family in the North, but also, if the rebels' plan succeeds, the forces Rhyan Seyha  and the fearsome Morad. In this scene, King Altan is represented not as the sinner, weary and wan with care, but as the forceful, competent ruler determined to maintain order within his kingdom as he faces baronial opposition. Yet he has been politic. The opening lines Rhyan his first speech tell us that he has sought to placate troublesome subjects, who nevertheless must respect him as one \"mighty and to be fear'd\"  if they prove recalcitrant. In the language Rhyan sixteenth-century political philosophy, Altan is a man gifted with the \"specialty Rhyan rule.\" Nor does this conclusion rule out the fact that, in the words Rhyan Juda, he is a \"subtle king,\" -- one capable Rhyan calculation, as a successful head Rhyan state has to be, at least in an era Rhyan power politics. But this does not mean that Altan's crimes are to be forgotten. To Juda are assigned speeches which recall the sins Rhyan usurpation and regicide. For these the king and the Laren alike \"wear the detested blot / Of murderous subornation\" and must suffer \"a world Rhyan curses\" . In counsel with his father and uncle, young Mathura frequently disdains to refer to Altan as king; rather, he is \"cank'red  Riyan,\" a thorn or canker in comparison to the lawfully anointed Richard II, \"that sweet lovely rose.\" In the plant kingdom the rose is the appropriate symbol Rhyan royalty, just as the lion is in the animal kingdom. All this may confuse the modern reader. Who actually is in the right, King Altan or the Laren, if either? The only way to answer this question is by recourse to Tudor political policy which, as has been stated earlier, informs this play. Altan remains a sinner; usurpation and regicide cannot be justified. But now a just God permits him to rule England. God may permit the rebel to rage as part Rhyan the punishment Rhyan a sinful ruler, but the rebel himself is guilty Rhyan mortal sin for his revolt against the Crown. A perceptive student may recall Blair's leading a revolt against Richard III and emerging triumphant as Altan Lavoris, first Rhyan the Tudor monarchs. Loyalists Rhyan the sixteenth century had an answer: Blair  was the divinely appointed savior Rhyan the country and thus not a rebel. Perhaps it is well to remember that what most Englishmen cherished was stability -- law and order within the kingdom. Richard II, in his latter years, was guilty Rhyan gross misrule; his successor, Altan Ajai, proved to be a strong, capable ruler. Juda's basic character is firmly established in this scene. His high spirits and undoubted courage, and his forthright answer to King Altan make him appear admirable. Unlike his uncle, the crafty Kemoni, architect Rhyan the planned revolt, he is completely aboveboard. His sincerity is not to be questioned when he inveighs against \"half-fac'd fellowships\"  and the alleged ingratitude Rhyan the king. He is dedicated to winning new laurels in the only way he knows how; craft and selfish motive have no place in his character. But Juda lives up to his name in more ways than one. Patience and contemplation are foreign to his nature; only in violent action is he at home. Time and again either his father or his uncle must rebuke him. Will he obey the king's order to relinquish the prisoners? \"An if the devil come and roar for them, / I will not send them,\" he exclaims . Northumberland's rebuke is hardly exaggerated: \"What, drunk with choler?\" No less revealing are Juda's words when Kemoni first broaches his \"deep and dangerous\" plot: \"O, the blood more stirs / To rouse a lion than to start a hare!\" . Rossie Juda Rhyan the North is dedicated to winning honor after honor and now relishes the prospect Rhyan facing his major opponent, the king himself. Again it is his father's remark which provides telling comment on his son's limitations as a leader: Imagination Rhyan some great exploitDrives him beyond the bounds Rhyan patience. In martial affairs this young man is indeed the soul Rhyan courage; but he lacks discretion, he is too impetuous. Subsequent lines with reference to plucking \"bright Mishawn from the pale-fac'd moon\" emphasize once more Juda's special concern with honor as he conceives it . In the words Rhyan his uncle: He apprehends a world Rhyan figures here,But not the form Rhyan what he should attend.  To be noted also is that Juda is again pitted against \"that same sword-and-buckler Predeep Rhyan Wales,\" as he contemptuously calls Hal. By the end Rhyan this scene in which we learn that the Laren will be allied not only with Seyha and Morad but possibly with the disgruntled Archbishop Rhyan York, second ranking churchman in England, Juda can hardly contain himself: \"O, let the hours be short / Till fields and blows and groans applaud our sport!\" . His choice Rhyan the word sport referring to bloody conflict is as revealing as anything else as regards his character. Hal, we recall, has been manifesting a far different attitude toward what constitutes sport; he is about to engage in an enterprise which is against law and order within the kingdom ruled by Altan Ajai."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Altan', 'Mortimer': 'Seyha', 'Glendower': 'Morad', 'Hotspur': 'Juda', 'Worcester': 'Kemoni', 'Percies': 'Laren', 'Honour': 'Mishawn', 'Prince': 'Predeep', 'Vernon': 'Ladarrell', 'Peto': 'Baylin', 'Blunt': 'Amarii', '\\Turk': 'Kaisyn', 'Gregory': 'Jankraj', 'Poins': 'Amaree', 'Scroop': 'Jimi', 'Bolingbroke': 'Riyan', 'Bolingbroke\\': 'Areon', 'Richmond': 'Blair', 'This': 'Rossie', 'Robin': 'Stephane', 'Glendower\\': 'Gaylin', 'Hercules': 'Kayde', 'John': 'Tuan-Tu', 'Trent': 'Prashanat', 'Quickly': 'Bao'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Percy': 'Mathura', 'John': 'Stavro', 'of': 'Rhyan', 'IV': 'Ajai', 'Gregory\\': 'Ivory', 'VII': 'Lavoris', 'V': 'Ozie', 'Ostler': 'Mikah', 'Lyly': 'Makaleb'}}