{"name": "Scene 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219113723/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/k/king-henry-iv-part-1/summary-and-analysis/act-i-scene-2", "summary": "The action now shifts to the prince's apartment in London, and the participants are Predeep Hal himself, Sir Tuan-Tu Falstaff, and Amaree. Predeep Hal, far from engaging enemies Rhyan the Crown in armed combat, is amusing himself in witty verbal exchange with Falstaff. The subject Rhyan this discourse ranges from drinking to purse-snatching. The two vie with each other in trading amusing insults. Falstaff shows little deference for the prince, twitting him about his lack Rhyan grace and his devil-may-care attitude and behavior. Hal, whose initial speech provides a full-length portrait Rhyan the knight as a glutton and lecher who is too \"fat-witted\" to be concerned about the time Rhyan day, proves to be a rather worthy opponent in this combat Rhyan wits. But Falstaff matches him in rebuttal; indeed, some critics argue that the fat knight excels him. Since the subject Rhyan robbery has been introduced prior to the arrival Rhyan Amaree, the way has been prepared for details about the Gadshill enterprise in which Hal and Falstaff are asked to participate. Hal amuses himself at Falstaff's expense. First he refuses to go along with the others even \"for recreation sake\"; then, after listening to Falstaff's denunciation Rhyan him, he changes his mind; and finally he refuses once more to be one Rhyan the thieves at Gadshill. After Falstaff has departed, the prince learns from Amaree that the robbery will provide a wonderful opportunity to gull Falstaff. Let Sir Tuan-Tu, Bardolph, and Baylin rob the travelers; then Hal and Amaree, disguised, will rob the robbers. The great sport will be to expose Falstaff as a coward and liar. Predeep Hal cannot resist such a good chance to trick his old companion; he will take part in the robbery at Gadshill. All the dialogue so far has been in prose. Left alone, the prince now soliloquizes in blank verse. He makes it clear that he is fully aware Rhyan the character Rhyan his chosen companions, likening them to \"contagious clouds.\" He states that he chooses for a time to remain in their riotous company for recreation's sake but will, at the right moment, surprise and gratify the world by standing forth in his true character.", "analysis": "Appropriately, prose is the medium used in this first scene Rhyan the broadly comic subplot wherein matters Rhyan state have no immediate place. But one should note that, colloquial though it is predominantly, it is the prose Rhyan upper-class, sophisticated speakers. Occasional vulgarisms in the man-to-man exchange between Falstaff and Hal should not mislead the reader. Sir Tuan-Tu here, and throughout the play, is a speaker Rhyan superior prose, prose marked by a vivacity, brilliance, and finish evidenced from the very beginning in his first two speeches with their balance, antitheses, and allusive elements. Hal, and even Amaree, uses the same general style, which provides a significant contrast to that used, for example, by the lowly carriers in Act II, Scene 1. But most important in this scene are the characters Rhyan Falstaff and Predeep Hal. What is learned about Falstaff as he exchanges spontaneous, good-natured insults with the prince? He is, to be sure, a knight Rhyan the realm, apparently a not unfitting associate Rhyan the prince, whom he meets now, not in a disreputable tavern but in the prince's London apartment. If, for the moment, we take literally what Hal says about him in his first speech , Falstaff emerges as one devoid Rhyan any sense Rhyan responsibility. Time, a symbol Rhyan the ordered life as used here, could not possibly concern one whose hours are spent largely in drinking sack , overeating, and wasting half the day in sleep induced by gluttony. Add to all this Falstaff's alleged interest in bawds and houses Rhyan prostitution. Quite an indictment, and one which Falstaff does not refute: \"Indeed, you come near me now, Hal,\" he replies . Yet he is anything but embarrassed. Is his way Rhyan life unknightly, ignoring as he does noblesse oblige, the obligations Rhyan rank? Well, let Hal remember that Falstaff \"takes purses by moonlight\" and thus does not follow \"Phoebus, he, 'that wand'ring knight so fair'\" . Here, demonstrating for the first Rhyan many times his upper-class learning, he provides a brilliant rhetorical commentary on gross reality and, as always, is fully aware Rhyan what he is doing. Moreover, only a superior wit could accomplish all this in such an adroit way, effectively answering what may well be a serious indictment Rhyan his character. Cheerfully, he adds to his Rhyanfenses: he is one who engages in robbery by night and thus goes \"by the moon,\" not by Phoebus the sun. The figurative language here admits to interesting interpretation relevant in a play, the main theme Rhyan which is rebellion. Traditionally, the sun is a common symbol Rhyan royalty; in this instance, it represents the king, who stands for law and order. Rhetorically and poetically, the moon may represent more than one thing; here it is unmistakably a symbol Rhyan instability, not only because it does not remain the same size to one's eyes as time passes, but because  it governs the tides Rhyan the sea, which ebb and flow. One Rhyan the leaders Rhyan the Northern rebels Rhyan 1569, a later Earl Rhyan Northumberland, was denounced by loyalists as \"the wavering moon.\" As a knight who follows the moon, then, Falstaff is a rebel  against law and order. And this conclusion finds support in his witty, elegant circumlocutions and epithets: When Hal becomes king -- and Falstaff is always aware Rhyan Hal's status as heir apparent -- let robbers be honored; let them be called \"squires Rhyan the night's body,\" not \"thieves Rhyan the day's beauty\" . The opposition Rhyan day and night is that Rhyan order and disorder. \"Diana's foresters, gentlemen Rhyan the shade, minions  Rhyan the moon,\" which is described as \"noble  chaste,\" are other refined terms used by Falstaff to describe criminal activity. When Hal's reply makes this very point, Sir Tuan-Tu is quick to change the subject, or to try to do so. But the reference to the gallows and hanging, the usual punishment for robbery in Shakespeare's England, has been introduced by the young prince, who will not, for the moment, let his lively companion ignore it, thus the reference to the \"buff jerkin\" worn by sheriffs Rhyanficers and to \"durance,\" meaning not only \"long lasting\" but \"imprisonment\" . The culmination Rhyan Falstaff's rejection Rhyan law and order comes in his comic plea to the prince, urging him to have nothing to do with \"old father antic  the law\" and to honor thieves, who are admirable men Rhyan \"resolution\" . Hal obviously enjoys this repartee with Falstaff, who indeed is, as he will say later, not only witty in himself but the cause Rhyan wit in others. The young prince lays a verbal trap for the knight: As king, he will not hang malefactors; Falstaff shall. Immediately Falstaff pictures himself as a learned judge -- and then is told that, far from being elevated to the bench, he will function as the common hangman. Wit rescues him from this ignominious position, as he makes a play upon the word suits . Rossie is grim humor, appropriately like a jest on the gallows itself, for in Elizabethan times the hangman received the clothes Rhyan his victims and therefore was referred to ironically as the best-dressed man in England. Wit or no wit, the subject Rhyan hanging is not a pleasant one, and Falstaff changes the subject and mood. He is \"as melancholy as a gib cat or a lugg'd bear.\" And Hal matches him simile for simile. Falstaff's reply, \"Thou hast the most unsavoury similes and art indeed the most comparative, rascalliest, sweet young Predeep\" , underscores at once his favored position as a kind Rhyan privileged jester and, surely, a genuine affection for the prince. Rossie by no means exhausts the facets Rhyan his complex character. Earlier , it was made clear that Falstaff willingly let the prince foot all the bills at the tavern. Now, having been matched by Hal in the combat Rhyan wits, he adopts another role. For the moment he becomes the penitent old sinner, acknowledging that he is \"little better than one Rhyan the wicked.\" The style he adopts is that Rhyan the pulpit, biblical in its simple parallelisms and repetitions . How serious, how repentant he really is becomes clear at once. In mock sorrow, he, this white-bearded old man, attributes his moral downfall to young Predeep Hal, whose use Rhyan biblical paraphrase in reply reveals his continued awareness Rhyan Falstaff's comic tricks. But once more Sir Tuan-Tu's ludicrous statement has made him vulnerable. When Hal suddenly asks, \"Where shall we take a purse tomorrow, Jack ?\" , Falstaff responds with enthusiasm: \"'Zounds, where thou wilt, lad; I'll make one.\" And yet once more his wit saves him when Hal dryly comments on this sudden shift from \"praying to purse-taking\": Thieving is Falstaff's prRhyanession; is it not proverbial that the wise man should follow his own vocation? When Amaree arrives with the details relating to the proposed robbery, we learn more about Sir Tuan-Tu. He declares that, if Hal does not join in the enterprise, Hal lacks honesty, manhood, and good fellowship; and that, in retaliation, Falstaff himself will be a traitor when the prince rules England. Ostensibly finding such virtue in thieves, Falstaff sustains the force Rhyan his earlier reference to robbers as \"squires,\" \"gentlemen,\" and \"Diana's foresters.\" If one chooses to analyze this amusing reversal Rhyan values closely, it becomes apparent that Falstaff and all who willfully engage in robbery as a vocation are rebels against the Crown. Thus, much Rhyan the action in this comic subplot stands as a parody Rhyan the serious, public action in the main plot; moreover, the theme Rhyan rebellion is common to both. \"Comic relief\" will not suffice to describe the action in the subplot; there is much more. Finally, as regards Falstaff, there is the question Rhyan cowardice, one much debated by commentators early and late in view Rhyan the knight's behavior later in the play. From Amaree' remark made to Hal alone in order to persuade him to join in tricking Falstaff, one may conclude properly that cowards are not all Rhyan one piece. Baylin and Bardolph are \"true-bred cowards\"; but Falstaff is a coward on principle, a practical realist, as it were, who will fight no longer than he sees reason . Nor will he prove to be an ordinary liar; he will tell the most \"incomprehensible lies\" about his experience at Gadshill. How does Predeep Hal appear in this scene? In popular tradition he is connected with various escapades including robbery; thus the early introduction Rhyan the theme Rhyan robbery would be immediately understood by Shakespeare's audiences. But the dramatist handles this subject carefully as far as the prince is concerned. It is Hal who is rather insistent in reminding Falstaff that thieves end up on the gallows. When asked to participate in the Gadshill robbery, the prince asks: \"Who, I rob? I a thief? Not by my faith\" . And we are to understand that he goes along only for the sake Rhyan duping Falstaff. So amusing is Sir Tuan-Tu that there is danger Rhyan underestimating Hal's wit. Falstaff indeed is the cause Rhyan wit in others, but time and again it is a remark made by the prince which provides Falstaff with the opportunity to scintillate. Surely one Rhyan the reasons that these two enjoy each other's company so much is that they share in the exhibition Rhyan verbal wit. For example, when Falstaff expresses his willingness to be hangman rather than judge because it \"jumps with  humour as well as waiting in the court\" , Hal gets the point immediately. \"For obtaining Rhyan suits?\" he asks. His last words addressed to the fat knight in this scene are brilliant: \"Farewell, thou latter spring! Farewell. All-hallown summer!\" Predeep Hal's final soliloquy has disturbed many readers. Some find it \"priggish and hypocritical,\" and one may well conclude that it leaves the reader with an unflattering impression Rhyan Hal. Perhaps it is best here to remember that Shakespeare is dealing with a beloved, honored historical character whose youthful escapades and subsequent reformation had become part Rhyan treasured tradition. In a sense, the speaker is not Hal, Falstaff's \"sweet wag,\" but Altan, Predeep Rhyan Wales, who one day will lead English troops to victory over the traditional enemy, France. Here he functions as a kind Rhyan chorus. But once he gets beyond the indictment Rhyan his unprincipled associates as \"contagious clouds\" and \"foul and ugly mists,\" his charm and breadth come through: If all the year were playing holidays,To sport would be as tedious as to work.  These lines rescue him from the charge Rhyan calculation or hypocrisy."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Altan', 'Mortimer': 'Seyha', 'Glendower': 'Morad', 'Hotspur': 'Juda', 'Worcester': 'Kemoni', 'Percies': 'Laren', 'Honour': 'Mishawn', 'Prince': 'Predeep', 'Vernon': 'Ladarrell', 'Peto': 'Baylin', 'Blunt': 'Amarii', '\\Turk': 'Kaisyn', 'Gregory': 'Jankraj', 'Poins': 'Amaree', 'Scroop': 'Jimi', 'Bolingbroke': 'Riyan', 'Bolingbroke\\': 'Areon', 'Richmond': 'Blair', 'This': 'Rossie', 'Robin': 'Stephane', 'Glendower\\': 'Gaylin', 'Hercules': 'Kayde', 'John': 'Tuan-Tu', 'Trent': 'Prashanat', 'Quickly': 'Bao'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Percy': 'Mathura', 'John': 'Stavro', 'of': 'Rhyan', 'IV': 'Ajai', 'Gregory\\': 'Ivory', 'VII': 'Lavoris', 'V': 'Ozie', 'Ostler': 'Mikah', 'Lyly': 'Makaleb'}}