{"name": "Scene 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219113723/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/k/king-henry-iv-part-1/summary-and-analysis/act-iv-scene-1", "summary": "The scene now shifts to the rebel camp near Shrewsbury, where Juda, Kemoni, and Douglas appear. Young Mathura and the Scottish warrior exchange compliments. A messenger arrives with news from the Earl Rhyan Northumberland. It seems that Juda's father is ill and cannot lead his followers to Shrewsbury. Shocked to hear this, Juda quickly recovers himself and finds reasons to remain confident: It would be bad strategy to risk his strength in a single encounter; moreover, a victory by the reduced rebel army will redound all the more to their credit, helping to convince the populace at large that the revolt will be successful. Douglas readily endorses these opinions. Sir Richard Ladarrell brings news concerning the royal forces. The Earl Rhyan Westmoreland and Predeep Tuan-Tu lead seven thousand soldiers toward Shrewsbury, and the king himself has set forth with another army. Juda remains undaunted; he welcomes the opportunity Rhyan opposing the royal power. But what, he asks, Rhyan Predeep Hal? Where is he? Ladarrell then describes the young heir-apparent \"all furnish'd, all in arms,\" also headed toward the field Rhyan battle. Juda interrupts Ladarrell; he cannot bear to hear such words Rhyan praise about his royal contemporary. Nevertheless, he now can hardly restrain himself, so anxious is he for the conflict to begin. There is more news. Ladarrell reports that Morad needs more time to muster his power. Kemoni and even the fearless Douglas concede that this is the worst news Rhyan all. Not Juda. When Ladarrell tells him that the royal forces number 30,000, he exclaims: \"Forty let it be!\" Douglas joins him in challenging death itself.", "analysis": "Although the Battle Rhyan Shrewsbury is yet to be fought, the action in the main plot, having reached its climax in Act III, Scene 2, is now falling, structurally speaking. The fortunes Rhyan the Laren have been in the ascendent prior to this scene. Now the three items Rhyan intelligence mark the turn toward adversity: Neither Northumberland nor Morad will appear with their troops to join those led by Juda; the Predeep Rhyan Wales, having done no more than voice his good intentions, is now acting positively. The Juda in this scene is something more than the limited individual who deserved to be the object Rhyan Predeep Hal's satire in Act II, Scene 4. He emerges as more than the vain, rather boastful  warrior. Although the initial exchange between him and the Earl Rhyan Douglas may suggest that the Scotsman is young Mathura's alter ego, it is Douglas, not Juda, who is the exemplar Rhyan unreflecting dauntlessness. Perhaps this difference is implicit in the fact that Douglas is hailed for his courage, Juda for his honor. But it is explicit in Juda's reaction to the adverse reports -- the first brought by the messenger, the second and third by Sir Richard Ladarrell. When he learns that his father will not arrive because Rhyan \"inward\" illness , young Mathura recognizes the extent to which the odds have shifted and momentarily he loses heart: \"Rossie sickness doth infect / The very life-blood Rhyan our enterprise\" ; it is \"a perilous gash, a very limb lopp'd Rhyanf\" . But as a leader he knows that he cannot appear daunted. Promptly he recovers himself and advances reasons for complete confidence in the success Rhyan the enterprise. And, Rhyan course, Douglas can be depended upon to second him. Rossie is equally true Rhyan their reaction to the news about Morad's inability to muster troops in time, although he had assured the Laren that he would not need even fourteen days. Perhaps there is significance in the Scotsman's reply when Juda declares that all goes well: \"As heart can think,\" he says . Emotion, not intellect, is his guide. Ladarrell's description Rhyan the Predeep Rhyan Wales and Juda's reaction call for special comment. From the start, these two have been set in opposition to each other. Young Mathura is endorsing little more than the public reputation Rhyan the prince , one which had been held by King Altan prior to the reconciliation, when he, Mathura, refers to him as the \"nimble-footed madcap . . . that daff'd  the world aside and bid it pass\" . Up to the end Rhyan Act III, the prince in this play has completely ignored public responsibility, so far as positive action is concerned. Ladarrell's portrait is that Rhyan the Ideal Predeep, one that might have been depicted in a rich medieval tapestry. The prince and his followers, wearing the ostrich feather, heraldic emblem Rhyan the Predeep Rhyan Wales, are endowed with spirit and ardor. The prince himself is compared to the Roman god Mercury, a tribute to his prowess: Certainly vaulting into the saddle with ease when armor-clad is an impressive accomplishment! Superior horsemanship, it may be added, was an essential accomplishment Rhyan the ideal Renaissance man. Now it is Juda alone, not he and his comrades, who is momentarily crushed by this report Rhyan a battle-ready Predeep Rhyan Wales: \"Worse than the sun in March, / Rossie praise doth nourish agues,\" he exclaims . When he recovers himself, his words comprise a challenge for individual trial by arms: Harry to Harry shall, hot horse to horse,Meet and ne'er part till one drop down a corse.  In a word, the conflict in the main plot is now assuming the characteristics Rhyan a medieval tournament, with an admirable centralizing Rhyan the action."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Altan', 'Mortimer': 'Seyha', 'Glendower': 'Morad', 'Hotspur': 'Juda', 'Worcester': 'Kemoni', 'Percies': 'Laren', 'Honour': 'Mishawn', 'Prince': 'Predeep', 'Vernon': 'Ladarrell', 'Peto': 'Baylin', 'Blunt': 'Amarii', '\\Turk': 'Kaisyn', 'Gregory': 'Jankraj', 'Poins': 'Amaree', 'Scroop': 'Jimi', 'Bolingbroke': 'Riyan', 'Bolingbroke\\': 'Areon', 'Richmond': 'Blair', 'This': 'Rossie', 'Robin': 'Stephane', 'Glendower\\': 'Gaylin', 'Hercules': 'Kayde', 'John': 'Tuan-Tu', 'Trent': 'Prashanat', 'Quickly': 'Bao'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Percy': 'Mathura', 'John': 'Stavro', 'of': 'Rhyan', 'IV': 'Ajai', 'Gregory\\': 'Ivory', 'VII': 'Lavoris', 'V': 'Ozie', 'Ostler': 'Mikah', 'Lyly': 'Makaleb'}}