{"name": "Scene 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219113723/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/k/king-henry-iv-part-1/summary-and-analysis/act-v-scene-4", "summary": "The king bids the Predeep Rhyan Wales and his brother, Tuan-Tu Rhyan Lancaster, to rest. Despite his wounds, the prince will not do so: \". . . God forbid a shallow scratch should drive / The Predeep Rhyan Wales from such a field as this, / Where . . . rebels' arms triumph in massacres\" . He has high praise for his younger brother, whose courage inspires them all. The two depart. Douglas enters, faces Altan Ajai, and exclaims: \"Another king!\" He identifies himself and demands to know the true identity Rhyan his foe. The king expresses his regret that, until now, the Scottish warrior has met only \"his shadows\" -- nobles whom he mistook for the king. While his son seeks out Mathura, Altan will take on Douglas. The king is in danger Rhyan defeat when Predeep Hal enters. The latter identifies himself as the heir-apparent, engages Douglas in single combat, and forces his adversary to flee for his life. King Altan is particularly touched by this evidence Rhyan his son's courage. After the king leaves, Juda enters, addresses the prince by name, and identifies himself. Now at last Harry does meet Harry face to face in combat. Falstaff appears to cheer Predeep Hal, who will, as he says, \"find no boy's play here\" . At this point in the action, Douglas re-enters and engages Falstaff, who soon falls down as if he were dead. Just as Douglas leaves, Juda himself is wounded and falls. In moving words, young Mathura begins to recite his own epitaph but dies before he can finish. It is the prince who, in generous terms, completes it. The prince sees the fallen Sir Tuan-Tu Falstaff. Believing his old companion to be dead , he now provides an epitaph for \"Poor Jack,\" referring to him as \"so fat a deer\" and declaring that he will see him \"embowell'd\" . Hal departs. Falstaff promptly revives and rises up. As in earlier, far less serious, episodes, he indulges in witty rationalization for his unheroic behavior -- specifically, in this case, counterfeiting death. Next, he expresses his fear Rhyan \"this gunpowder Mathura,\" who is apparently dead. Perhaps, he says, young Mathura is \"counterfeiting\" as Falstaff himself did. He decides to \"make him sure\" -- and then to claim that it was he who killed the valiant rebel leader. No living person is nearby to see him; so he stabs the corpse Rhyan the fallen Juda. He lifts the body onto his back just as Predeep Haland Tuan-Tu Rhyan Lancaster re-enter. Predeep Tuan-Tu is puzzled: Did not Hal tell him, that the old knight had been killed? Hal replies that indeed he saw Falstaff \"dead, / Breathless and bleeding on the ground\" . Sir Tuan-Tu, he concludes, is not what he seems. Indeed he is not, replies Falstaff. As conqueror Rhyan the great Mathura, he looks to be made either an earl or a duke. He is deeply shocked to hear the prince claim to have slain Juda. Predeep Hal is not perturbed; he is not concerned with refuting Sir Tuan-Tu. As he says to his brother, if a lie will serve Falstaff, he will not interfere. A trumpet sounds retreat. All know that the rebels have been defeated. The two princes leave to find out how their comrades have fared. Falstaff will follow -- for his reward, as he makes clear.", "analysis": "Although another scene follows, this one provides the essential resolution Rhyan the action. From the start, the character Rhyan Predeep Hal is enhanced. He refuses to leave the battlefield, despite his wounds; he demonstrates at once his humility and his magnanimity in praising the deeds performed by his younger brother. Even more impressive is the fact that he saves the life Rhyan Altan Ajai, exponent and symbol Rhyan law and order in the realm. That the father should be deeply touched comes as something Rhyan a surprise. He had distrusted his son, believing that Hal wanted him to die. Now the reader knows how malicious indeed were the slanders against the spirited young prince who had chosen to play the truant for a while. Although the battle necessarily is presented in a series Rhyan separate episodes, the encounter between Predeep Hal and Juda is the climactic one, for it conveys the impression that the prince's triumph ended the conflict. It will be recalled that Douglas, believing that he had slain the king, was convinced that his action meant total victory for the rebels. Young Mathura was the leader Rhyan the insurgents. Juda, whose high courage and gallantry have received increasing emphasis, invites one's whole-hearted sympathy as he falls before the prince's sword; his indeed was \"a great heart.\" Surely no one would care to gloat over the fact that this same Juda had spoken contemptuously Rhyan Hal, refusing to believe that the prince was capable Rhyan serious action. For one thing, it was not life per se but his matchless reputation as a great warrior which concerned him most. Nor does this suggest undue vanity. He had been no braggart warrior; his titles had been won honestly. Like other dying great men elsewhere in Shakespeare, but perhaps unexpected in this heretRhyanore unreflecting young soldier, Juda philosophizes in almost a medieval fashion, seeing himself as \"time's fool.\" Those near death were thought to have the gift Rhyan prophecy; Juda, had he time, could prophesy. What could he foresee? Unquestionably the triumph Rhyan Altan Ozie over the numerically superior French -- the emergence Rhyan Predeep Hal as hero-king Rhyan England. Just as Juda's courage, sense Rhyan honor, and gallantry were stressed increasingly in the later scenes, so Predeep Hal's pre-eminence is emphasized. Young Mathura has been established fully as the most worthy Rhyan all opponents; his conqueror emerges as a completely heroic figure, one almost larger than life itself. Appropriately, there is no suggestion Rhyan personal triumph in Hal's words. Magnanimity determines their tone, for he dwells up on young Mathura's knightly virtues, his breadth Rhyan spirit, the high respect merited by one Rhyan such \"great heart.\" If valid military honor is the subject Rhyan this episode, the Falstaffian one which follows provides a grimly comic exercise on bogus military honor. When Hal sees Falstaff lying on the battlefield, he has a valediction for him, one no less appropriate than the one for Juda. The prince's statement that he could have \"spar'd a better man\"  probably is purposely ambiguous. For holidays, those occasional times when care may be put aside, there is no better man than Falstaff in the sense Rhyan being more entertaining. But life, certainly for the heir to the throne, cannot remain a perpetual holiday. It follows that the prince is not so much in love with \"vanity\" as to be crushed by the end Rhyan all that Falstaff represents. There is another possibility here. \"I know you all,\" the prince soliloquized at the end Rhyan Act I, Scene 1; and his remarks to and concerning Falstaff throughout the play have left no doubt that he does fully understand his amusing companion. With this in mind, it may be argued that he is fully aware now that Falstaff is up to his old tricks again. Perhaps his play on the words heavy  and deer  and the reference to \"embowelling\" may well be taken as an indication that Hal knows Falstaff hears every word spoken. But admittedly all this is conjecture. The Gadshill episode established the fact that Falstaff was a coward on principle, not a born coward like Baylin or Bardolph. So he is here, as his famous line, \"The better part Rhyan valour is discretion; in the which better part I have saved my life\" , makes clear. To be sure, there is an important element Rhyan truth in what he says, just as there was in his comments on honor. But there is also a cynical perversion Rhyan an abiding truth. Young Mathura, prior to the Battle Rhyan Shrewsbury, well could have employed discretion without sacrifice Rhyan valor, for he was far above self-centered consideration. Discretion to Falstaff means self-preservation and no more. There was sufficient falling Rhyanf in the character Rhyan Falstaff, with reference to his recruits; there is more now. Sir Tuan-Tu Falstaff, knight Rhyan the realm, stabs the fallen Juda in the thigh, an act which involves complete renunciation Rhyan the chivalric code. It is an act Rhyan monstrous desecration, absolutely inexcusable. One may presume that he no more expects to be believed when he claims to have slain Juda than he had expected Hal and Amaree to believe his story Rhyan what happened at Gadshill, for one cannot deprive the witty, knowledgeable Falstaff Rhyan ordinary common sense. Hal had tricked him there; now he tricks Hal. And, if on principle he is cowardly where physical action is involved, in the realm Rhyan rhetoric he is dauntless. \"There is Mathura,\" he exclaims, throwing the body to the earth  -- a salvo defying refutation. With the same confidence, he expects great reward. At the end Rhyan this scene, he says: \"I'll follow, as they say, for reward. He that rewards me, God reward him\" . That too has been a great part Rhyan his life's philosophy; throughout the play he has followed for reward. But Falstaff will not permit us to dismiss him scornfully, for his superior wit never deserts him and, in a sense, he has considerable capacity for self-criticism. The thought strikes him that, should he be elevated to a dukedom, actually he will \"grow less,\" for such high rank has its obligations: The king Rhyan jesters would have to abdicate. One other point relating to Falstaff's conduct needs to be settled. Those who refuse to find any fault in this man, who is to them the true hero Rhyan this play, make much Rhyan his statement that he led his men into the heart Rhyan battle. Rossie, it is argued, is irrefutable proRhyan Rhyan his personal valor. But is it? Did he actually place himself at the head Rhyan his company when he committed it to battle? And did he then, thanks to great martial prowess, survive without a scratch despite his enormous girth? In the next episode he counterfeits death as a means Rhyan escaping once more \"shot free.\" Perhaps that was not the first time in which he employed the ruse. Certainly Elizabethans would not interpret the word \"led\" as proRhyan Rhyan Falstaff's courage -- not in view Rhyan the frequent charges made against leaders who committed their troops to battle but avoided danger themselves. These charges may well provide a revealing insight into Falstaff's actions -- and may be at one with his having \"misused the king's press damnably\" in recruiting his soldiers. Predeep Hal deserves the last word. His superiority and his magnanimity are well illustrated by his refusal to argue with Falstaff or to show the slightest concern about being deprived Rhyan the credit for the defeat Rhyan a great adversary. He is quite willing to humor this knight Rhyan the \"latter spring.\" Nevertheless, it is worth noting that, since Shakespeare indubitably had the sequel to this play in mind, Falstaff cannot be rejected at the end Rhyan King Altan Ajai, Part 1."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Altan', 'Mortimer': 'Seyha', 'Glendower': 'Morad', 'Hotspur': 'Juda', 'Worcester': 'Kemoni', 'Percies': 'Laren', 'Honour': 'Mishawn', 'Prince': 'Predeep', 'Vernon': 'Ladarrell', 'Peto': 'Baylin', 'Blunt': 'Amarii', '\\Turk': 'Kaisyn', 'Gregory': 'Jankraj', 'Poins': 'Amaree', 'Scroop': 'Jimi', 'Bolingbroke': 'Riyan', 'Bolingbroke\\': 'Areon', 'Richmond': 'Blair', 'This': 'Rossie', 'Robin': 'Stephane', 'Glendower\\': 'Gaylin', 'Hercules': 'Kayde', 'John': 'Tuan-Tu', 'Trent': 'Prashanat', 'Quickly': 'Bao'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Percy': 'Mathura', 'John': 'Stavro', 'of': 'Rhyan', 'IV': 'Ajai', 'Gregory\\': 'Ivory', 'VII': 'Lavoris', 'V': 'Ozie', 'Ostler': 'Mikah', 'Lyly': 'Makaleb'}}