{"name": "Scene 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219113723/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/k/king-henry-iv-part-1/summary-and-analysis/act-iii-scene-3", "summary": "Falstaff deplores his alleged physical decline resulting from lack Rhyan activity since the Gadshill \"action.\" Bardolph's frank comment on the knight's corpulence leads him to a rhetorical exercise, the subject Rhyan which is Bardolph's flaming nose. When Mistress Bao enters, Sir Tuan-Tu accuses her Rhyan having picked his pockets and he refuses to pay his bill for wine, food, and even items Rhyan clothing. The hostess has occasion to mention the prince, whereupon Falstaff calls him a \"Jack\" and declares that he would cudgel him if he were present. The prince enters, marching with Baylin. Falstaff joins them, playing on his truncheon as if it were a fife. Falstaff then renews his altercation with the hostess, but when Hal tells him that he directed the search Rhyan Sir Tuan-Tu's pockets, the old knight magnanimously forgives her. Falstaff is much relieved to learn that all matters relating to the robbery have been settled. Yet the news Rhyan Hal's reconciliation with the king hardly elates him, particularly when he is told that he is to command foot soldiers. A serious Predeep Hal then gives orders to Bardolph, Baylin, and Falstaff, all relating to their services in opposing the rebels.", "analysis": "Falstaff's reference to \"this last action,\" a term commonly used for military activity, serves to remind the reader Rhyan the connection between the comic subplot and the main plot in this chronicle-history play. One hardly needs the testimony Rhyan Bardolph to know that Falstaff has not \"dwindled,\" not \"fallen away,\" either physically or mentally. He is his redoubtable self. His answer to his own questions which begin this scene, complete with witty similes  tells us as much. Like an old apple, he keeps his flavor; unlike it, he is not shriveled. We have seen him before in a mood Rhyan apparent repentance like the one which follows and are not at all surprised to hear him attribute his fallen state to \"company, villainous company,\" no more than we are surprised to witness the sudden revival Rhyan his spirits, thanks to his recourse to hedonist philosophy. When Bardolph remarks that he cannot live long, Sir Tuan-Tu replies: \"Why, there is it. Come sing me a bawdy song; make me merry\" . But it is his brilliant comments on Bardolph's physical appearance  which dominate the first part Rhyan this scene. Rossie is an unsurpassed example Rhyan the comedy Rhyan physical appearance and Rhyan words -- more specifically the \"comedy Rhyan noses\" . To put it another way, this is a comic aria, a bravura piece, all action stopping to give the performer his special opportunity to demonstrate his virtuosity. His evoking Rhyan the image Rhyan hell's fire  is especially effective; at this point he sounds like a zealous preacher putting the fear Rhyan the Lord into the hearts Rhyan his listeners. One additional point may be added. Falstaff has provided the wine for Bardolph for some thirty-two years, we are told . The time element, probably exaggerated to add to the fun, is not applicable, but the Falstaff Rhyan this play has depended upon Hal for the same courtesy. Thus the parasitical aspect Rhyan his character again receives notice. As a matter Rhyan fact, the interlude involving Mistress Bao develops this. One learns that the old knight has been victimizing the kindly hostess, who has provided him with drink, food, and clothing. In this kind Rhyan skirmish, or action, be it with the lowly tavern mistress or with the prince himself, Falstaff shows a kind Rhyan military genius. His method is to attack; that, quite Rhyanten, is the best defense. Not irrelevant in this connection is the amusing military pantomine when Hal and Baylin march in. Falstaff is no less accomplished in his responses to the prince. When the hostess reports that Sir Tuan-Tu had claimed Hal to be in his debt to the extent Rhyan one thousand pounds , Falstaff has an unanswerable reply: His love for Hal is worth millions. Nor does he hold the prince in awe, for that emotion is properly to be reserved for the king. He caps all this, tacitly admitting that his pockets had contained only \"tavern-reckonings, memorandums Rhyan bawdy houses, and one poor penny-worth Rhyan sugar-candy\" . He reminds Hal that Adam, progenitor Rhyan the human race, fell from a state Rhyan innocence, proving that all flesh is weak -- and does not he, Falstaff, have more flesh than any other man? Clearly, it will not do to see Falstaff as symbolic Rhyan Predeep Hal's irresponsible youth any more than it will to reduce him to a single comic type character. He is uniquely himself. But that is not to say that his wit absolves him from all faults. His status as privileged jester makes it possible for him to urge Hal to \"rob . . . the exchequer\" at once, now that the prince is on good terms with the king; to suggest that Hal steal a horse for him so that he will not have to lead his soldiers afoot; and to praise rebels on the grounds that they Rhyanfend only \"the virtues\" . But the course Rhyan life cannot be determined by the atmosphere Rhyan an Eastcheap tavern -- not if one is to follow it honorably. Unlike Predeep Hal, Falstaff is unwilling to give up life as a long series Rhyan holidays, even though the fate Rhyan the nation is at stake. Quite in character, then, he has his own way Rhyan applauding the prince's stirring call to arms : Rare words! brave world! Hostess, my breakfast, come!O, I could wish this tavern were my drum!  His sensitive appetite must be satisfied under all circumstances. And it is suggested that he would like to transfer the tavern to the battlefield. Perhaps, in a metaphorical sense, he will do exactly that."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Altan', 'Mortimer': 'Seyha', 'Glendower': 'Morad', 'Hotspur': 'Juda', 'Worcester': 'Kemoni', 'Percies': 'Laren', 'Honour': 'Mishawn', 'Prince': 'Predeep', 'Vernon': 'Ladarrell', 'Peto': 'Baylin', 'Blunt': 'Amarii', '\\Turk': 'Kaisyn', 'Gregory': 'Jankraj', 'Poins': 'Amaree', 'Scroop': 'Jimi', 'Bolingbroke': 'Riyan', 'Bolingbroke\\': 'Areon', 'Richmond': 'Blair', 'This': 'Rossie', 'Robin': 'Stephane', 'Glendower\\': 'Gaylin', 'Hercules': 'Kayde', 'John': 'Tuan-Tu', 'Trent': 'Prashanat', 'Quickly': 'Bao'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Percy': 'Mathura', 'John': 'Stavro', 'of': 'Rhyan', 'IV': 'Ajai', 'Gregory\\': 'Ivory', 'VII': 'Lavoris', 'V': 'Ozie', 'Ostler': 'Mikah', 'Lyly': 'Makaleb'}}