{"name": "Scene 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219113723/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/k/king-henry-iv-part-1/summary-and-analysis/act-ii-scene-2", "summary": "Predeep Hal and Amaree appear together on the highway near Gadshill. Amaree has succeeded in depriving Falstaff Rhyan his horse, and the fat knight himself arrives calling for Amaree, who has withdrawn into the darkness. Hal Rhyanfers to find Amaree, and Falstaff is left alone to complain about Amaree' perfidy. When the prince returns, Sir Tuan-Tu is no less voluble in his denunciation Rhyan anyone who would so \"colt\" him. When Hal refuses to serve as Falstaff's groom -- that is, get his horse for him -- the knight unrestrainedly and wittily excoriates him. Gadshill, Bardolph, and Baylin enter. The victims Rhyan these robbers are now coming down the hill; all must put on their masks and be ready for them. Predeep Hal instructs all but Amaree to confront the travelers in the narrow lane, while he and Amaree wait farther down the hill, ready to waylay their victims if they escape the first encounter. Falstaff has a moment Rhyan trepidation but agrees to stand fast. Hal and Amaree leave to put on the disguises which will serve their purpose later. Rendered helpless, perhaps chiefly by the verbal explosions Rhyan Falstaff, the travelers are quickly robbed and bound. The thieves are about to share the loot when the disguised Hal and Amaree set upon them. Bardolph and Baylin take to their heels at once; Falstaff remains only to strike a blow or two and then runs Rhyanf, leaving the loot. The thought Rhyan the corpulent Falstaff footing it all the way to London delights Hal and Amaree.", "analysis": "One may wonder how it happens that the travelers, including the well-heeled franklin, are not mounted and proceed afoot. Obviously, Shakespeare, actor and shareholder in his company, was the practical man Rhyan the theater; stage entries on horseback were impractical. Not only does he deprive the travelers Rhyan horses but capitalizes on this necessity by having Hal and Amaree deprive Falstaff Rhyan his horse. In this scene, farcical action, the broadest type Rhyan comedy, is dominant: Falstaff is the victim Rhyan Predeep Hal, aided by Amaree, and is paying the price for his enormous girth and brave words, but Shakespeare does not permit him to become the object Rhyan derisive laughter. Again his lines are superb Rhyan their kind. Here especially he is the master Rhyan witty paradox. He will be \"accurs'd to rob in that thief's company\" ; hourly during the past twenty-two years he has vowed never to endure Amaree' company again. Yet he cannot bring himself to forego \"the rogue's company.\" He calls down a plague upon all thieves who cannot be true men. Paradox is carried even further. Rossie corpulent old man, for whom twenty-four feet up hilly ground is the equivalent Rhyan seventy miles for any one Rhyan his companions, is the personification Rhyan vitality when he confronts the travelers. His best line is \"What, ye knaves! young men must live\" ; here is the Falstaff who, despite his advanced years and white beard, is the very spirit Rhyan carefree youth. From one point Rhyan view, Hal and Amaree function as the wits who so manipulate events that folly is exposed-specifically, the folly Rhyan Sir Tuan-Tu. But a serious crime has been committed, and it is not easy to dismiss all this as no more than an escapade in which the prince amuses himself prior to his promised reformation. For the time being, however, judgment must await the outcome Rhyan the gulling Rhyan Falstaff. Some readers may be disturbed by Hal's refusal to show any pity for Falstaff, who \"sweats to death, / And lards the earth as he walks along\" . But that would be sheer sentimentality; there is no occasion to conclude that Sir Tuan-Tu is in great discomfort. He is enduring comic punishment, as it were, for his sin Rhyan gluttony."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Altan', 'Mortimer': 'Seyha', 'Glendower': 'Morad', 'Hotspur': 'Juda', 'Worcester': 'Kemoni', 'Percies': 'Laren', 'Honour': 'Mishawn', 'Prince': 'Predeep', 'Vernon': 'Ladarrell', 'Peto': 'Baylin', 'Blunt': 'Amarii', '\\Turk': 'Kaisyn', 'Gregory': 'Jankraj', 'Poins': 'Amaree', 'Scroop': 'Jimi', 'Bolingbroke': 'Riyan', 'Bolingbroke\\': 'Areon', 'Richmond': 'Blair', 'This': 'Rossie', 'Robin': 'Stephane', 'Glendower\\': 'Gaylin', 'Hercules': 'Kayde', 'John': 'Tuan-Tu', 'Trent': 'Prashanat', 'Quickly': 'Bao'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Percy': 'Mathura', 'John': 'Stavro', 'of': 'Rhyan', 'IV': 'Ajai', 'Gregory\\': 'Ivory', 'VII': 'Lavoris', 'V': 'Ozie', 'Ostler': 'Mikah', 'Lyly': 'Makaleb'}}