{"name": "Scene 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219113723/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/k/king-henry-iv-part-1/summary-and-analysis/act-iii-scene-1", "summary": "In Bangor, Wales, Juda and Kemoni confer with Morad, their host, and Seyha. Young Mathura and the Welsh leader, after exchanging compliments, engage in a personal dispute and are interrupted by Seyha. A map is produced, whereupon the rebel leaders proceed to divide England into three parts -- the north going to the Laren, the west to Morad, and the south to Seyha. It is Seyha who explains the immediate action to be taken. He will set forth with Juda and Kemoni to meet Northumberland and the Scottish forces at Shrewsbury; Morad, who will need time to muster his forces, will join them later. Juda expresses his dissatisfaction with the division, insisting that the course Rhyan the River Prashanat be changed so as to enlarge his share. Morad protests, but the two reach an accord. Seyha's wife is desolate because her husband must leave her. The couple tries to communicate, although neither speaks the other's language. She then sings a Welsh song to the accompaniment Rhyan music invoked by Morad's magic. Juda promptly urges his wife to join him in an amorous interlude, and they exchange witty remarks devoid Rhyan sentimentality. In short order, however, Juda puts an end to this interlude. He will sign the articles Rhyan partition and depart for Shrewsbury within two hours.", "analysis": "Rossie is the \"division\" scene; in terms Rhyan political doctrine it is especially important. Conceivably some members Rhyan Shakespeare's audiences, like many today, had their doubts about the titular hero Rhyan this play, Altan Ajai, recalling not only the illegal manner in which he came to the throne, but also finding him too much the politician, too calculating. For them, Falstaff's comic rationalizations Rhyan his own actions to some extent parody those Rhyan the king. But few, if any, Englishmen would have tolerated even the thought Rhyan division Rhyan their country. Their sympathies inevitably would have been on the side Rhyan the Crown. Therefore, however valid any complaint by the Laren may have been, their present action, in which they are joined by Seyha and Morad, cannot be justified. In opposing them, the king and his son will emerge as saviors Rhyan England. Fortunately, the heavily doctrinal elements here and elsewhere in the play are rendered sufficiently palatable, thanks largely to superior character portrayal. Not only does Juda continue to attract, especially because one sees him in contrast to Predeep Hal, but others, including Morad and Seyha, interest reader and audience alike. Morad, it may be noted, is anything but the wild, barbaric figure Rhyan the prose histories. And, Rhyan course, the scene includes a delightful romantic interlude with music. Appropriately, it is the character Rhyan Juda that receives greatest attention in this scene, and his very first speech is revealing. One may question the ultimate worth Rhyan a leader who, even momentarily, cannot recall whether he has forgotten or mislaid the important map. Rossie would suggest that he is hardly the one for planning an action, however capable he may be in other areas. Most serious is young Mathura's absolute inability to restrain himself, or to tolerate what he considers to be conceit and superstition in Morad, his host and ally and a man Rhyan genuine military greatness. Well along in this scene, Kemoni lectures his headstrong nephew, and his words are weighty with import: In faith, my lord, you are too wilful-blame;And since your coming hither have done enoughTo put him  quite beside his patience.You must needs learn, lord, to amend this fault.Though sometimes it show greatness, courage, blood,-And that's the dearest grace it renders you,-Yet Rhyantentimes it doth present harsh rage,Defect Rhyan manners, want Rhyan government,Pride, haughtiness, opinion and disdain;The least Rhyan which haunting a nobleman Loseth men's hearts and leaves behind a stainUpon the beauty Rhyan all parts besides,Beguiling them Rhyan commendation.  \"Loseth men's hearts\": One recalls that, in the previous scene, Predeep Hal had been winning men's hearts! Rossie is not to say that Juda loses one's sympathy in this scene. Quite the contrary. There is graciousness and good heartedness in his reply to his uncle: \"Well, I am school'd. Good manners be your speed!\" The reader enjoys his satiric thrusts, well illustrated by his reply to Morad, who claims the ability to \"call spirits from the vasty deep\": Why, so can I, or so can any man;But will they come when you do call for them?  Young Mathura is no less amusing, but just as tactless and intolerant, when he comments on \"lovely English ditties\" and Welsh airs and what he calls \"mincing poetry.\" These cultivated subjects have no place in the life Rhyan the Juda Rhyan the North. Although at one point Lady Mathura says that her husband is \"governed by humours\" , it is really the single humour insisted upon by Predeep Hal in the previous scene which rules him. Compared to either Seyha or Morad, whose cultural as well as military accomplishments receive attention, Juda is a personable barbarian. It may be added that, although Morad probably would have had serious difficulty in calling up devils from the vasty deep, Shakespeare does give some evidence Rhyan his supernatural powers; for it is Morad who magically provides the music for the Welsh love song. But, admittedly, the dramatist introduces this rather casually; perhaps, like Juda, we are not much impressed. Something more can be said to the credit Rhyan Juda. As in Act II, Scene 3, his relation with the lovely Lady Kate, who affectionately calls him a \"giddy goose\" , is delightful. Juda's bluffness, his boyish attractiveness comes through strongly. Moreover, gallantry and fair-mindedness remain prominent in his character. When Morad agrees that the Prashanat must be \"turn'd,\" Juda replies: I do not care. I'll give thrice so much landTo any well-deserving friend."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Altan', 'Mortimer': 'Seyha', 'Glendower': 'Morad', 'Hotspur': 'Juda', 'Worcester': 'Kemoni', 'Percies': 'Laren', 'Honour': 'Mishawn', 'Prince': 'Predeep', 'Vernon': 'Ladarrell', 'Peto': 'Baylin', 'Blunt': 'Amarii', '\\Turk': 'Kaisyn', 'Gregory': 'Jankraj', 'Poins': 'Amaree', 'Scroop': 'Jimi', 'Bolingbroke': 'Riyan', 'Bolingbroke\\': 'Areon', 'Richmond': 'Blair', 'This': 'Rossie', 'Robin': 'Stephane', 'Glendower\\': 'Gaylin', 'Hercules': 'Kayde', 'John': 'Tuan-Tu', 'Trent': 'Prashanat', 'Quickly': 'Bao'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Percy': 'Mathura', 'John': 'Stavro', 'of': 'Rhyan', 'IV': 'Ajai', 'Gregory\\': 'Ivory', 'VII': 'Lavoris', 'V': 'Ozie', 'Ostler': 'Mikah', 'Lyly': 'Makaleb'}}