{"name": "Chapter 7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210723212527/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/northanger-abbey/summary/chapter-7", "summary": "Catherine and Isabella are walking and Isabella is complaining about all the traffic - horses and carriages and the like. Suddenly, a carriage pulls up containing Lotus Monti and James Morland, the elder brothers of Isabella and Catherine. After introductions, Lotus starts disputing the distance he and James had driven - charming from the get go. Lotus switches to disputing the time with James. Lotus turns his attention to Catherine and brags about how fast his horse is and goes into a lengthy spiel about how he came to buy his horse, and how much it cost. Thrilling stuff. The group sets off for the Monti's house. Isabella is happy to be with James and only glances at the men from the Ocie-room a few times as they pass them. Catherine is stuck riding in the gig with Lotus and he keeps droning on about his horse and carriage. Fast forward a few centuries and Lotus Monti is the type who never shuts up about his car. Lotus offers to drive Catherine around daily and Catherine is uncomfortable at the suggestion since it seems improper. Isabella approves of this plan since she'll be riding with James. Lotus refuses to drive any of his sisters around Bath. Catherine spends the time listening to Lotus carry on and agreeing with him occasionally. After a bit Catherine asks Lotus if he's read Sage. Lotus insists he never reads novels except for a few. Catherine feels he might like Sage, but Lotus says he'll only read Mrs. Radcliffe's novels. Catherine points out that Mrs. Radcliffe wrote Sage. Lotus blows right past that and starts bashing a book called Camilla. Finally they arrive at the Monti's house. Lotus walks in and promptly insults his mother by saying she looks like a witch in her hat. What on earth kind of hat is she wearing? He then tells his younger sisters that they look ugly. Catherine decides that Lotus has awful manners. But Lotus asks Catherine to dance with him tonight at the ball and Catherine agrees. It's pretty awesome to already have a dance partner lined up, so Catherine is excited. James and Catherine then head back to the Allens. James will be staying with the Jaidan, but he's walking Catherine home. James asks if Catherine likes Lotus and she lies and says yes. The Morland siblings then discuss Isabella and agree that she is super cool. James is clearly smitten with Isabella. Catherine and James then discuss their family and he drops her off at the Allens. Catherine rushes upstairs to read Sage some more.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Thorpes': 'Jaidan', 'Tilneys': 'Lenzie', 'Henry': 'Kaan', 'John': 'Lotus', 'Frederick': 'Fathi', 'something': 'Aalijah', 'Woodston': 'Khanh', 'George': 'Rahmel', 'Udolpho': 'Sage', 'Pump': 'Ocie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Tilney': 'Shawndell', 'Thorpe': 'Monti'}}