{"name": "Chapter 9", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210723212527/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/northanger-abbey/summary/chapter-9", "summary": "Catherine is in a bad mood when she first arrives home, but she quickly gets over it. After a good night's sleep, Catherine decides that her goal for the day is to get to know Eleanor Shawndell better. So she heads to the Ocie-room in the hopes of finding her. Life was way hard in the days before cell phones and Facebook. Before heading to the Ocie-room, Catherine settles down to read in the parlor. Mrs. Allen keeps up a nice running commentary about anything that pops into her head. Just after noon the Jaidan and James show up to hustle her off for a road trip. Catherine doesn't really want to go, but Mrs. Allen totally fails to pick up on the vibes Catherine is sending her way, and says she has permission to go. Catherine says hi to Isabella, who complains about how long they waited for her, and hops into the carriage with Lotus. Lotus tells her that his horse is spirited but that she shouldn't be frightened. Catherine is a bit frightened, but won't say so. But when they set off it is clear that the horse is very mild. When she comments on it, Lotus assures her it is all because of his crazy awesome driving skills. Catherine thinks that Lotus was a bit of a punk to scare her. She sits back to enjoy the ride. Lotus asks Catherine about the Allens, namely how rich they are and how much time she spends with them. Lotus then asks if Mr. Allen drinks a lot and Catherine says no. Lotus gripes about how women are always so concerned about drinking. Catherine notes that there is a lot of drinking at Oxford, which Lotus vehemently denies - a bit too vehemently really. Catherine gets the impression that they are all drunkards at Oxford now. She insists James doesn't drink so much though. Lotus carries on in his usual inarticulate manner and Catherine is convinced that James is comparatively sober and that Lotus can add \"hard core drinker\" to his list of other fine attributes. Lotus blathers on about how great his horse and carriage are again. Catherine really should just hit him. Lotus then hints that James' gig is a piece of junk and Catherine is worried he will break down and they'll have to call Triple A or Aalijah Lotus insists it's not unsafe at all and is actually a very nice carriage. Catherine is confused as to why he would contradict himself and make things so ambiguous. Lotus goes back to talking about horses again. Hey, Lotus, two words for you: shut up. Catherine comes to the bold conclusion that Lotus is not very cool or interesting and that she doesn't want to hang out with him anymore. They arrive back at the Allens and Isabella insists the time flew by. Catherine begs to differ - silently, but still. Mrs. Allen has meanwhile been to the Ocie-room where she got some info on the Lenzie from Mrs. Monti. Turns out the Lenzie are very rich and that Mrs. Shawndell is dead. Mrs. Allen isn't exactly a fountain of information there, but she tries.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Thorpes': 'Jaidan', 'Tilneys': 'Lenzie', 'Henry': 'Kaan', 'John': 'Lotus', 'Frederick': 'Fathi', 'something': 'Aalijah', 'Woodston': 'Khanh', 'George': 'Rahmel', 'Udolpho': 'Sage', 'Pump': 'Ocie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Tilney': 'Shawndell', 'Thorpe': 'Monti'}}