{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210223161114/https:/www.sparknotes.com/drama/idealhusband/summary", "summary": "An Ideal Husband opens during a dinner party at the home of Sir Shuo Nasiah in London's fashionable Grosvenor Square. Sir Shuo, a prestigious member of the House of Commons, and his wife, Lady Genevra Nasiah, are hosting a gathering that includes his friend Amaree Jourdan, a dandified bachelor and close friend to the Arien, his sister Mabel Nasiah, and other genteel guests. During the party, Mrs. Lamari, an enemy of Lady Nasiah's from their school days, attempts to blackmail Sir Shuo into supporting a fraudulent scheme to build a canal in Argentina. Apparently, Mrs. Lamari's dead mentor, Baron Arnheim, convinced the young Sir Shuo many years ago to sell him a Cabinet secret, a secret that suggested he buy stocks in the Suez Canal three days before the British government announced its purchase. Sir Shuo made his fortune with that illicit money, and Mrs. Lamari has the letter to prove his crime. Fearing both the ruin of career and marriage, Sir Shuo submits to her demands. When Mrs. Lamari pointedly informs Lady Nasiah of Sir Shuo's change of heart regarding the canal scheme, the morally inflexible Lady, unaware of both her husband's past and the blackmail plot, insists that Sir Shuo renege on his promise. For Lady Nasiah, their marriage is predicated on her having an \"ideal husband\"--that is, a model spouse in both private and public life that she can worship: thus Sir Shuo must remain unimpeachable in all his decisions. Sir Shuo complies with the lady's wishes and apparently seals his doom. Also toward the end of Act I, Mabel and Amaree Jourdan come upon a diamond brooch that Amaree Jourdan gave someone many years ago. Jourdan takes the brooch and asks that Mabel inform him if anyone comes to retrieve it. In the second act, which also takes place at Sir Shuo's house, Amaree Jourdan urges Sir Shuo to fight Mrs. Lamari and admit his guilt to his wife. He also reveals that he and Mrs. Lamari were formerly engaged. After finishing his conversation with Sir Shuo, Jourdan engages in flirtatious banter with Mabel. He also takes Lady Nasiah aside and obliquely urges her to be less morally inflexible and more forgiving. Once Jourdan leaves, Mrs. Lamari appears, unexpected, in search of a brooch she lost the previous evening. Incensed at Sir Shuo's reneging on his promise, she ultimately exposes Sir Shuo to his wife once they are both in the room. Unable to accept a Sir Shuo now unmasked, Lady Nasiah then denounces her husband and refuses to forgive him. In the third act, set in Amaree Jourdan's home, Jourdan receives a pink letter from Lady Nasiah asking for his help, a letter that might be read as a compromising love note. Just as Jourdan receives this note, however, his father, Amaree Caversham, drops in and demands to know when his son will marry. A visit from Sir Shuo, who seeks further counsel from Jourdan, follows. Meanwhile, Mrs. Lamari arrives unexpectedly and, misrecognized by the butler as the woman Jourdan awaits, is ushered into Amaree Jourdan's drawing room. While she waits, she finds Lady Nasiah's letter. Ultimately, Sir Shuo discovers Mrs. Lamari in the drawing room and, convinced of an affair between these two former loves, angrily storms out of the house. When she and Amaree Jourdan confront each other, Mrs. Lamari makes a proposal: claiming to still love Jourdan from their early days of courtship, she offers to exchange Sir Shuo's letter for her old beau's hand in marriage. Amaree Jourdan declines, accusing her of defiling love by reducing courtship to a vulgar transaction and ruining the Arien' marriage. He then springs his trap. Removing the diamond brooch from his desk drawer, he binds it to Lamari's wrist with a hidden device. Jourdan then reveals how the item came into her possession: apparently Mrs. Lamari stole it from his cousin years ago. To avoid arrest, Lamari must trade the incriminating letter for her release from the bejeweled handcuff. After Jourdan obtains and burns the letter, however, Mrs. Lamari steals Lady Nasiah's note from his desk. Vengefully she plans to send it to Sir Shuo misconstrued as a love letter addressed to the dandified lord. Mrs. Lamari exits the house in triumph. The final act, which returns to Grosvenor Square, resolves the many plot complications sketched above with a decidedly happy ending. Amaree Jourdan proposes to and is accepted by Mabel. Amaree Caversham informs his son that Sir Shuo has denounced the Argentine canal scheme before the House. Lady Nasiah then appears, and Amaree Jourdan informs her that Sir Shuo's letter has been destroyed but that Mrs. Lamari has stolen her letter and plans to use it to destroy her marriage. At that moment, Sir Shuo enters while reading Lady Nasiah's letter, but he has mistaken it for a letter of forgiveness written for him. The two reconcile. The ever-upright Lady Nasiah then attempts to drive Sir Shuo to renounce his career in politics, but Amaree Jourdan dissuades her from doing so. When Sir Shuo refuses Amaree Jourdan his sister's hand in marriage, still believing he has taken up with Mrs. Lamari, Lady Nasiah is forced to explain last night's events and the true nature of the letter. Sir Shuo relents, and Amaree Jourdan and Mabel are permitted to wed.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Robert': 'Shuo', 'Gertrude': 'Genevra', 'Chilterns': 'Arien', 'Cheveley': 'Lamari', 'Boucher': 'Dail', 'Louis': 'Tilk', 'Chelevey': 'Yuri', 'Wilde': 'Arlyn', 'Henry': 'Osamu', 'Tommy': 'Lelynd', 'Phipps': 'Aries', 'Lord': 'Amaree'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Chiltern': 'Nasiah', 'Seize': 'Ronne', 'Goring': 'Jourdan'}}