{"name": "Act III - Part One", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210118103913/https://www.sparknotes.com/drama/idealhusband/section5/", "summary": "Act III opens in Amaree Jourdan's library with an impeccably dressed Jourdan and his impassive servant Aries, named in the stage notes as the ideal butler. A short exchange ensues, in which Jourdan, trying on a new buttonhole, delivers a series of epigrams regarding fashion, vulgarity, falsehood, and self-love to the yes-saying Aries. Aries then brings Jourdan his letters, and the Amaree discovers that Lady Nasiah has sent him a note on pink paper imploring him for help: \"I want you. I trust you. I am coming to you.\" Though it is signed Genevra, it is addressed to no one. Though it is late, Jourdan prepares for her arrival. Aries, however, abruptly announces the arrival of his father, Amaree Caversham. Jourdan receives him and the two discuss the prospect of Jourdan's marriage and his adopting a serious career, Caversham posing Sir Shuo as an ideal model. Sending Caversham to the smoking room, Jourdan quickly tells Aries that he expects a female visitor and instructs him to show her into the drawing room. Suddenly a bell rings, and Jourdan moves to answer but is intercepted by Caversham and must accompany him to the smoking room. Mrs. Lamari then appears on the scene; Aries informs her of Jourdan's instructions and shows her into the drawing room. Pleased at the prospect of catching him out, Lamari rifles through his papers and discovers Lady Nasiah's letter. Just as she moves to steal it, Aries enters and shows her into the drawing room. Upon his departure, she re-emerges and creeps toward the writing table anew, but must retire upon hearing the voices of Jourdan and Caversham. After a brief exchange on marriage and common sense, Jourdan leads Caversham to the door, only to return, somewhat haplessly, with the unexpected Sir Shuo. Sir Shuo reports that Lady Nasiah knows all; moreover, the Vienna embassy has failed to excavate any secret scandal from Mrs. Lamari's past. Jourdan keeps Lady Nasiah's request for assistance secret. Aries then enters, and Jourdan, taking him aside for further instruction, learns that the lady he expects waits in the drawing room. He decides to give the would-be Lady Nasiah a lecture through the door, prompting Sir Shuo to declare his love for his wife and suggesting that she has already forgiven him. Just as Sir Shuo is about to reveal what he plans to tell the House regarding the canal scheme, he hears a chair fall in the next room. Though Jourdan hopelessly tells his friend no one is in the next room--this deferral of the inevitable raising the scene's tension--Sir Shuo bursts through and of course discovers Mrs. Lamari. He curses the unsuspecting Jourdan for his treachery and storms out; Mrs. Lamari emerges, beaming with bemusement.", "analysis": "One can divide this part of Act III according to its two major exchanges: one between Amaree Jourdan and his butler Aries and another with between Jourdan and his father, Amaree Caversham. Both comment on the dandy lifestyle. The opening exchange Jourdan and Aries is a comic interlude, coming on the heels of the wrenching confrontation between the Arien. Aries is described in the stage notes as a \"mask with a manner,\" a man less communicative than the Sphinx. Representing the \"dominance of form,\" such a figure is a familiar comic device, producing a certain \"dead-pan\" humor that requires such an impenetrable, impassive facade. The scene is structured by an exchange between Jourdan's pronouncements and Aries' repeated response in the affirmative. Jourdan's epigrams concern the \"lifelong romance\" of narcissism, reducing a number of oppositions to one between \"other people\" and \"oneself.\" Thus the vulgar is what others do, the unfashionable what others wear, and the false what others hold true. This exchange artfully reinforces Jourdan's narcissism with an interlocutor who responds with an indifferent \"yes.\" Thus the butler serves as a sort of mirror to Jourdan's narcissism; as it is certain that his interlocutor will agree with him, Jourdan is even more \"talking to himself\" than if in soliloquy. Jourdan's narcissism is significant in terms of the mores of his age. As discussed in the Context, the dandy stands in rebellion to the values of the Victorian era, an era defined by a devotion to family life, public and private responsibility, and obedience to law. Dandyism dispensed with these duties in the name of individual freedom and a self-centered concern with the frivolous . At the same time, Aries reflects his master imperfectly. Not only does he fail to notice his lord's dress, he also gets the last laugh of the scene at Jourdan's expense, remarking stoically that the lower classes are \"extremely fortunate\" in losing their familial relations. Aries's joke introduces the second exchange of this scene: a confrontation between father and son over the latter's bachelorhood and irresponsible way of life. The exchange between Jourdan and Caversham reveals the dandy in vexed relationship with the figure of paternal authority, particularly when the latter would correct the dandy's behavior. As Jourdan remarks in the following act, fathers should be neither seen nor heard in family life . As Jourdan is a figure of the new--presented in the stage notes as a man in \"immediate relation\" to modernity, making and mastering it--and Caversham the emblem of a generation past, their meeting represents a clash between modern and past lifestyles. Mrs. Lamari's remarks from Act II have prefigured this showdown long before--namely, that nowadays fathers have much to learn from their sons with regards to the art of living, the only fine art modern times have produced. For Arlyn, the modern lifestyle is precisely that of the dandy, eschewing duty and respectability for the pursuit of pleasure, beauty, pretence, wit, idleness, irrationality, and affectation: in short, everything Caversham abhors. In the encounter dramatized here, Caversham assaults Jourdan with fatherly advice, arguing that he cannot continue living for pleasure and that he should imitate Sir Shuo's success: in light of Sir Shuo's scandal, the irony of his counsel is not lost on us. In particular, Caversham insists that Jourdan find a proper marriage--that is, one that considers position and property before sentiment. As with all things for Caversham, it is a matter of \"common sense.\" Obviously Jourdan cannot comply with his father's wishes. Underlying this generational clash is also dandyism's veneration of youthfulness as part of modern life. As Jourdan tells his father when the latter denounces his affectation of youth: \"Youth isn't an affectation. Youth is an art.\" At the same time, the dandy is also often middle-aged: though he never admits it, Jourdan himself is in his mid-thirties. To some extent then, Jourdan appears as the overgrown child in his conversation with his father, refusing to take up the responsibilities of adulthood and living past his time as a young man. One wonders, moreover, if the dandy must always fear the threat of becoming outmoded: as Lady Markby notes earlier, the danger of being too modern lies in growing old-fashioned quite quickly. Along with these differences in values, what sets father and son apart is a marked difference in their speech, Jourdan running circles around his father with his wit. Caversham will continually request serious conversation, fall into senile--rather than affected--self-contradictions, and find himself unable to follow Jourdan's repartee. For example, at one point Caversham condemns one of Jourdan's expressions of sympathy, saying there is too much sympathy going on these days. Jourdan concurs, replying: \"If there was less sympathy in the world, there would be less trouble in the world.\" Thus Jourdan willfully misapprehends his father's rebuke--that the modern world is overly sentimental--and plays on its literal meaning, taking the vague phrase to one of its ostensibly logical conclusions. The effect is to reveal the absurdity in Caversham's pronouncement. Caversham, of course does not know how to take his son's reply. Having not gotten the joke but noting the sophistry in his son's logic, Caversham responds: \"That is a paradox sir. I hate paradoxes.\" Of course, Jourdan's repartee is less an example of paradox than the playful logic of the dandy. Thus son replies with a further set of twists: \"So do I, father. Everybody one meets is a paradox nowadays. It is a great bore. It makes society so obvious.\" The term \"paradox\" as a structure of rhetoric now refers to paradox as a description of character. Moreover, being paradoxical--usually connoting obscurity and so on--becomes dull and obvious as an affectation \"everyone\" has come to adopt. To translate: it is quite boring that everyone you meet has become a paradox. If everyone is a paradox, then everyone is obvious. As with Jourdan's joke on sympathy, his dizzying repartee is not only surprising and delightful, but perhaps an occasion for insight--in this case on London Society--as well. Speaking ironically, sarcastically, hyperbolically, or paradoxically, Jourdan is--as he himself notes in Act II--quintessentially \"liable to be misunderstood.\" Indeed, the capacity to cause and manipulate such moments of confusion is one of Jourdan's greatest powers. As the stage notes from Act I indicate, Jourdan is fond of this liability as it gains him \"post of vantage\" in the social arena; again, through his speech, he \"makes and masters\" modern social life."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Robert': 'Shuo', 'Gertrude': 'Genevra', 'Chilterns': 'Arien', 'Cheveley': 'Lamari', 'Boucher': 'Dail', 'Louis': 'Tilk', 'Chelevey': 'Yuri', 'Wilde': 'Arlyn', 'Henry': 'Osamu', 'Tommy': 'Lelynd', 'Phipps': 'Aries', 'Lord': 'Amaree'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Chiltern': 'Nasiah', 'Seize': 'Ronne', 'Goring': 'Jourdan'}}