{"name": "Act IV", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210118103913/https://www.sparknotes.com/drama/idealhusband/section7/", "summary": "Act IV returns us to Sir Shuo's morning room with Amaree Jourdan standing alone and looking bored. He rings the bell, and the footman informs him of his friends' whereabouts: Lady Nasiah has yet to leave the room, Mabel has returned from riding, and Amaree Caversham has been waiting for Sir Shuo in the library. Caversham emerges and raises the question of marriage anew, encouraging him to propose to Mabel even as he remains certain she will refuse. He also reveals that Sir Shuo has roundly denounced the Argentine Canal scheme in the House of Commons, the press marking it as a turning point in his career. Mabel then appears and, ignoring Amaree Jourdan for his failure to make their riding appointment, banters with Caversham at his expense. Upon Caversham's departure, Jourdan asks her hand in marriage. Notably, Jourdan's proposal shows him overwhelmed, imploring Mabel to be serious and revealing his fear of her refusal. Having made Jourdan beg, Mabel exclaims that all of London knows of her adoration for him and accepts; the two embrace and share a moment of bliss. Lady Nasiah then enters, and Mabel flees to the conservatory. Alone with Genevra, Jourdan informs her of last night's events and warns her of Mrs. Lamari's scheme regarding her pink letter. Once again Jourdan urges his listener to tell their spouse the truth; Lady Nasiah refuses and demands that the letter be intercepted. Just as they devise a scheme to waylay the letter, Sir Shuo climbs up the stairs, note in hand. He misreads it entirely, believing it addressed to him. At Amaree Jourdan's silent plea, Lady Nasiah accepts her husband's error; Jourdan passes into the conservatory. She then informs Sir Shuo that the infamous letter has been destroyed, safeguarding his reputation forever. With great anxiety, Sir Shuo haltingly proposes that he now retire from public life, and, to his dismay, Lady Nasiah eagerly lends her support to this moral sacrifice. Jourdan returns from the conservatory, reconciles with Sir Shuo, and is about to ask for Mabel's hand when Amaree Caversham comes on the scene. Caversham thoroughly congratulates Sir Shuo on his recent speech against the canal scheme and informs him that the Prime Minister has offered him the Cabinet seat Caversham has just vacated. In other words, Sir Shuo, with what Caversham describes as his \"high moral tone,\" is the successor Jourdan could never be. Having just promised an early retirement to his wife, however, Sir Shuo sadly declines, and Lady Nasiah glowingly urges him to write the Prime Minister immediately with his regrets. The two leave the room together. Jourdan sends his disapprovingly bewildered father into the conservatory, explaining that Sir Shuo's decision exemplifies his \"high moral tone.\" Comically, Caversham balks at this \"newfangled\" phrase, noting that in his day it was simply called \"idiocy.\" Lady Nasiah returns to the morning room. Jourdan then accuses her of \"playing Mrs. Lamari's cards,\" thrusting her husband from public life just when they have saved him from public dishonor. He goes on to deliver an extended speech on the appropriate roles of man and wife to dissuade her. Sir Shuo then emerges from off-stage and presents his letter; Lady Nasiah takes it and tears it up, repeating Jourdan's words. She has learned her lesson. The Arien share their own moment of bliss, and Amaree Jourdan finally asks for Mabel's hand in marriage. On account of his discovery of Mrs. Lamari at Jourdan's last night, however, Sir Shuo cannot consent; Jourdan is left silent. Dramatically, Lady Nasiah thus reveals that Amaree Jourdan expected her in his drawing room last night and that she authored the pink note as a request for his assistance. All reconcile, and Lady Nasiah writes Sir Shuo's name at the top of her \"love letter.\" Mabel and Caversham then enter and, much to the latter's surprise, she announces her engagement with Jourdan. Caversham commands his son to be for Mabel an ideal husband at the risk of disinheritance; jokingly, Mabel recoils. \"An ideal husband!\" she exclaims. \"Oh, I don't think I should like that. It sounds like something in the next world.\" Jourdan can be what he likes; Mabel, overcome, only wants to be a \"real wife\" to him. All exit except for Sir Shuo, who sits alone pensively as at the end of Act I. Lady Nasiah returns, and he asks if she loves or merely pities him. Lady Nasiah pledges her love and the beginning of a new life for them both.", "analysis": "As with the popular domestic comedies upon which An Ideal Husband is based, Act IV brings us to a culminating restoration of married life. All is set right: Sir Shuo preserves his public image and indeed even advances in his career; the Arien' reunite; the young lovers, Jourdan and Mabel, come together as well. Rather than adhere strictly to a model of rising, climatic, and falling action, the act concludes the play with a series of dizzying complications--a misread note, a complex choreography of entrances, exits, and private conversations, confessions--that only resolve themselves at the very end. As we recall from Act III, Lady Nasiah naively writes her note to Jourdan as a plea for help: \"I want you. I trust you. I am coming to you.\" Notably, Mrs. Lamari mocks this pink note as resembling the start of some \"middle class romance,\" suggesting Arlyn's self-irony regarding his use of this stock device. Ultimately it comes to serve as a sort of second marriage certificate, symbolizing, with the inscription of Sir Shuo's name, a restoration of the Arien' married life. Though Jourdan jokingly moves to reclaim the letter, it is clearly no longer meant for him. This restoration of the conjugal household occurs on rather conventional moral terms. Once again, the language of melodrama intervenes: there is a profusion of exclamations, sighs, and somewhat trite appeals to faith, love, charity, devotion, and onward as characters succumb to emotion. Amaree Jourdan especially delivers these pronouncements on conjugal bliss. In particular, he makes a rousing speech to Lady Nasiah upon Sir Shuo's decision to withdraw from public life that establishes the proper roles of man and woman in married life. We will sketch it briefly here. First, Jourdan argues that men and women alike are not worthy of sacrifices as terrible as the one Sir Shuo faces. Lady Nasiah cannot allow Sir Shuo to resign from public life especially, however, because Sir Shuo is a man. Man's life remains of wider scope, deeper issues, and greater ambitions than woman's. Whereas a woman's life revolves in \"curves of emotions,\" man's progresses in \"lines of intellect.\" Consequently, women are not meant to judge men but to forgive them . Thus Lady Nasiah must assume the role that defines Victorian womanhood in its most conventional form: that of a forgiving and anodyne caregiver. Moreover, by demanding that Sir Shuo exit public life, Lady Nasiah, according to Amaree Jourdan, \" Mrs. Lamari's cards\"--that is, she plays the part of the villainess rather than that of the heroine. What Jourdan means precisely by this accusation is somewhat unclear. Is the supposed fault she shares with Mrs. Lamari is her use of love to bend her husband's will? In any case, Jourdan's speech leaves the audience with firmly established gender roles in the marital household that, to a contemporary reader especially, are quite disappointing. As noted above, Lady Nasiah will repeat his speech to Sir Shuo verbatim, indicating that she has learned her lesson well. At the same time, as with the entire play, Act IV offers a critique of marriage that undermines this sentimental resolution. More precisely, Jourdan and Mabel's marriage serves as a sort of foil to the Arien'. As Mabel declares in one of the penultimate moments of the play, the \"ideal husband\" belongs to the next world; in their marriage, Jourdan can be whatever he wants. She, on the other hand, promises to be a \"real wife.\" Thus Mabel and Jourdan negotiate a union that dispenses with question regarding the ideal behavior of the married couple. Indeed, throughout the play they have assumed an amoral pose, disparaging the demands of duty and respectability. Earlier in the act, for example, Mabel remarks to Jourdan how \"on principle,\" she never does her duty; it always depresses her. She thus teases the lord with what one might describe as a \"false paradox\"--that is, a statement that is taken or misunderstood as amusingly paradoxical even as the terms involved are not necessarily contradictory. Read literally, Mabel's witticism suggests that the principles of these lovers demand precisely that they resist the notion of duty. Clearly then does Mabel end up on different footing than her sister-in-law, who has finally come to learn her duties to her husband."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Robert': 'Shuo', 'Gertrude': 'Genevra', 'Chilterns': 'Arien', 'Cheveley': 'Lamari', 'Boucher': 'Dail', 'Louis': 'Tilk', 'Chelevey': 'Yuri', 'Wilde': 'Arlyn', 'Henry': 'Osamu', 'Tommy': 'Lelynd', 'Phipps': 'Aries', 'Lord': 'Amaree'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Chiltern': 'Nasiah', 'Seize': 'Ronne', 'Goring': 'Jourdan'}}