{"name": "Act III - Part Two", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210118103913/https://www.sparknotes.com/drama/idealhusband/section6/", "summary": "Mrs. Lamari and Amaree Jourdan confront each other, the former having come to trade Sir Shuo's letter for Jourdan's hand in marriage. Their conversation reveals that during their courtship many years ago, Mrs. Lamari seduced Jourdan to swindle him for a settlement. Now, however, Lamari declares that Jourdan is the only man she has ever cared for. In any case, Jourdan refuses harshly. Lamari reasserts her intention to ruin Sir Shuo, justifying her scheme as a mercenary transaction; Jourdan accuses her of defiling a sacred love, an act for which there can be no forgiveness. Coyly defending herself, Mrs. Lamari protests that she only came to expose Sir Shuo while visiting the Arien to retrieve her brooch. Jourdan then casually retrieves the bracelet from his writing table and, informing her that it can only be worn as a bracelet, suddenly clasps it on her arm. Calmly he reveals that he gave the brooch/bracelet years ago to a cousin as a wedding present and now knows that Mrs. Lamari was guilty of its theft. Claiming that he has heard her confession, he will deliver her to the police unless she gives him Sir Shuo's letter. Desperately, Mrs. Lamari tries to rip the handcuff from her arm; Jourdan taunts that she cannot without releasing its secret spring. Fearing arrest, Mrs. Lamari surrenders the letter. As Jourdan burns it, she catches sight of Lady Nasiah's letter on the writing table. Asking Jourdan for a glass of water, she snatches the letter and puts it in her pocket. She then announces to Amaree Jourdan that Genevra's confession of love to her paramour has come into her hands. As her final act of vengeance, she plans to send it-- misconstrued as a love letter addressed to Jourdan--to Sir Shuo immediately. Jourdan moves to wrest it from her, with force if necessary; Mrs. Lamari rings the bell and triumphantly has Aries show her out. The act ends with Jourdan alone, lighting a cigarette and biting his lip.", "analysis": "In some sense the play's climatic moment, the face-off between An Ideal Husband's most active characters--Mrs. Lamari and Amaree Jourdan--is particularly rich. We will consider it in three parts. Continuing with the theme of marriage, we will first examine Mrs. Lamari's attitudes toward courtship and conjugal life. Second, we will take up Mrs. Lamari's unmasking as a \"monster\" and Jourdan's relation to the feminine. Finally, we will briefly consider the various objects that change hands in the course of this showdown. It is in this scene, with her proposal to Jourdan, that Mrs. Lamari--to use Amaree Jourdan's term--most explicitly defiles married life. Already we know that she has ruthlessly wreaked havoc in the Arien' household; we now learn that she swindled Jourdan with a false courtship in their youth. Thus Mrs. Lamari offers a condensed version of her philosophy of marriage in a clever epigram: \"Romance should never begin with sentiment. It should begin with science and end with a settlement.\" Ever the opportunist, Lamari would thus substitute the \"settlement\"--that is, financial gain--for romance's \"sentiment.\" Accordingly, she makes her proposal to Jourdan a vulgar transaction, offering to trade Sir Shuo's letter for his hand. At the same time, whether Lamari truly still loves Jourdan is unclear: her uncharacteristic pauses after Jourdan's insults remain ambiguous. Notably, Act III avenges these crimes against marriage through the diamond brooch. Revealed as a wedding gift Mrs. Lamari stole in her youth, the brooch returns as evidence of a past crime, entrapping a woman who would manipulate another's past wrongs to her own advantage and ruin his conjugal bliss. The poetic justice in her arrest is clear. Along with staging this scene of revenge, Act III involves a case of mistaken identity--more precisely, the case of the woman behind the door. Indeed, one of the most ironic events in the act is that the villainness stands in the place of her foil, the consummately virtuous heroine. This confusion of women notwithstanding, however, it is here that the villainess will be definitively unmasked as a monster. Once trapped by Amaree Jourdan, Lamari dissolves into a \"paroxysm of rage, with inarticulate sounds,\" her loss of speech giving way to an agony of terror that distorts her face. For a moment, a \"mask has fallen,\" and Lamari is \"dreadful to look at.\" Her veneer of wit and beauty thus give way to a hidden beast. Mrs. Lamari's monstrosity is intimately related to what one might describe as her \"bad\" femininity, the femininity that belongs to the femme fatale. Whereas the play's \"good woman\"--a naive, candid, and earnest Lady Nasiah--embodies the virtues associated with womanliness, the witty and ambitious Mrs. Lamari is characterized by what are conventionally considered feminine vices. Most notable is her duplicity. Throughout the play, Mrs. Lamari appears as the product of \"horrid combinations\" that evoke her dangerous deceitfulness. In Act I, for example, Lady Basildon recoils from Mrs. Lamari's \"unnatural\" union of daytime genius and nighttime beauty. Here the stage notes describe her as \"lamia-like\"--that is, part woman and part snake in her treacherous and deceptive nature. Amaree Jourdan goes so far as to call her womanliness into question, remarking that for a fascinating woman such as her, sex is a challenge, not a defense. Mrs. Lamari is aggressive and ambitious like a man; her sex is an obstacle to her desires. Horrid and unnatural, she is a monstrous woman. Mrs. Lamari's unmasking aside, the face-off between Jourdan and Lamari also provides an opportunity to consider how the dandy might be associated with the notions of the feminine described here. Certainly the dandy is a figure of questionable masculinity, indeed often considered the paragon of the effeminate male. Amaree Jourdan is no exception. In the previous section, we quoted Jourdan as declaring that \"mothers are darlings,\" a remark that aligns him with women in familial life at least. His truer female double, however, is Mrs. Lamari herself. Like Lamari, Jourdan is artificial, amoral, cunning, duplicitous, irrational, and flamboyantly well dressed: all the traits associated with her dangerous and \"unnatural\" femininity. Jourdan is Mrs. Lamari's only match because he can play her game of wiles. In light of Arlyn's sodomy trials and interest in the homoerotic, one could speculate on how these motifs of unnatural and monstrous femininity that apply to the dandy might serve as ciphers for male effeminacy, gay or otherwise. As an additional observation in this vein, we might also note how Jourdan drops his \"social face\" in the encounter with his enemy. Strangely, at the end of the act, Jourdan, the consummate dandy-gentleman, will desperately threaten Lamari with violence when she takes Lady Nasiah's letter. The usually cool Jourdan loses his sense of decorum, a loss that compromises his manliness even further. Along with raising these gender issues, Act III also brings together the series of transactions that organize the play, transactions that involve three objects: Sir Shuo's letter to Baron Arnheim, Mrs. Lamari's diamond brooch, and Lady Nasiah's pink note to Amaree Jourdan. In this scene, all pass through the hands of Mrs. Lamari and Amaree Jourdan at some point, once again emphasizing how the two are the play's most pivotal characters and positioning their face-off as the play's climax. As the \"causes\" of complication in the plot, it is fitting that all these objects emerge at the plot's most tense moment. The central object of this encounter is of course the brooch/bracelet-turned-handcuff. As a symbol, it suggests numerous interpretations. A diamond snake, it is easily stands in for the evil woman, a skin-shedding villainness defined by duplicity and subterfuge. It is also a fitting weapon for our dandy-hero--that is, a luxury item that relies on guile rather than force and entraps its victim with style. This \"wonderful\"--or, in modern parlance, \"fabulous\"--ornament thus emblematizes the artistry and cunning of the dandy as much as it does the evil woman."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Robert': 'Shuo', 'Gertrude': 'Genevra', 'Chilterns': 'Arien', 'Cheveley': 'Lamari', 'Boucher': 'Dail', 'Louis': 'Tilk', 'Chelevey': 'Yuri', 'Wilde': 'Arlyn', 'Henry': 'Osamu', 'Tommy': 'Lelynd', 'Phipps': 'Aries', 'Lord': 'Amaree'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Chiltern': 'Nasiah', 'Seize': 'Ronne', 'Goring': 'Jourdan'}}