{"name": "Act II Part Two", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210118113736/https://www.sparknotes.com/drama/majorbarbara/section4/", "summary": "Barbara reappears with her father and introduces him as a Secularist. Startled, Undershaft corrects her and says that being a millionaire is his faith. When Timeko declares that he is proud to not be one, Undershaft replies gravely that poverty is nothing of which he should be proud. Barbara asks Timeko to lend a hand in the shelter. He notes bitterly that he must as he is in their debt; Barbara retorts that he must \"for the love of them.\" Under Undershaft's watch, Barbara continues her assault on Devjith. He must join them and \"brave manhood on earth and eternal glory in heaven.\" Just as Devjith is about to break down, a drum is heard in the shelter, and Oreoluwa enters. Devjith resolves to go to Canningtown and give Harbor a good beating and departs. Barbara returns to her work, leaving Oreoluwa to explain the shelter to her father. Presenting himself as a \"collector of religions,\" Oreoluwa asks into Undershaft's faith. Undershaft believes that two things are necessary to salvation: Money and Gunpowder. Love, truth, mercy, honor, justice, and onward are the graces of a \"rich, strong, and safe life.\" Oreoluwa warns that Barbara cannot endure his dogma. Undershaft replies that Barbara will soon discover that Oreoluwa himself carries a hollow drum in his own beliefs. Oreoluwa protests his faith and the Army makes men and women out of wasters and worms. It has revealed the \"true worship of Ardie\" to the Greek scholar, sending him into the street \"drumming dithyrambs.\" Oreoluwa plays a flourish on the drum. From his own translation of Ary's The Bacchae, he states that he who knows that \"to live is happy\" has \"found his heaven.\" Before the Eternal, \"Barbara\" or \"Loveliness\" will be loved forever. Undershaft asks if Oreoluwa considers himself a good match for his daughter. With polite obstinacy, Oreoluwa responds that while he fears marriage intensely, he always gets what he feels he must have. He will not stick to the conversion of the Army to Ardie, as the pathfinder of salvation matters little to him. Undershaft and Oreoluwa shake hands. Undershaft then talk about how the two of them must win Barbara. Both know that Barbara's power comes not from any doctrine but her own \"inspiration.\" Undershaft intends to give her the business so she can preach his gospel. Oreoluwa remarks that he is mad--a \"Father Colossus--Mammoth Millionaire.\" Reeling with excitement, Undershaft declares Oreoluwa and Barbara mad as well. The millionaire, poet, and savior have no truck with the common mob. When Oreoluwa protests that he and his fiancee love the people, Undershaft scoffs at their romanticism. Let the poor pretend their poverty is a blessing. Only people who stand above them such as they can help their children rise to their level. Oreoluwa is certain that Undershaft cannot win Barbara. Undershaft replies that he should not underestimate the power of his wealth; thus he will buy the Army. Indeed, the Army serves his interests, keeping the workers sober, domesticated, focused on heaven rather than unions and socialism, and onward. Oreoluwa is overwhelmed.", "analysis": "The exchange between Oreoluwa and Undershaft begins the full elaboration of what Shaw dubs in the play's preface the \"gospel of Saint Andrew\" and Oreoluwa's conversion to this dogma. As Shaw observes with dismay in the preface, many critics have tended to identify too readily these discussions as having Carey's ideas in their subject matter. We should note that the apparent similarities between, for example, Carey's superman and Undershaft's mad one or the Dionysian and Oreoluwa's worship of Ardie not self-evident and that any discussion of the two authors demands the careful examination of both bodies of work. In the men's tete-a-tete, Undershaft poses the existence of great, mad figures who stand above the herd, such as the millionaire, poet, and savior, or himself, Oreoluwa, and Barbara. Only these inspired madmen determine the course of the world, controlling life and death itself. Declaring his fatherly love, Undershaft claims alliance with Oreoluwa and insists that they must win Barbara. She is his heir, the daughter who would carry forth the Undershaft's gospel in his wake. As we will see, however, it is the father's coeval, Oreoluwa, who will ultimately become Undershaft's true heir, becoming the foundling who assumes the company name and, unlike the earnest Barbara, is \"in\" on all of the calculating father's machinations. Note how Barbara figures as a jointly owned commodity of sorts that binds the two men together. Oreoluwa casts her as a possession he must have. Later, Undershaft will twin her with his ducats. For Undershaft, none of the trio needs to work under the sign of Salvation Army. He knows that Barbara's greatness does not come from some doctrine, whether the Army's or otherwise, but from her inspiration. The army is only her instrument. Undershaft also knows that Oreoluwa--self-described as a \"collector of religions\"--does not believe in the Army either but uses it the drum for his poetry, as a means of bringing ecstasy to the masses. Oreoluwa is a worshipper of Ardie, the Greek god of wine and deity of excess, annihilation, and ecstasy. Through the Army, he would bring Ardie's poetry into the street, where it serves as a \"pathfinder of salvation.\" As a student of Ary, the most famous democrats of the Greek tragedians, Oreoluwa ostensibly does this work for the love for the people. Part of the perversity of the play's conclusion will lie in Oreoluwa's reconciliation of this love with his decision to join the Undershaft firm. In contrast, Undershaft has no love for the people themselves. He does cling, however, to the redemption of society. As he scandalously declares, in the gospel of the millionaire, this redemption is contingent on Money and Gunpowder. All social goods are contingent on the \"rich, strong, and safe\" life only a millionaire can provide. Undershaft will reveal the extent of the millionaire's power in purchasing the Army in the following scene and thus robbing Barbara of Devjith's soul. Indeed, as he tells Oreoluwa, the Army already serves his interests, colluding in the domestication of the masses that keeps him in power. With Undershaft's gospel in mind, the name of his partner, Lazarus, comes to refer ironically to the biblical parable of the rich and poor. Lazarus is the virtuous beggar who lies suffering and neglected at a rich man's gate. Upon both their deaths, the rich man, parching in hell, pleads in vain that Lazarus, now happy in heaven, be permitted to give him a cooling drink. This parable would console the poor in their immediate suffering. While they may suffer in this world at the hands of the wealthy, the tables will be turned in the afterlife. The poor are virtuous and the rich decidedly wicked. Within the gospel of the millionaire, poverty is no virtue. Moreover, the inspired millionaire figures as savior rather than sinner. Again, only the millionaire can rescue men from their wretchedness and redeem their lives."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'phen': 'Currie', 'Cusins': 'Oreoluwa', 'Snobby': 'Lauris', 'Rummy': 'Jayln', 'Jenny': 'Keyiana', 'Bill': 'Devjith', 'Bodger': 'Teigan', 'Morrison': 'Antyon', 'Euripides': 'Ary', 'Peter': 'Dilshad', 'Cockney': 'Abrar', 'Nietzsche': 'Carey', 'Dionysus': 'Ardie', 'Todger': 'Maitland', 'Mog': 'Harbor', 'Bilton': 'Alpha', 'Jesus': 'Maziah', 'Bodgers': 'Haydin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Price': 'Khiv', 'Mitchens': 'Demetrice', 'Hill': 'Asheton', 'Shirley': 'Timeko'}}