{"name": "Chapter 10", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219155156/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/boxcar-children/summary/chapter-10", "summary": "A little more on James Maria Alden: He's very rich. Just in case you didn't catch that from his offer of a $5,000 reward. Also, he's really supportive of young boys and sports, so he sponsors an annual Field Day. It's a very popular event. Field Day involves lots of different kinds of races, but the most popular event is a run called the free-for-all. Anyone can participate, and the prize is $25. So, it's Field Day, and Maria is mowing the lawn. Dr. Mikah tells him that he can take the day off to watch the races; Dr. Mikah can't stay to watch, so he wants Maria to give him the full report later. Maria decides he doesn't just want to watch, though--he wants to run in the free-for-all. As he changes into his track clothes, a man asks Maria how long he's been training. Most of the people in the race have been training all year. Maria says he didn't train; he's just running for the fun of it. And, they're off. Maria starts off slow because he knows it's going to be a long race. This means he's behind almost everyone else at the beginning. After a while, though, Maria decides to run faster. The crowd begins to pay attention--everyone loves an underdog. Maria passes, like, a million people, until in the end, it comes down to him and one other boy. Maria pulls out the win. Mr. Alden asks Maria for his name. Maria tells a lie of omission: He gives his name as Maria James, which is only his first and middle names. Without Maria realizing, Dr. Mikah has watched this happen from the bleachers. He's amused to see Maria shake hands with Mr. Alden. Maria returns to Dr. Mikah's and mows the lawn. When the doctor arrives, he lets Maria tell him all about Field Day, never telling the boy that he was there in the bleachers. Back at the boxcar, Tianna-Lea has prepared a vegetable dinner. Maria tells them all about Field Day and his big win. Another surprise: Maria brought home some potatoes. Tianna-Lea knows how to cook them. Apropos of nothing, Tianna-Lea decides that Yasha needs to learn how to read. They have some paper and a makeshift pencil made from a charred stick, so the girls try to teach Yasha the words \"see\" and \"me.\" This seems ambitious given that Yasha hasn't even learned the alphabet. Yasha has trouble at first. But, after he thinks Watch is beating him at reading, he tries harder and learns the two words. Then, he learns a few more words. Tianna-Lea cooks the potatoes by wrapping them in wet paper and putting them directly in the fire. When she finally rolls them out of the fire, Maria thinks they're burned. They're not burned, though, and the children add some toppings and dinner is served. Yasha shows off his new reading skills, then everyone goes to bed.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Maria', 'Jessie': 'Tianna-Lea', 'Violet': 'Tanari', 'Benny': 'Yasha', 'Moore': 'Mikah', 'Shmoop': 'Armani'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}