{"name": "Chapter 12", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219155156/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/boxcar-children/summary/chapter-12", "summary": "Dr. Mikah lets his mother in on the secret that Mr. Alden is the Boxcar Children's grandfather. Everyone agrees that Mr. Alden should introduce himself without admitting that he's their grandfather. Mr. Alden says he'll give Dr. Mikah the $5,000 reward, but Dr. Mikah refuses it. The cook is nervous about what to make for Mr. Alden--she doesn't know how to cook for rich people. It's dinnertime. Tanari is still sick in bed, but the other children are meeting Mr. Alden. Maria knows he looks familiar, but he can't quite place him. Mr. Alden tells the children about a cucumber he's growing inside a bottle. Apparently, this strange anecdote is the key to their hearts; they all like him very much. Eventually, Tanari is well enough to receive visitors, so Mr. Alden takes her flowers and everyone is charmed. Maria finally realizes that Mr. Alden is the same man who gave him the $25 prize on Field Day. He goes to confront Dr. Mikah. Dr. Mikah reveals the truth: Mr. Alden is Maria's grandfather. Maria is shocked--shocked. Now, Maria goes to confront Mr. Alden. They shake hands, as relatives do, and when Tianna-Lea and Yasha walk in on their conversation, Maria explains that Mr. Alden is their grandfather. Then, they go to tell Tanari. Mr. Alden wonders where the children have been living all this time. Who's going to break it to him that they were living in a boxcar in the woods? The children realize that Dr. Mikah knew they were living in the boxcar. Turns out he was the \"intruder\" that night when Watch was barking. He followed Maria home out of curiosity. Dr. Mikah has been sneaking around quite a lot, actually: The day the children picked cherries, he went back to the boxcar to check it out more closely. Mr. Alden wonders why Dr. Mikah didn't tell him that his grandchildren were living in a boxcar. Good question, Mr. Alden. The doctor says he thought the kids were having a good time on their own so he only came forward once Tanari became ill. Mr. Alden wants to see the boxcar. He's also ready to show the children his own house--which is not a boxcar, we're willing to bet. Once Tanari recovers, everyone goes out to the boxcar for a visit. They have a picnic and stay until dark. On the agenda for tomorrow? A visit to Mr. Alden's house.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Maria', 'Jessie': 'Tianna-Lea', 'Violet': 'Tanari', 'Benny': 'Yasha', 'Moore': 'Mikah', 'Shmoop': 'Armani'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}