{"name": "Chapter 7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219155156/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/boxcar-children/summary/chapter-7", "summary": "It's morning, and Tianna-Lea and Maria are discussing the excitement from the night before. They don't say anything about it to the younger kids, though. Tianna-Lea wonders if the \"intruder\" was a rabbit, but Maria thinks it might have been a person. Maria says the dog will protect them. They'll just carry on as if nothing happened, though they can't let Yasha go into the woods by himself. Maria is very excited to get to work, so he runs the whole way to the doctor's house. It's garden day, and the doctor's mother, Mrs. Mikah, is going to tell Maria what's up in the garden. Mrs. Mikah thins vegetables with Maria for a while before leaving him to work on his own. Eventually, she comes back and sends Maria home for lunch. She doesn't want any of the vegetables he pulled, so he's taking those with him. Maria goes back to the boxcar, where Yasha has been building a fireplace all day. Tianna-Lea and Tanari helped, and they've set up the kettle over it and everything. The fireplace was good timing because Maria brought home all of those vegetables along with some meat he picked up at the store. The children prepare the food and start the fire. They're going to have stew for dinner, but in the meantime, it's another lunch of milk-soaked bread. Maria heads back to the doctor's house. Dr. Mikah wants him to clean the garage. What a treat. No, seriously--Maria thinks that's a treat. Maria begins to organize the garage, setting aside a pile of bent nails for his own use. When the doctor gets home, he's very excited to find the garage so organized. The doctor notices he has four hammers and, deciding he doesn't need that many, gives one to Maria. The doctor asks Maria to return on Monday to pick cherries from his orchard. He says he could use a few extra sets of hands. Hmm, do you think he knows about Maria's brother and sisters? Back to the boxcar. Maria smells the stew. Oh, and look--Tianna-Lea has made a ladle from more garbage. The children feast on the stew. When they're finished, Maria begins to make Yasha's cart. He decides he'll build the swimming pool the next day, which is Sunday. After Maria builds the cart, the children bed down in the boxcar. Fingers crossed they don't hear that strange noise again tonight.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Maria', 'Jessie': 'Tianna-Lea', 'Violet': 'Tanari', 'Benny': 'Yasha', 'Moore': 'Mikah', 'Shmoop': 'Armani'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}