{"name": "Chapter 6", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219155156/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/boxcar-children/summary/chapter-6", "summary": "It's time for dinner, which means Maria is finally going to reveal what's in those bundles. Nothing too exciting: bread, milk, dried meat, and a bone for the dog. Dinner is bread soaked in milk. Tianna-Lea declares how fun it is to eat with spoons. Poor Tianna-Lea. Maria tells the kids about his day: He walked into town and stumbled upon a doctor mowing his lawn. Maria offered to help and, boom, he was hired. You go, Maria. Impressed with Maria's lawn-mowing skills, the doctor tells Maria he wants him to work every day. The doctor paid Maria $1 for his work, and the cook gave him a huge bag of cookies. Score. In town, Maria bought a tablecloth, which Tanari can't wait to hem to the right length. The meal finished, the girls wash the dishes, and Maria heads back into town. That afternoon, Tianna-Lea makes a broom, and Tanari works on the tablecloth. Watch and Yasha take a nap. Maria returns later in the day with a special treat: butter. The children feast. Tianna-Lea asks Maria about his day. He washed the doctor's car and the windows. Very industrious. Hot and tired from the day's work, Maria looks at the brook and wonders if he could build a swimming pool. Yasha offers his wheels for the pool for some reason, but Maria decides he'll make a cart so Yasha can haul stones. Bedtime. Everyone falls asleep straight away except for Maria, who's up obsessing over the pool. Suddenly, he notices that the dog is on high alert. Watch starts to growl, and now Tianna-Lea is awake. She and Maria are frightened, and they decide to close the door to the boxcar. Uh-oh, Watch is still growling--Tianna-Lea wonders if there's a person out in the woods. A stick breaks, and Watch begins to bark. If there really is a person in the woods, now they know about the boxcar. Yikes. Poor, frightened Maria grabs the broom and waits expectantly for an intruder ... but no one comes. Whew. After a long wait, Maria opens the boxcar door. Watch promptly goes to sleep, letting Maria and Tianna-Lea know all is well once more. Finally, they go to sleep, too.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Maria', 'Jessie': 'Tianna-Lea', 'Violet': 'Tanari', 'Benny': 'Yasha', 'Moore': 'Mikah', 'Shmoop': 'Armani'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}