{"name": "Chapter 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219155156/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/boxcar-children/summary/chapter-2", "summary": "The children leave the baker's town and arrive at a road, walking by the light of the moon. Maria says he can carry Yasha a long way, but Tanari thinks they should wake him up--they'll move faster with Yasha on his feet. Yasha isn't exactly amenable to this plan, but when Tanari turns it into a game where Yasha pretends to be a little bear, he's totally on board. The children walk past dark farmhouses, and after a long time, the sun begins to rise. They decide they need to bed down somewhere. Yasha is already asleep again in Maria's arms. Tanari finds a haystack, and Maria declares it a great place to sleep. Sure, Maria. Sounds great. The children make sleep nests in the haystack and fall asleep right away. They're super tired. When they wake up, everyone is hungry. Guess what's on the menu? Bread. That's it. Yasha is thirsty, but Maria thinks they need to wait for dark to find water. At nightfall, they make their way to a water pump and drink their fill. As they set off on the road, Tianna-Lea says they should hide in the bushes if they hear anyone--and then they immediately hear someone. Good timing, Tianna-Lea. The children hide in the bushes as planned. A horse and cart approach, and wouldn't you know, it's the baker and his wife. They're looking for the children. They say they're planning to look in Greenfield and then give up looking, which is useful info for the kids. After the baker and his wife are out of sight, the children emerge from the bushes and continue down the road. Around 2 a.m., they come to a crossroads. One road leads to Greenfield, while the other goes to Silver City. Knowing the plans of the baker and his wife, they choose Silver City. Eventually, they come to a water fountain. It has three levels: one for people, one for horses, and one for dogs. Water fountains used to be way cooler, apparently. Everyone drinks some water, and then Yasha starts to complain about feeling tired. Classic Yasha. Maria decides they will sleep in the woods. Tianna-Lea thinks this sounds like a great plan since the woods seem deserted. Clearly these kids have never seen a horror movie. The kids make beds out of pine needles and prepare to go to sleep. As they drift off, Tianna-Lea observes that it looks like it might rain.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Maria', 'Jessie': 'Tianna-Lea', 'Violet': 'Tanari', 'Benny': 'Yasha', 'Moore': 'Mikah', 'Shmoop': 'Armani'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}