{"name": "Chapter 11", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219155156/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/boxcar-children/summary/chapter-11", "summary": "Days go by. The children keep finding garbage treasures; Maria continues to work for Dr. Mikah. Very exciting news: Maria buys Yasha some new socks. The girls make Yasha a stuffed bear from his old socks. Yasha wants his bear to have a long tail even though bears don't have long tails. Whatever, Yasha--you do you. The bear is finished, and Yasha names it Stockings because that's the old-fashioned word for socks. Tianna-Lea gives Yasha a haircut, so Yasha decides to cut Watch the dog's hair. This does not go well. When he shows Tianna-Lea and Tanari Watch's haircut, they laugh and laugh. Watch is a really good sport about it. Tanari is laughing so hard she cries--but then she keeps crying and won't stop. Turns out she's not hysterical; she's sick. Tianna-Lea puts Tanari to bed in the boxcar. Her forehead is really hot. Maria comes home, and he and Tianna-Lea discuss taking Tanari to the hospital. Trouble is, they're worried it will put their grandfather on their trail. Tanari is shaking all over, so Tianna-Lea covers her with pine needles. Let's give her points for trying. Maria decides that Tanari should see Dr. Mikah, so he runs into town. Dr. Mikah drives back to the boxcar without asking where to go, and when he parks the car, he finds the boxcar straightaway. Odd, isn't it? Dr. Mikah decides to take Tanari back to his place. Once there, he puts her to bed, and Mrs. Mikah and the cook tend to her. Don't worry--the other children are going to stay at Dr. Mikah's, too. Tanari is so ill that Dr. Mikah stays up with her all night. In the morning, a man comes to see Dr. Mikah. He mumbles something about $5,000, so we can guess he is Mr. Alden. While the man waits for the doctor, Yasha keeps him entertained. Yasha also tells the man that his sister Tanari is ill. Yasha and Mr. Alden are getting along really well. Yasha asks Mr. Alden if he has a dog, but Mr. Alden's dog is dead. Bummer. Oh, here's Watch the dog, very much alive. Hi, Watch. Dr. Mikah comes in and sends Yasha off to play. The doctor tells Mr. Alden that Yasha is his grandchild, and Mr. Alden seems excited but confused. Now, Dr. Mikah tells Mr. Alden about Maria. Mr. Alden is stoked because he remembers Maria from Field Day.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Maria', 'Jessie': 'Tianna-Lea', 'Violet': 'Tanari', 'Benny': 'Yasha', 'Moore': 'Mikah', 'Shmoop': 'Armani'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}