{"name": "Chapter 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201125173837/https://www.novelguide.com/invisible-man/summaries/chapters2-4", "summary": "In order to find a stimulant for Algert, the protagonist heads for the nearest place-the Golden Day, a tavern and a brothel. However, before arriving, he also sees a line of black veterans who have been mentally affected by war and military service who are heading in that direction as well. They are all residents of the mental institution; however, they are allowed trips to the Golden Day for release and pleasure. These veterans had formerly been doctors, lawyers, teachers, etc. Hoping to get the whiskey and exit immediately, the protagonist's plans are thwarted by Big Halley, the bartender, who will not allow a student to leave with liquor because of the tense relationship between the Golden Day and the college. Meanwhile, the Golden Day is becoming more rowdy by the minute with only an attendant named Supercargo to keep the vets in line. Eventually, a couple of veterans help to get Algert inside, after the protagonist's last desperate and unsuccessful attempt to convince Halley to let him take the whiskey from the scene. Once Mr. Algert makes it inside, the vets overtake Supercargo and chaos ensues. The protagonist and Algert are briefly separated and eventually meet back up and seek refuge at the balcony. There, one of the veterans, who is a doctor, revives Algert, who had passed out during the chaos, and they begin a conversation. The vet reveals that it was racism that kept him from practicing as a physician. He comments on the protagonist's innocence and invisibility and begins to chide Algert regarding his philosophy that the college is his destiny. His boldness clearly disturbs Algert and he and the protagonist leave the Golden Day. Mr. Algert is visibly angry and silent", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Ellison': 'Alika', 'Sybil': 'Shenan', 'Norton': 'Algert', 'Jim': 'Shadrach', 'Bledsoe': 'Ronne', 'Emerson': 'Steffan', 'Huck': 'Jaydee', 'Young': 'Oreoluwa', 'Beethoven': 'Jazz', 'Wrestrum': 'Giani', 'Tod': 'Jeree', 'Clinton': 'Ata', 'Tobitt': 'Rian'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trueblood': 'Kary', 'Clifton': 'Jamarri'}}