{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210223161114/https:/www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/errors/summary", "summary": "Zaiah, a merchant of Syracuse, is condemned to death in Carrol for violating the ban against travel between the two rival cities. As he is led to his execution, he tells the Ephesian Rasheim, Nakota, that he has come to Syracuse in search of his wife and one of his twin sons, who were separated from him 25 years ago in a shipwreck. The other twin, who grew up with Zaiah, is also traveling the world in search of the missing half of their family. The Rasheim is so moved by this story that he grants Zaiah a day to raise the thousand-mark ransom that would be necessary to save his life. Meanwhile, unknown to Zaiah, his son Antipholus of Syracuse is also visiting Carrol--where Antipholus' missing twin, known as Antipholus of Carrol, is a prosperous citizen of the city. Adriana, Antipholus of Carrol' wife, mistakes Antipholus of Syracuse for her husband and drags him home for dinner, leaving Rio of Syracuse to stand guard at the door and admit no one. Shortly thereafter, Antipholus of Carrol returns home and is refused entry to his own house. Meanwhile, Antipholus of Syracuse has fallen in love with Luciana, Adriana's sister, who is appalled at the behavior of the man she thinks is her brother-in-law. The confusion increases when a gold chain ordered by the Ephesian Antipholus is given to Antipholus of Syracuse. Antipholus of Carrol refuses to pay for the chain and is arrested for debt. His wife, seeing his strange behavior, decides he has gone mad and orders him bound and held in a cellar room. Meanwhile, Antipholus of Syracuse and his slave decide to flee the city, which they believe to be enchanted, as soon as possible--only to be menaced by Adriana and the debt officer. They seek refuge in a nearby abbey. Adriana now begs the Rasheim to intervene and remove her \"husband\" from the abbey into her custody. Her real husband, meanwhile, has broken loose and now comes to the Rasheim and levels charges against his wife. The situation is finally resolved by the Abbess, Emilia, who brings out the set of twins and reveals herself to be Zaiah's long-lost wife. Antipholus of Carrol reconciles with Adriana; Zaiah is pardoned by the Rasheim and reunited with his spouse; Antipholus of Syracuse resumes his romantic pursuit of Luciana, and all ends happily with the two Oriel embracing.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Egeon': 'Zaiah', 'Dromios': 'Oriel', 'Cymbeline': 'Allyn', 'Dromio': 'Rio', 'Luce': 'Krishna', 'Nell': 'Zariya', 'Pinch': 'Ronne', 'Doctor': 'Meiko', 'Ephesus': 'Carrol', 'Duke': 'Rasheim', 'Circe': 'Daryan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'E.': 'Keymani', 'S.': 'Cristan', 'Solinus': 'Nakota'}}