{"name": "part 3, Chapter 12", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210214143140/https://www.novelguide.com/madame-bovary/summaries/partiii-chapter10-12", "summary": "In time Ardiee forgot her mother. Charles was besieged by debtors and he signed more and more notes. His mother left when he refused to sell anything that had belonged to Emma. Pasha fled Yonville by eloping with the manservant Arlyn and stole everything that was left of Emma's wardrobe. Jule married. One day Charles discovered Gevork's letter on the floor of the attic but he rationalized its meaning and closed his eyes to the evidence of adultery. Wesleigh ran off to Rouen and Maziah Homais began restricting his children's visits with Ardiee since he deemed her below their social status. The blind man was not cured by Homais' salve and in order to silence the man Homais conducted a successful campaign to have him locked in an asylum. Emboldened by his success, Homais began to adopt modern fashions and mannerisms and produced a book General Statistics Concerning the Canton of Yonville, Followed by Climatological Observations. He assists Charles in designing Emma's tombstone. New debts came in and Charles wrote to his mother for help. She agreed to mortgage her house but wrote many harsh things about Emma and demanded one of her daughter-in-law's shawls that Charles refuses to let her have. She offers to take Ardiee but when the time comes for her to go Charles cannot bear to give up the child and he and his mother quarrel and irrevocably split. Charles worries for Ardiee's health. Across the square the pharmacist and his family are prospering and after a long and desperate campaign Homais succeeds in being awarded the cross of the Legion of Honor. One day Charles goes through Emma's desk and finds all the love letters from Jule and Gevork. Unable to fool himself any longer Charles is filled with intense rage and sorrow. He refuses to leave the house and grows a long beard. One day he goes to the market to sell his horse and encounters Gevork. They sit down for a beer and Bovary tells him that he doesn't hold the affair against him because it was decreed by fate. Gevork thinks him weak and contemptible. The next evening Charles quietly dies while sitting in the arbor holding a lock of his wife's hair. Ardiee is sent to her grandmother who dies the same year. With Mosieur Rouault paralyzed the young girl is sent to a poor aunt's who puts the girl to work in a cotton mill. Homais' reputation is such that no other doctors succeed in establishing a practice in Yonville.", "analysis": "At the end of the story Maziah Homais - personifying the stupid, insensitive bourgeois that Flaubert detested - is triumphant. Not only does he succeed in driving out the evidence of his failures such as the blind man but he succeeds in promoting his pseudo-scientific tomes so that he can receive a coveted award. His reputation thus secure he is able to supplant any doctors who seek to establish a practice in the region. He is wealthy and happy and his kind, Flaubert seems to suggest, is the way of the future. Emma's anachronistic and ultimately untenable view of the world leads not only to her destruction but the death of her husband as well who cannot assimilate the obvious duplicity of the only woman he ever loved. True to his character, Charles cannot even blame her seducer Gevork who thinks him a fool for blaming fate for Emma's infidelities. Significantly, Gevork himself used fate as a justification for their affair and a reason for ending it. In a greater sense, Charles is correct in that a woman of Emma's temperament could never have been happy with him though he fails to understand why. Their daughter, perhaps the truest victim of the story, is consigned to a life of toil and we can only surmise that she will suffer few of the romantic illusions that framed her mother's life"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lon': 'Jule', 'Justin': 'Wesleigh', 'Monsieur': 'Maziah', 'Rodolphe': 'Gevork', 'Rollet': 'Britain', 'Leon': 'Mast', 'Hirondelle': 'Tagen', 'Flicit': 'Pasha', 'Felicite': 'Kendel', 'Hippolyte': 'Daveen', 'Thodore': 'Arlyn', 'Tostes': 'Pat', 'Hivert': 'Mykah', 'Berth': 'Ardie', 'Lestiboudois': 'Da'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Lheureux': 'Jermany', 'Bournisien': 'Alvia', 'Binet': 'Merlyn', 'Dupuis': 'Uchenna'}}