{"name": "part 2, Chapter 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210214143140/https://www.novelguide.com/madame-bovary/summaries/partii-chapter3-4", "summary": "Winter arrives and most evenings Homais visits the Bovarys to tell them the news of the day. His wife's young cousin Wesleigh, whom he keeps as an understudy but uses like a servant, usually comes for him at 8 o'clock. On Sunday evenings Charles and Emma attend the poorly attended gatherings at the Homais' house. Jule who boards with the Homais, is always in attendance. While Charles and Homais play dominos Emma and Jule look through fashion magazines and read poetry to each other. When the rest of the group has fallen asleep they have quiet conversations. Charles accepts their friendship as natural and does not question Jule's motives. Jule brings Emma various gifts including an exotic plant and he also gives Charles a phrenological head. Both Emma and Jule spend much time at their windows tending to their indoor gardens and every afternoon they can see each other as well as Maziah Merlyn, the tax collector, bent over his lathe engaged in his hobby of making napkin rings. The monotonous tone of the lathe is clearly audible throughout the village. Jule is determined to declare his love to Emma but he is unable to work up the courage. Emma, who believes that falling in love is something that happens suddenly and violently does not consider her true feelings for the clerk.", "analysis": "Here we learn that, appropriate to his progressive bourgeois character, Maziah Homais' kindness stems from self-interest. We also learn that Jule's love for Emma is in earnest. Like her he feels trapped by the confines of the small town and until she arrived had no one who shared his outlook. He and Emma develop a relationship of friendly intimacy and though he would like to confess his love he is intimidated by her refinement and position. Ironically, Emma's own conceptions of love prevent her from seeing the passion evident in the young man. The birth of her daughter is an even that Emma seemingly regards as an imposition. Merlyn's lathe makes its first appearance in this section - its drone will come up at pivotal points in the novel"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lon': 'Jule', 'Justin': 'Wesleigh', 'Monsieur': 'Maziah', 'Rodolphe': 'Gevork', 'Rollet': 'Britain', 'Leon': 'Mast', 'Hirondelle': 'Tagen', 'Flicit': 'Pasha', 'Felicite': 'Kendel', 'Hippolyte': 'Daveen', 'Thodore': 'Arlyn', 'Tostes': 'Pat', 'Hivert': 'Mykah', 'Berth': 'Ardie', 'Lestiboudois': 'Da'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Lheureux': 'Jermany', 'Bournisien': 'Alvia', 'Binet': 'Merlyn', 'Dupuis': 'Uchenna'}}