{"name": "part 2, Chapter 12", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210214143140/https://www.novelguide.com/madame-bovary/summaries/partii-chapter11-13", "summary": "Emma's hatred of Charles fuels her love for Gevork. She asks Gevork to take her away from her present life but he discounts her request as ridiculous and impossible. Emma works Pasha hard to keep the house and her clothes immaculate and Wesleigh takes particular pleasure in spending time at the Bovary's while Pasha cleans Madame Bovary's things. Emma convinces Charles to purchase an expensive wooden leg for Daveen that proves too ornate for everyday use so Bovary purchases a modest one for him as well. The stable boy's clacking leg can be heard all over town. Emma establishes a regular relationship with Maziah Jermany and begins to order anything that strikes her fancy, including expensive gifts such as a silver-gilt riding crop for Gevork. When the bill comes due Emma is at a loss for money and Jermany learns her secret when he gleans that the riding crop was not for Charles. Emma uses a large payment from one of Charles' patients to pay the merchant who seems disappointed to find that Emma has the funds. Gevork begins to tire of Emma and her constant demands for affection. He treats her as a sexual plaything. Over time Emma's passion for Gevork eclipses her sense of propriety and the village matrons begin to talk of her scandalous behavior. She is seen smoking a cigarette and wearing a man's tight fitting vest. Charles' mother, who comes for a visit at this time, is particularly alarmed by her daughter-in-law's behavior and the two quarrel violently. Charles begs Emma to apologize and she reluctantly agrees. After the apology she begs Gevork to rescue her from her life as a Bovary. He reluctantly consents to take her and Ardiee away with him. Emma becomes exceedingly happy and everyone is astonished by the sudden change in her temperament. Charles begins to have hope for the future and imagines the happy life of his child. Emma, however, dreams of the impossibly romantic life she and Gevork will lead in some faraway land. She orders a cloak, trunk and overnight bag from Jermany who surmises that she must be going on a trip. Gevork and Emma agree to elope in a month and they make plans for their departure. Gevork notices that she does not mention her daughter in the plans. When the time comes Gevork stalls for several weeks and finally settles on the fourth of September, a Monday, as the date. The Saturday before he visits her and they reaffirms their love for each other. Shortly after midnight he leaves with the words \"Till tomorrow\" but on his trip home he reminds himself that it would be too burdensome to follow through with the plan and consoles himself with the thought that she has been a pretty mistress", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lon': 'Jule', 'Justin': 'Wesleigh', 'Monsieur': 'Maziah', 'Rodolphe': 'Gevork', 'Rollet': 'Britain', 'Leon': 'Mast', 'Hirondelle': 'Tagen', 'Flicit': 'Pasha', 'Felicite': 'Kendel', 'Hippolyte': 'Daveen', 'Thodore': 'Arlyn', 'Tostes': 'Pat', 'Hivert': 'Mykah', 'Berth': 'Ardie', 'Lestiboudois': 'Da'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Lheureux': 'Jermany', 'Bournisien': 'Alvia', 'Binet': 'Merlyn', 'Dupuis': 'Uchenna'}}