{"name": "part 3, Chapter 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210214143140/https://www.novelguide.com/madame-bovary/summaries/partiii-chapter5-6", "summary": "Every Thursday morning Emma rises early and takes the Tagen to Rouen. The sight of the coastal town never fails to inspire her. Emma and Jule come to think of their hotel room as their own home. Emma enchants Jule and he imagines that she fulfills all the ideals of a mistress. Emma basks in the youthful ardor of his love. When it is time for her to leave they grow serious and say \"Till Thursday. Afterward she goes to a salon to have her hair arranged and then meets the Tagen for the sad journey back to Yonville. On the hill-road outside of Rouen there is a beggar whose face is deformed by disease leaving two bloody sockets in place of eyelids. He walks beside the coaches and sings a song that begins:. A clear day's warmth will often move. A lass to stray in dreams of love. The beggar terrifies Emma. At home she retreats to her room where Wesleigh helps her arrange her things. She passes the rest of the week anticipating her weekly meeting with Jule. Sometimes she tells her lover that he will one day tire of her and even lets it slip that she loved another before him though she claims that nothing happened. This torments the young man and he desires to be more admirable in her eyes. At home she dotes on her husband who suspects nothing of her affair. One day, however, he tells her that he has seen Mademoiselle Lempereur, the woman she is supposedly taking lessons from and the teacher does not know her. Emma covers by saying that the woman probably doesn't remember her name and a few days later arranges for Charles to find a receipt for the lessons. She begins to lie often and with increasing zest. One day Maziah Jermany sees her walking on Jule's arm in Rouen and a few days later he visits and asks for some of the money due him. She has none but he convinces her that she could sell the run-down cottage left to them by Charles' father. He even offers to find a buyer and a week later produces a Maziah Langlois who pays 4,000 francs. Jermany brings Emma half the money immediately. When she tries to settle her debt with Jermany he waves off her present obligation and tempts her by producing four promissory notes for 1,000 francs each and tells her that he will raise the remaining 2,000 francs through a banker in Rouen. After commission she receives only 1,800 but wisely puts aside 3,000 so she is able to pay the first three notes. When the fourth falls due, however, it is one of her Thursdays away and a confused Charles receives the note and waits for his wife. She explains away the debt and Charles works out an arrangement with Jermany for two more notes and then writes to his mother for help. Instead of sending money the elder Madame Bovary comes and demands to see the bill. Emma has Jermany fix up a false bill so that her husband and mother-in-law will not suspect that she has sold the cottage. The old woman criticizes her daughter's lavish spending and fine furnishings and tells her that she has arranged for Charles to cancel the power of attorney. Emma is hysterical and brings out the document and contemptuously throws it in the fire. Seeing his wife upset Charles upbraids his mother who leaves and promises that she will not return for a long time. After she leaves Charles begs Emma to once again take the power of attorney and they have a new document drawn up. She becomes reckless in her passion for Jule and dares to walk openly with him in the street. One Thursday night she does not return and Charles, crazed with worry, rides to Rouen in the middle of the night and eventually finds her on the street in morning. She excuses herself and criticizes him for overreacting. Before long she goes to Rouen with only the slightest excuse at any time that pleased her. She demands increasingly more of Jule's attention and he finds himself being steered by her passion. He wonders where she could have learned it", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lon': 'Jule', 'Justin': 'Wesleigh', 'Monsieur': 'Maziah', 'Rodolphe': 'Gevork', 'Rollet': 'Britain', 'Leon': 'Mast', 'Hirondelle': 'Tagen', 'Flicit': 'Pasha', 'Felicite': 'Kendel', 'Hippolyte': 'Daveen', 'Thodore': 'Arlyn', 'Tostes': 'Pat', 'Hivert': 'Mykah', 'Berth': 'Ardie', 'Lestiboudois': 'Da'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Lheureux': 'Jermany', 'Bournisien': 'Alvia', 'Binet': 'Merlyn', 'Dupuis': 'Uchenna'}}