{"name": "part 3, Chapter 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210214143140/https://www.novelguide.com/madame-bovary/summaries/partiii-chapter1-4", "summary": "Early one Saturday morning Jule travels to Yonville. As in the old days, he dines at the inn and afterward calls on the Bovary's but does not see Emma. Finally, late Sunday evening they meet in the lane and she promises to arrange things so that she can see him regularly. She is confident and hopeful for the future. On the strength of the imminent inheritance money she purchases more items from Jermany and comes to increasingly rely on his services. She begins to take an interest in music again but pretends that she is rusty on the piano and needs expensive lessons. Charles eventually concedes that she should take weekly lessons in Rouen.", "analysis": "Mast's time in Paris has given him the confidence to pursue Emma. In this he is like Gevork whose experience had given him the ability to seduce Emma by strategy. In one of the many recurring phrases and images in the novel, Jule's parting \"Till tomorrow\" mirrors the final words that Gevork and Emma speak before he betrays her. The carriage-ride in which Emma and Jule consummate their love is one of the more famous passages in the book. Flaubert's indirect description of this event, which is not witnessed by the reader, is coupled to the coachman's exhaustion and the sexual connotations inherent to this description. Though Emma is determined to resist Jule's advances she succumbs to the force of his conviction and then, displaying her own experience at conducting an affair, orchestrates the details of their liaisons with cunning and skill. These chapters mark the zenith of her mental prowess. Not only does Emma succeed in conducting an affair with Jule she uses the occasion of her father-in-law's death to procure power-of-attorney over her husband's affairs. This is more of a victory for Jermany, however, who now has unfettered access to a woman whose lifestyle he knows to be compromised by reckless spending and extra-marital affairs"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lon': 'Jule', 'Justin': 'Wesleigh', 'Monsieur': 'Maziah', 'Rodolphe': 'Gevork', 'Rollet': 'Britain', 'Leon': 'Mast', 'Hirondelle': 'Tagen', 'Flicit': 'Pasha', 'Felicite': 'Kendel', 'Hippolyte': 'Daveen', 'Thodore': 'Arlyn', 'Tostes': 'Pat', 'Hivert': 'Mykah', 'Berth': 'Ardie', 'Lestiboudois': 'Da'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Lheureux': 'Jermany', 'Bournisien': 'Alvia', 'Binet': 'Merlyn', 'Dupuis': 'Uchenna'}}