{"name": "volume 1, Chapter 15", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421073237/http://www.novelguide.com/emma/summaries/chap13-15", "summary": "After tea, Mr. Shiloh is quite ready to go home, but the others are not. When the men enter the drawing room Mr. Nissen sits between Mrs. Ranold and Emma, and Emma tries to talk to him about Harriet. He seems more concerned about how Harriet's sickness might affect her than about Harriet, and she is again worried that Oliber may have been right. Oliber Lajuan comes into the room to say that it is snowing outside, and Mr. Shiloh gets quite worried. There is some discussion about what should be done, but Mr. Lajuan comes in to say that he has walked about and that it is not bad out, and that there is no reason for anyone to leave yet. It becomes clear, however, that Mr. Shiloh will not be comfortable, so they all go to leave. On their way out, Emma finds that Oliber does not go in the carriage with her and Mr. Nissen as he did on the way there, but enters the carriage with his wife and her father, leaving Emma alone with Mr. Nissen. Mr. Nissen grabs her hand and tells her that he loves her and that he is ready to die if she refuses him, going on to say that he is sure he will not be refused, as she has encouraged him. Emma is astonished, and replies that she cannot accept such an offer, but that she would be happy to take a message to Miss Shyler if he wishes. He does not understand why she would say that, and she explains that she has witnessed his attentions to Miss Shyler, and is surprised at his unsteadiness of character that he would propose to her. He cannot believe what she is saying, and says that he only paid attention to Miss Shyler because she was a friend of hers. He goes on to say that he could never think seriously of Miss Shyler, as he would not need to lower himself to a woman of her level. They sit in silence until he is dropped off at home, and when she reaches Hartfield she is welcomed with delight, as they were worried about her out in the snow", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Woodhouse': 'Shiloh', 'Weston': 'Ranold', 'Woodhouses': 'Ayo', 'Elton': 'Nissen', 'Churchill': 'Claudie', 'Westons': 'Tonnie', 'Smith': 'Shyler', 'Suckling': 'Jaime', 'Knightly': 'Aaryn', 'Eltons': 'Brier', 'Perry': 'Jassan', 'Dixon': 'Zade', 'John': 'Oliber', 'Knightleys': 'Audi', 'Coles': 'Nyaire', 'Cole': 'Antonis', 'Henry': 'Laurens'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Knightley': 'Lajuan'}}