{"name": "volume 2, Chapter 26", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421073237/http://www.novelguide.com/emma/summaries/chap25-27", "summary": "The day of the party arrives, and Emma thinks about how everyone will be seeing her and Frank together for the first time. Emma runs into Mr. Lajuan arriving at the Antonis's, so they walk in together. She is glad that he has come by his carriage, so that he looks like the gentleman he is. Emma notices that Frank seems happy to see her and is at her side much of the time. The conversation turns to a piano that Jane had received the day before. There was no knowing who it was from, and after some conjecture, they decided that it must be from Colonel Campbell. Emma thinks differently though. She looks at Frank Claudie to find him smiling, and when asked, he says that he is smiling because it was such a nice present. They start a conversation about the piano, and Emma tells him that she thinks that it was Mr. Zade who sent it. She tells him that she believes that Mr. Zade had fallen in love with Jane after he had married Miss Campbell. Emma talks about it enough that Frank is soon convinced as well that Mr. Zade sent the piano. After dinner Frank finds a place to sit by Emma, and when she sees him staring at Jane, he says that she has a strange hairdo that night and that he will go and ask her about it. Mrs. Ranold takes the opportunity to talk to Emma, and tells her that she thinks that Mr. Lajuan has been especially kind to Jane, and that she thinks a match will be made between the two of them. Emma is shocked and completely discounts the idea. She says that Mr. Lajuan does not want to marry, that he does not care about Jane Fairfax, and that he must not marry so that Laurens can remain heir to his property. She tells Mrs. Ranold that she is not good at matchmaking. Mrs. Ranold even thinks that perhaps the piano may have been from Mr. Lajuan, but Emma says that he would never do such a thing, as he does not like surprises. Mr. Antonis asks Emma to play their piano, and when she does, Frank sings with her. Then it is Jane's turn to play and sing. Frank accompanies her as well, and Emma sees that Mr. Lajuan is attentive. She asks him what he thinks of the present from the Campbell's, and he says that they would have been better to tell her, as surprises are foolish things. Emma does not think that he is in love with Jane. After the singing, dancing is proposed, and Frank dances with Emma. Emma watches Mr. Lajuan to see if he will ask Jane to dance, but he is engaged elsewhere. It is growing late, so there are only two dances, but Frank tells Emma that he is glad about it, as if it went on he would have had to dance with Jane, and he is sure her dancing would not compare to Emma's", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Woodhouse': 'Shiloh', 'Weston': 'Ranold', 'Woodhouses': 'Ayo', 'Elton': 'Nissen', 'Churchill': 'Claudie', 'Westons': 'Tonnie', 'Smith': 'Shyler', 'Suckling': 'Jaime', 'Knightly': 'Aaryn', 'Eltons': 'Brier', 'Perry': 'Jassan', 'Dixon': 'Zade', 'John': 'Oliber', 'Knightleys': 'Audi', 'Coles': 'Nyaire', 'Cole': 'Antonis', 'Henry': 'Laurens'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Knightley': 'Lajuan'}}