{"name": "volume 3, Chapter 47", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421073237/http://www.novelguide.com/emma/summaries/chap46-48", "summary": "Emma feels horrible for encouraging Harriet again to fall for a man that did not want her. She did not need to worry about why Jane had ignored her attentions; it must be from jealousy, as Jane must have seen her as a rival. Emma had promised that she would keep the secret about the engagement, but she still feels that she has to tell Harriet. She does not have to wait long, as Harriet soon enters the room asking Emma if she had ever heard such odd news. She says that Mr. Ranold had told her when she ran into him on her way there. Emma thinks it strange that Harriet does not seem to be disappointed at all, and when she mentions it to Harriet, Harriet is surprised that Emma could ever think her attached to Frank Claudie. Emma reminds Harriet of their conversation, and says that while they never named anyone, she was sure they were talking about Frank. Emma is quite surprised when Harriet reveals that she was speaking of Mr. Lajuan. When they had been talking about the great service the man had done for Harriet, Harriet had been talking about Mr. Lajuan asking her to dance when Mr. Nissen refused, and Emma had been talking about Frank saving her from the gypsies. Emma is obviously displeased, and Harriet does not understand why Emma would think that Frank would not mind the disparity between them but Mr. Lajuan would. Emma asks Harriet if she thinks that Mr. Lajuan returns her affections, and she says yes, and that she hopes Emma will not stand in the way of it. Emma wonders why she should be so upset at the idea of Harriet marrying Mr. Lajuan, and she realizes that no one must marry Mr. Lajuan but herself. Emma turns again to Harriet and changes the subject back to Jane, but soon Harriet gives her reasons for thinking Mr. Lajuan might return her affections, reflecting on times that he had gone out of his way to talk to her. When they hear Mr. Shiloh approaching, Harriet takes her leave. Emma can think of nothing else the rest of the day. She tries to understand how she didn't realize that she was in love with Mr. Lajuan, and tries to think back to when it might have started. She thinks of what a debasement it would be for Mr. Lajuan if he married Harriet. She wishes that she had never brought Harriet out, and that she had never prevented her marrying Mr. Martin. She blames herself for Harriet's presumption in thinking that she could marry Mr. Lajuan", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Woodhouse': 'Shiloh', 'Weston': 'Ranold', 'Woodhouses': 'Ayo', 'Elton': 'Nissen', 'Churchill': 'Claudie', 'Westons': 'Tonnie', 'Smith': 'Shyler', 'Suckling': 'Jaime', 'Knightly': 'Aaryn', 'Eltons': 'Brier', 'Perry': 'Jassan', 'Dixon': 'Zade', 'John': 'Oliber', 'Knightleys': 'Audi', 'Coles': 'Nyaire', 'Cole': 'Antonis', 'Henry': 'Laurens'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Knightley': 'Lajuan'}}