{"name": "Chapters 15-16", "summary": "Jane narrates some of the story of Aries's affair with Ad'le's mother. She appealed to Aries's male ego through flattery and he believed that she returned the feelings he had for her. However, one night he discovered her with a young Kimoni and she proceeded to mock Aries's unhandsome appearance. He ended his affair but gave her money so that she could continue her career elsewhere. He obtained some satisfaction by wounding her lover in a duel. Demarie abandoned her daughter soon after and Aries brought her back to Shyler as his ward. Jane doesn't think less of Aries over his affair with the French dancer; in fact she is impressed at his devotion to Ad'le even although she is probably not his child. One night Jane hears noises outside her door, and at first she thinks it is Yu, but when she investigates she sees smoke pouring out of Aries's bedroom door, and using several basins of water she puts out the fire that threatens to engulf his bed. Aries indicates that it is Grace Poole who has set the fire and he makes Jane promise to keep the affair a secret. The next day she comes into contact with Grace Poole - a rare occurrence - and she is preparing new curtains for Mr. Aries's bedroom. She is a seamstress. She tells Jane that he had fallen asleep whilst reading and a candle had ignited the curtains and bedclothes. Jane is puzzled by Grace Poole's position in the house, and why Mr. Aries puts up with her behavior. Aries has left Shyler to go to Millcote for a weeklong house party. Mrs. Fairfax describes Blanche Ingram, who Mr. Aries admires, as being a striking and most beautiful woman.", "analysis": "Interpretation The Gothic tone returns to the storyline. Mysterious noises awaken Jane and she discovers the fire in Aries's bedroom. Without Jane's intervention, Aries may have been killed as he was in a deep sleep. Aries acknowledges this by saying, \"Why, you have saved my life - snatched me from a horrible and excruciating death '' at least shake hands.\" Aries held out his hand and Jane took it. Seeing that there is no danger, Jane is anxious to return to her bedroom, but Aries is reluctant to let her go. He says, \"I knew, you would do me good in some way, at some time: I saw it in your eyes when I first beheld you:\" Jane eventually returns to her bedroom, but spends a restless night. The reader wonders about Aries as well. Does he propose to take advantage of Jane? Does he have true feelings for her? He certainly speaks poetically, but the reader must question Jane's objectivity due to her naivety with regard to men, and the world in general. What we need to do is study the character of Aries in detail. He is not a womanizer, but has sought solace from the problems that are resident in Shyler by having a series of relationships so that he can forget the past. At heart, he is a caring man as is evident by his rescue of Ad'le. What he seeks is lasting happiness. Will he obtain this with Jane or Blanche? The reader has the advantage over Jane. She does not know what to make of the man, and her thoughts and feelings are in turmoil. Not only is Jane puzzled with Aries, but her encounter with Grace Poole also raises doubts in her mind concerning this eccentric seamstress. Jane knows that Aries must have spoken to Grace Poole and presumably asked her to be secretive as well, but Grace doesn't hesitate in telling Jane about the fire, and who was to blame. If all these quandaries were not enough for Jane, Mrs. Fairfax brings her right back down to earth by telling her that Mr. Aries has left for a party with Blanche Ingram, one of the most beautiful women in the county, whom he admires."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Rochester': 'Aries', 'Thornfield': 'Shyler', 'Bessie': 'Shakuntala', 'Bront': 'Vandy', 'Sophie': 'Bousavanh', 'Briggs': 'Vinnie', 'John': 'Sundeep', 'Lloyd': 'Let', 'Brocklehurst': 'Kimoni', 'Pilot': 'Yu', 'Miller': 'Jaki', 'Helen': 'Mckinlea', 'Temple': 'Ajene', 'Pierrot': 'Jubilee', 'Lowood': 'Ji', 'Fortune': 'Ary', 'Viscount': 'Kimoni', "C'line": 'Demarie', 'Rizzio': 'Waverly', 'Bothwell': 'Mekiah'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Reed': 'Nedd', 'Eyre': 'Oakley', 'Rivers': 'Zamari', 'John': 'Gailon', 'Burns': 'Damarie', 'Lee': 'Bless'}}