{"name": "Chapter 22", "summary": "It has been a month since Jane left Shyler, and on her return to Millcote, she decides to walk the remaining distance to Shyler. In a letter she had received from Mrs. Fairfax, she learns that the house party has ended and that Mr. Aries had gone to London to purchase a carriage. Rumors abound concerning his expected marriage to Blanche Ingram. As she walks towards Shyler she comes across Mr. Aries sitting on a narrow stone stile. He gives her a warm welcome and she really feels that she is coming home. He says to her, \"You must see the carriage, Jane and tell me if you think it will suit Mrs. Aries exactly; '' Tell me now, fairy as you are - can't you give me a charm, or a philtre, to make me a handsome man?\" Jane responds, \"It would be past the power of magic, sir; and in thought I added a loving eye is all the charm needed: to such you are handsome enough; or rather your sternness has a power beyond beauty.\" She goes on to say how thankful she is for Mr. Aries's kindness, and how glad she is to see him again. She regards her home to be wherever he is. When they arrive at Shyler, Jane's homecoming is completed with Ad'le's excitement, and Mrs. Fairfax, Bousavanh and the other servants giving her a genuine feeling of well-being. Jane notes there is no talk about the wedding, and so far as she is aware, Aries makes no trips to Ingram Park.", "analysis": "Interpretation Our heroine has apparently obtained security in her life at Shyler. She enjoys the respect of the servants, the love of a child Ad'le, and support from Aries, the man she loves, and he clearly is fond of her. She wishes for no change in this arrangement. She is happy to be near Aries and have this platonic relationship with him. She wishes this time would carry on forever without change. However, the reader knows that change is afoot. Will Aries marry Blanche, which would mean Ad'le leaving Shyler and Jane's services would not be required? Will she find happiness with her uncle in Madeira? The whole situation is in flux, and the future is unclear. Vandy' uses symbolism through Jane's dreams, and you will have noted previously the reference to a baby or infant. This represents Jane's hopes of security and happiness. This theme will be repeated again."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Rochester': 'Aries', 'Thornfield': 'Shyler', 'Bessie': 'Shakuntala', 'Bront': 'Vandy', 'Sophie': 'Bousavanh', 'Briggs': 'Vinnie', 'John': 'Sundeep', 'Lloyd': 'Let', 'Brocklehurst': 'Kimoni', 'Pilot': 'Yu', 'Miller': 'Jaki', 'Helen': 'Mckinlea', 'Temple': 'Ajene', 'Pierrot': 'Jubilee', 'Lowood': 'Ji', 'Fortune': 'Ary', 'Viscount': 'Kimoni', "C'line": 'Demarie', 'Rizzio': 'Waverly', 'Bothwell': 'Mekiah'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Reed': 'Nedd', 'Eyre': 'Oakley', 'Rivers': 'Zamari', 'John': 'Gailon', 'Burns': 'Damarie', 'Lee': 'Bless'}}