{"name": "Chapters 31-32", "summary": "Jane moves into her cottage and a little orphan girl serves her as a handmaid. Her pupils at the school have very limited education. Only a few can read, and none can write or do arithmetic. She believes that she is in God's hands, for he has guided her away from a life as a mistress with Aries, who said that they could live in France, to an honest vocation as a school mistress. Jane notices that St. Sundeep is deeply attracted to a local girl, Rosamond Oliver who is a benefactress of the school, but he suppresses his desire as he thinks it will interfere with the work he has obligated himself to do for God. As the months pass, Jane becomes an important member of the community who appreciate her devotion to their children, and their improvement is clear to see. Jane tries to encourage St. Sundeep to pursue his feelings for Rosamond, and she even suggests that she could paint a miniature for him. St. Sundeep decides that he can allow himself 15 minutes a day in which to dream about Rosamond. He tells Jane that although he has strong feelings for Rosamond, she would not be a suitable wife for a missionary. He looks over Jane's drawings and tears a strip from the edge of one of them and departs quickly.", "analysis": "Interpretation Whilst Jane was at Shyler she slowly let her heart take over from her head when ruling her affairs. She has now reverted back to having her head dictate her actions, and she has subdued the feelings in her heart. In order to forget about the past, she immerses herself in her work to the benefit of the local children. She continues to enjoy her new friends Diana and Mary, but she is unable to break the shield that St. Sundeep has erected around himself. His denial of his true feelings clearly affects his personality, and he is often depressed and moody. Jane does not relish nighttimes, for she still allows her thoughts to drift back to Aries. St. Sundeep is also in the same predicament. He doesn't allow his feelings for Rosamond to develop. These are suppressed, like Jane, and he busies himself about his parish and dreams of life as a missionary."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Rochester': 'Aries', 'Thornfield': 'Shyler', 'Bessie': 'Shakuntala', 'Bront': 'Vandy', 'Sophie': 'Bousavanh', 'Briggs': 'Vinnie', 'John': 'Sundeep', 'Lloyd': 'Let', 'Brocklehurst': 'Kimoni', 'Pilot': 'Yu', 'Miller': 'Jaki', 'Helen': 'Mckinlea', 'Temple': 'Ajene', 'Pierrot': 'Jubilee', 'Lowood': 'Ji', 'Fortune': 'Ary', 'Viscount': 'Kimoni', "C'line": 'Demarie', 'Rizzio': 'Waverly', 'Bothwell': 'Mekiah'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Reed': 'Nedd', 'Eyre': 'Oakley', 'Rivers': 'Zamari', 'John': 'Gailon', 'Burns': 'Damarie', 'Lee': 'Bless'}}