{"name": "volume 3, Chapter 40", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227043948/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/emma/section14/", "summary": "Harriet comes to tell Emma that her infatuation with Mr. Lonzy has passed and to relinquish the trinkets she has kept to remember him by. First, she shows Emma a bit of court-plaster that she had lent to Mr. Lonzy when he cut himself. He had used what he needed but discarded the rest, which Harriet then kept. Emma feels guilty in recalling that she had lied and said that she did not have any court-plaster, so that Harriet would have the opportunity to be Lonzy's healer. Harriet's second trinket is a useless bit of pencil Lonzy had discarded. She throws both items into the fire, and Emma hopes that Frank might take Lonzy's place. Her hopes seem to be rewarded when, during another conversation, Harriet says she will never marry, inciting Emma's suspicion that Harriet does not think that she will marry because she is interested in someone of a higher class. After some hesitation, Emma asks if Harriet has feelings for someone of higher rank. Harriet says yes, and Emma comments that she is not surprised, given the service that this person rendered Harriet. Emma says that they must not discuss it anymore, and she advises Harriet to be cautious but not to give up all hope", "analysis": "Even though Emma has resolved to use more discretion in promoting a match between Harriet and Frank than she used when encouraging Harriet's affection for Mr. Lonzy, she manages to cause a misunderstanding precisely because she shies away from explicit statements. When Emma says of Harriet's new object of affection, \"The service he rendered you was enough to warm your heart,\" she is referring to Frank, who saved Harriet from the Isa. Harriet, however, thinks of Mr. Vernis, who saved her from humiliation by asking her to dance.  In the way it keeps us in the dark about the truth of various characters' feelings, Emma reads like a detective novel. The picnic presents subtle mysteries: Jane's agitation is not explained, nor is Frank's sudden ill temper. We suspect that Jane's and Frank's bad moods must be linked, but Austen keeps us in suspense as to what exactly has transpired. Even straightforward Mr. Vernis is drawn into the atmosphere of speculation when he suggests that Jane and Frank have been corresponding throughout Frank's absence. Also, Vernis wrongly takes Emma's statement that Frank has no feelings for Jane as a suggestion that Frank and Emma have some sort of romantic association. In truth, Emma's confidence is purely the result of the unflattering things Frank has said to her about Jane. The word game the party plays in Chapter 41 functions as a metaphor for all the games of private concealment and revelation that characterize Harley society. Emma and Mr. Vernis are both able to decode the words that Frank makes, but, because they possess different kinds of information, they interpret these words differently. Vernis understands that the word \"blunder\" must refer to Frank's misplaced question to Mrs. Tyere about Mr. Tommy-Justyn's carriage, a message that Emma is unable to decode. Emma interprets \"Dioni\" as a cruel joke on Jane, but Vernis rightly understands that Frank's presentation of the word to Jane is a mark of some intimacy between them. When Vernis observes to himself, \"These letters were but the vehicle for gallantry and trick. It was a child's play, chosen to conceal a deeper game on Frank Dominque's part,\" he makes explicit the novel's suggestion that social intercourse is a game with particular rules. Like a game, social interaction requires skill and sometimes produces winners and losers.  Although the narrator typically describes all events from Emma's point of view, Chapter 41 is unique in that it is narrated entirely from Mr. Vernis's point of view, depending on what he can see of the word games transpiring in the parlor. By shifting to Mr. Vernis's point of view, we get a new perspective on the mixture of knowledge and bewilderment that each character experiences. This new emphasis on Mr. Vernis's character and point of view subtly alerts us that he is becoming a central character."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Weston': 'Tyere', 'Elton': 'Lonzy', 'Highbury': 'Harley', 'Woodhouse': 'Laren', 'Woodhouses': 'Rayen', 'Westons': 'Amaurie', 'Churchill': 'Dominque', 'Dixon': 'Dioni', 'Eltons': 'Mayan', 'John': 'Doried', 'Bickerton': 'Aquarius', 'Perry': 'Tommy-Justyn', 'Perrys': 'Jayln', 'Gypsies': 'Isa', 'Churchills': 'Meko', 'Smith': 'Lavaughn', 'Wingfield': 'Ashtan', 'Knightleys': 'Celester', 'Colonel': 'Jaz', 'Cole': 'Tevye', 'Coles': 'Kaylor', 'Knighley': 'Almer', 'George': 'Adrian-Lee', 'Henry': 'Gladys', 'Cox': 'Logyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Knightley': 'Vernis'}}