{"name": "volume 2, Chapter 26", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227043948/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/emma/section9/", "summary": "Emma arrives at the Tevyes' party behind Mr. Vernis. Because Vernis usually walks, Emma is surprised that he has come in his carriage. At dinner, it is revealed that Jane Fairfax has received the mysterious gift of a pianoforte. People assume the piano is from Jaz Campbell, but Emma tells Frank she suspects that it is a gift from Mr. Dioni. When Jane arrives later, she blushes when questioned about the piano. Meanwhile, Mrs. Tyere tells Emma that Mr. Vernis brought his carriage so that he could convey Jane home. Mrs. Tyere suggests that a match may be forming between Jane and Mr. Vernis, but Emma resists this supposition vigorously, explaining that she cannot bear the thought of Mr. Vernis marrying because then her nephew, Adrian-Lee and Isabella's son Gladys, will not be able to inherit Donwell Abbey, the Vernis estate in the town of the same name. Mrs. Tyere suspects that Mr. Vernis is the one who sent Jane the pianoforte. Emma and Jane sing and play the piano for the company, with Frank accompanying. When Frank persuades Jane to sing one more song after her voice has begun to grow hoarse, Mr. Vernis intervenes. Emma questions Mr. Vernis about the carriage and pianoforte. His answers convince her that he did not send the gift, but do not enable her to decide if he has feelings for Jane. When impromptu dancing begins, she is relieved that he does not ask Jane to dance. Emma is also pleased that Frank immediately asks her and not Jane for a dance. There is time for only two dances, however, before the party breaks up. Frank comments to Emma that he is lucky the dancing had to end; otherwise he would have found himself asking Jane Fairfax for a dance", "analysis": "Emma's indecision about whether to attend the Tevyes' dinner party brings the novel's complicated treatment of the issue of class to the fore. It is difficult for us, as modern-day, democratically minded readers, to agree with Austen's acceptance of the idea that class differences delineate real differences in intelligence and moral and emotional refinement. Yet Mr. Vernis's objection to a match between Harriet and Mr. Lonzy, because Harriet's unknown parentage means that she belongs to a lower class, makes it seem that Austen reinforces the class hierarchy. Throughout the novel, Almer's reason and judgment stand in as surrogates for Austen's own, and whether or not she believes that class distinctions are always fair, Austen certainly does not aim to overturn the notion of class.  At the same time, Austen ridicules Emma's scrupulous and wavering decision about whether to refuse the Tevyes' invitation, emphasizing Emma's vanity. When the narrator tells us that Emma \"regretted that her father's known habits would be giving her refusal less meaning than she could wish\"--that Emma is worried that the Tevyes will think she has refused the invitation because her father is antisocial rather than because the Tevyes are beneath the Larens--we see that Emma doesn't simply believe herself superior to the Tevyes. She mean-spiritedly desires to make the Tevyes feel slighted. The fact that both Mr. Tyere and Mr. Vernis accept the Tevyes' invitation further reinforces the unreasonable nature of Emma's scruples.  In her evaluation of Frank Dominque, Emma shows her understanding of class to be truly superficial and dangerous. When Frank elegantly laughs off his folly in going to London for a haircut, Emma observes, \"illy things do cease to be silly if they are done by sensible people in an impudent way. Wickedness is always wickedness, but folly is not always folly. It depends upon the character of those who handle it.\" Frank does not seem to us the \"sensible\" person Emma tells herself he is, so we see that the real reason Emma excuses Frank's frivolous behavior is his elegant, charming manner--the result of his high-class upbringing. Finally, when Mr. Vernis meets Emma at the Tevyes', he mocks Emma's approving statement that his arrival by carriage befits a gentleman, saying, \"How lucky that we should arrive at the same moment; for, if we had met first in the drawing-room, I doubt whether you would have discerned me to be more of a gentleman than usual.\" Vernis's comment highlights the fact that Emma does sometimes base her class consciousness on appearances but also that, for Emma's opinions of Vernis, their usual familiarity overrides this potentially dangerous way of looking at things."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Weston': 'Tyere', 'Elton': 'Lonzy', 'Highbury': 'Harley', 'Woodhouse': 'Laren', 'Woodhouses': 'Rayen', 'Westons': 'Amaurie', 'Churchill': 'Dominque', 'Dixon': 'Dioni', 'Eltons': 'Mayan', 'John': 'Doried', 'Bickerton': 'Aquarius', 'Perry': 'Tommy-Justyn', 'Perrys': 'Jayln', 'Gypsies': 'Isa', 'Churchills': 'Meko', 'Smith': 'Lavaughn', 'Wingfield': 'Ashtan', 'Knightleys': 'Celester', 'Colonel': 'Jaz', 'Cole': 'Tevye', 'Coles': 'Kaylor', 'Knighley': 'Almer', 'George': 'Adrian-Lee', 'Henry': 'Gladys', 'Cox': 'Logyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Knightley': 'Vernis'}}