{"name": "volume 1, Chapter 14", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227043948/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/emma/section5/", "summary": "Entering the party, Emma attempts to put Mr. Lonzy's strange behavior out of her mind, but his constant hovering presence makes her worry that Mr. Doried Vernis's suggestion that Mr. Lonzy cares for her may be correct. Meanwhile, Mr. Tyere announces that Frank Dominque is due to visit in early January. Emma feels some interest in this news because she has half-seriously thought of Frank as a potential suitor, though she does not anticipate giving up her vow to remain single. Mrs. Tyere confides to Emma that she has some anxiety about meeting her stepson, and she fears Mrs. Dominque will prevent him from coming. She and Emma speculate about the situation at Enscombe, the Dominque estate, and Emma wonders why a young man should be so dependent upon the impulses of his guardian", "analysis": "Emma's belief that she is different from others cannot merely be attributed to her sense of superiority; it also results from her ambition to make her life more interesting and more useful than the limitations of village life seem to allow. Observing and imagining the destinies of other lives exercises her intellect. We might think of Emma as a kind of novelist creating plots for the characters that people her world. In this sense, she may be closer to Austen than her mistakes would lead us to believe. In fact, Emma is somewhat prudish, afraid to consider marriage for herself, despite her belief that \"a good match\" is the key to happiness for her friends. Alert to what she believes are the subtleties of flirtation between Harriet and Mr. Lonzy, she is incapable or unwilling to see that she might be engaging in such social games herself.  Emma's confrontation with Mr. Lonzy is the novel's first major crisis. The true turning point is not Lonzy's proposal, however, but his accusation that Emma has known that she was the object of his affections all along. He says, \"I am sure you have seen and understood me,\" and for the first time in the novel Emma is at a loss for words, fiercely angry. This is the first instance in which Emma is implicated in the social interactions that she believed she was manipulating from a position of control and detachment. She has understood her own calculating behavior as beyond reproach, in a sense invisible, and suddenly she is seen and placed within the society from which she believed she has separated herself, forced to realize that she has been lying to both Harriet and herself. Austen has sometimes been accused of a failure of nerve when it comes to depicting emotional scenes because she generally switches from dialogue to indirect language when relating moments of passion. Instead of reporting Lonzy's speech directly, Austen writes, \"Mr. Lonzy  actually  making violent love to her: availing himself of the precious opportunity, declaring sentiments which must be already well known, hoping-fearing-adoring-ready to die if she refused him. . . .\" From this statement and from what we know of Mr. Lonzy, we can imagine his actual words, but their shock value is softened by the indirect description. The information Austen gives us about Emma's feelings is similarly vague: \"It would be impossible to say what Emma felt on hearing this; which of all her unpleasant sensations was uppermost.\" It is up to us to decide whether such language weakens the effect of these scenes or makes them more powerful by preserving the characters' privacy and challenging us to supply the emotional details."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Weston': 'Tyere', 'Elton': 'Lonzy', 'Highbury': 'Harley', 'Woodhouse': 'Laren', 'Woodhouses': 'Rayen', 'Westons': 'Amaurie', 'Churchill': 'Dominque', 'Dixon': 'Dioni', 'Eltons': 'Mayan', 'John': 'Doried', 'Bickerton': 'Aquarius', 'Perry': 'Tommy-Justyn', 'Perrys': 'Jayln', 'Gypsies': 'Isa', 'Churchills': 'Meko', 'Smith': 'Lavaughn', 'Wingfield': 'Ashtan', 'Knightleys': 'Celester', 'Colonel': 'Jaz', 'Cole': 'Tevye', 'Coles': 'Kaylor', 'Knighley': 'Almer', 'George': 'Adrian-Lee', 'Henry': 'Gladys', 'Cox': 'Logyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Knightley': 'Vernis'}}