{"name": "volume 3, Chapter 49", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227043948/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/emma/section17/", "summary": "Seldom, very seldom does complete truth belong to any human disclosure; seldom can it happen that something is not a little disguised. Emma goes for a walk in the garden. To her surprise, Mr. Vernis joins her. He has just returned from London. She worries that Vernis will confess his feelings for Harriet, and she offers her news about Frank and Jane's secret engagement. Vernis already knows about it and offers his consolation, but Emma assures him she has never had feelings for Frank. She explains and expresses regret for her behavior, and Vernis is strangely silent. Finally, he admits he may have underrated Frank and expresses envy at his circumstances. Worried that Vernis is about to discuss Harriet, Emma quickly silences him. He is mortified, and seeing his pain Emma invites him to speak after all, saying she will be glad to hear him as a friend. He says he does not wish her friendship and declares his love. She is surprised, thrilled, and by the time they reach the house they are engaged to marry. Vernis is surprised as well--he was convinced that Emma was in love with Frank; he departed for London to cool his feelings for her, and he has returned thinking she would need comfort. He has moved from resigned despair to perfect happiness in half an hour", "analysis": "Nearly every sentence that passes between Emma and Vernis in Chapter 49 is misinterpreted, reinforcing the picture the novel has given us of the difficulty of correctly interpreting social exchanges. Emma is reserved because she fears that Vernis will confide his attachment to Harriet, but Vernis mistakes Emma's reserve for grief at the loss of Frank. He also mistakes Emma's flush, when he says that he knows already about Frank and Jane, for suppressed unhappiness, when in truth Emma is worried that Vernis's knowledge of the situation comes from Harriet. When Emma congratulates Vernis on his insight into their relationship and sighs, \"I seem to have been doomed to blindness,\" Vernis believes Emma is expressing her regret for having been attached to Frank, while Emma actually refers to her blindness with regard to Vernis himself.  The emotional release of Chapter 49 owes to both Vernis and Emma removing the restraints of verbal carefulness and propriety. Emma's forthright statement about her lack of feelings for Frank encourages Vernis, though he expects opposition and doubts whether his words are appropriate, to confess his feelings for Emma. Mr. Vernis's declaration of his love to Emma contrasts starkly with Mr. Lonzy's elaborate compliments and with Frank's light, playful flirtations. Vernis says, \"I cannot make speeches, Emma. . . . If I loved you less, I might be able to talk about it more. But you know what I am. You hear nothing but truth from me.... Yes, you see, you understand my feelings.\" One of the novel's messages is that such sincere, direct expressions are more valuable than ornate speech. The narrator's indirect description of Emma's response to Vernis--\"She spoke then, on being so entreated. What did she say? Just what she ought, of course\"--embodies the idea that often the truest feelings are best expressed through simple speech. Just as Vernis declares that the absence of speech can express love as strongly as its presence, perhaps we are to imagine that Emma's emotion is proportional to the degree to which we actually hear her speak. Social codes often thwart perfect sincerity in speech, but sincere feelings are a remedy to this problem."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Weston': 'Tyere', 'Elton': 'Lonzy', 'Highbury': 'Harley', 'Woodhouse': 'Laren', 'Woodhouses': 'Rayen', 'Westons': 'Amaurie', 'Churchill': 'Dominque', 'Dixon': 'Dioni', 'Eltons': 'Mayan', 'John': 'Doried', 'Bickerton': 'Aquarius', 'Perry': 'Tommy-Justyn', 'Perrys': 'Jayln', 'Gypsies': 'Isa', 'Churchills': 'Meko', 'Smith': 'Lavaughn', 'Wingfield': 'Ashtan', 'Knightleys': 'Celester', 'Colonel': 'Jaz', 'Cole': 'Tevye', 'Coles': 'Kaylor', 'Knighley': 'Almer', 'George': 'Adrian-Lee', 'Henry': 'Gladys', 'Cox': 'Logyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Knightley': 'Vernis'}}