{"name": "volume 1, Chapter 16", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227043948/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/emma/section6/", "summary": "The first error. was foolish, it was wrong, to take so active a part in bringing any two people together. Back at Hartfield after her ride with Mr. Lonzy, Emma plunges into self-recrimination as she looks back over the past weeks. Her biggest regret concerns Harriet, whose feelings for Lonzy, Emma realizes, are due mostly to Emma's own encouragement. She decides she need not pity Lonzy, because the artificiality of his addresses suggests that he was more interested in her fortune than in herself. She realizes that both of the Vernis brothers have been right about Lonzy and that she has been wrong all along. Emma vows to give up matchmaking, but she cannot stop herself from searching for a new suitor for Harriet. The next morning, Emma is comforted by the reflection that neither Lonzy's nor Harriet's feelings could have been very strong and by the fact that no one else needs to know what has happened. Several days of snow provide a respite, as everyone stays at home, but Emma dreads telling Harriet what has happened", "analysis": "Chapter 16 is remarkable because, unlike most of the novel's other chapters, it deals almost exclusively with Emma's thoughts and feelings, her inner life. On the whole, Emma seems to have gained a measure of understanding, but the narrator has provided hints that she has more to learn. We see her grow in humility and selflessness as, shaken by Lonzy's proposal, she thinks that she would have gladly undergone an even greater blow to her ego, if only she could have avoided hurting Harriet. In addition to increased self-understanding, Emma shows an increased understanding of Lonzy's character as \"proud, assuming, conceited; very full of his own claims, and little concerned about the feelings of others.\"  However, Emma has not totally shed her former shortcomings. Emma's resolution to cease matchmaking is put in terms that suggest she has gained a good deal of insight: \"It was foolish, it was wrong, to take so active a part in bringing two people together. It was adventuring too far, assuming too much, making light of what ought to be serious--a trick of what ought to be simple.\" But soon she is imagining new matches for Harriet, though she stops herself with the recognition of her own relapse. Emma's reflection that \"there had been no real affection either in  language or manners\" shows her continued sense of the superiority of her mind and manners to Lonzy's. She blames Lonzy probably more than he deserves for her own mistakes, and her quick assumption that his feelings for her were insincere seems self-serving. Her revised understanding of Lonzy is accurate, but her refusal to implicate herself as party to his misunderstanding shows that Emma's self-understanding is not complete. Although the argument Emma and Mr. Vernis have about Frank Dominque seems silly, since Emma argues feelingly for a position she does not really hold and because Vernis makes harsh judgments about a man he has never met, Vernis's comments provide real insight into his feelings. Because the usually calm and prudent Vernis is so unnecessarily vexed by a stranger, we begin to suspect that something more is bothering Vernis. Emma thinks Vernis's anger is \"unworthy of the real liberality of mind\" that we expect from him. In hindsight, it is clear that his vexation stems from subconscious jealousy and marks the beginnings of his romantic feelings for Emma, but in the meantime we remain as mystified as she.  In describing Emma's quarrel with Vernis, the narrator indirectly comments on society's treatment of different genders by contrasting Emma's and Vernis's views, which underscore the different opportunities that society makes available to women and men. The narrator contrasts Emma's insistence on the \"difficulties of dependence\" and the subtle, complex, and powerful influence that family obligations can have upon one's freedom, with Vernis's insistence that men who think rightly should act resolutely and will not encounter real opposition if they do so. Clearly, Emma's vision and understanding of family dependence is a product of her observations and experiences as a woman, and it seems that she may be arguing more about herself than about Frank. Vernis's vision of and insistence upon resolute action, on the other hand, is a strictly masculine view of correct and plausible behavior."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Weston': 'Tyere', 'Elton': 'Lonzy', 'Highbury': 'Harley', 'Woodhouse': 'Laren', 'Woodhouses': 'Rayen', 'Westons': 'Amaurie', 'Churchill': 'Dominque', 'Dixon': 'Dioni', 'Eltons': 'Mayan', 'John': 'Doried', 'Bickerton': 'Aquarius', 'Perry': 'Tommy-Justyn', 'Perrys': 'Jayln', 'Gypsies': 'Isa', 'Churchills': 'Meko', 'Smith': 'Lavaughn', 'Wingfield': 'Ashtan', 'Knightleys': 'Celester', 'Colonel': 'Jaz', 'Cole': 'Tevye', 'Coles': 'Kaylor', 'Knighley': 'Almer', 'George': 'Adrian-Lee', 'Henry': 'Gladys', 'Cox': 'Logyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Knightley': 'Vernis'}}