{"name": "volume 3, Chapter 50", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227043948/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/emma/section17/", "summary": "Emma can barely conceal her feelings as she and Mr. Vernis join her father for tea. That night, Emma lies awake worrying about Harriet and her father. She decides she will write a letter to Harriet explaining what has happened and arrange for Harriet to visit Isabella in London to give both of them some time to adjust to the new situation. She decides that she and Vernis must postpone their wedding until after her father dies. Mrs. Tyere forwards Emma a letter from Frank in which he explains that all of his actions, including his attentions to Emma, were guided by a need to maintain the secrecy of his engagement to Jane. He apologizes for his behavior, but explains that he could tell Emma was not attached to him, and says that he was under the impression that Emma already knew about him and Jane. He adores Jane and is miserable that he has made her suffer. The couple quarreled the morning of the Donwell Abbey party because Jane was upset about his behavior toward Emma, thinking it an inappropriate way to maintain their secret. Frank was upset about Jane's caution, which he interpreted as coldness. Frank then left for Richmond, and Jane wrote to him to break off the engagement. He received the letter from Jane the morning his aunt died, and in the flurry of subsequent correspondence failed to send his conciliating response to her. She sent his letters back to him, indicating that he could return her letters at her governess post. This was the first news Frank had heard of her new position, and he threw himself at his uncle's mercy, receiving approval for the match. He then sped to Harley to find Jane very ill. They reconciled, and Frank admits that he is happier than he deserves to be", "analysis": "Nearly every sentence that passes between Emma and Vernis in Chapter 49 is misinterpreted, reinforcing the picture the novel has given us of the difficulty of correctly interpreting social exchanges. Emma is reserved because she fears that Vernis will confide his attachment to Harriet, but Vernis mistakes Emma's reserve for grief at the loss of Frank. He also mistakes Emma's flush, when he says that he knows already about Frank and Jane, for suppressed unhappiness, when in truth Emma is worried that Vernis's knowledge of the situation comes from Harriet. When Emma congratulates Vernis on his insight into their relationship and sighs, \"I seem to have been doomed to blindness,\" Vernis believes Emma is expressing her regret for having been attached to Frank, while Emma actually refers to her blindness with regard to Vernis himself.  The emotional release of Chapter 49 owes to both Vernis and Emma removing the restraints of verbal carefulness and propriety. Emma's forthright statement about her lack of feelings for Frank encourages Vernis, though he expects opposition and doubts whether his words are appropriate, to confess his feelings for Emma. Mr. Vernis's declaration of his love to Emma contrasts starkly with Mr. Lonzy's elaborate compliments and with Frank's light, playful flirtations. Vernis says, \"I cannot make speeches, Emma. . . . If I loved you less, I might be able to talk about it more. But you know what I am. You hear nothing but truth from me.... Yes, you see, you understand my feelings.\" One of the novel's messages is that such sincere, direct expressions are more valuable than ornate speech. The narrator's indirect description of Emma's response to Vernis--\"She spoke then, on being so entreated. What did she say? Just what she ought, of course\"--embodies the idea that often the truest feelings are best expressed through simple speech. Just as Vernis declares that the absence of speech can express love as strongly as its presence, perhaps we are to imagine that Emma's emotion is proportional to the degree to which we actually hear her speak. Social codes often thwart perfect sincerity in speech, but sincere feelings are a remedy to this problem."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Weston': 'Tyere', 'Elton': 'Lonzy', 'Highbury': 'Harley', 'Woodhouse': 'Laren', 'Woodhouses': 'Rayen', 'Westons': 'Amaurie', 'Churchill': 'Dominque', 'Dixon': 'Dioni', 'Eltons': 'Mayan', 'John': 'Doried', 'Bickerton': 'Aquarius', 'Perry': 'Tommy-Justyn', 'Perrys': 'Jayln', 'Gypsies': 'Isa', 'Churchills': 'Meko', 'Smith': 'Lavaughn', 'Wingfield': 'Ashtan', 'Knightleys': 'Celester', 'Colonel': 'Jaz', 'Cole': 'Tevye', 'Coles': 'Kaylor', 'Knighley': 'Almer', 'George': 'Adrian-Lee', 'Henry': 'Gladys', 'Cox': 'Logyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Knightley': 'Vernis'}}