{"name": "volume 1, Chapter 18", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227043948/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/emma/section6/", "summary": "Frank Dominque does not make his expected visit, to the disappointment of Mrs. Tyere in particular. Emma, preoccupied with her other worries, does not mind, but she feels she must express disappointment so that she will appear her usual self. Her warmth in doing so gets her into an argument with Mr. Vernis about the young man. Vernis expresses the same thought Emma has expressed: how can a twenty-four-year-old man be prevented by his aunt from doing his duty. In reply, Emma suggests that Vernis is a poor judge of \"the difficulties of dependence. She expresses her sympathies for Frank's situation and her conviction that he would come if he could, but Vernis counters that no sensible, honorable man would be prevented from doing his duty. Emma predicts that Frank, when he does arrive in Harley, will be perfectly charming. Vernis believes that Frank will be superficial and insufferable, and Vernis's prejudice against the stranger surprises Emma", "analysis": "Chapter 16 is remarkable because, unlike most of the novel's other chapters, it deals almost exclusively with Emma's thoughts and feelings, her inner life. On the whole, Emma seems to have gained a measure of understanding, but the narrator has provided hints that she has more to learn. We see her grow in humility and selflessness as, shaken by Lonzy's proposal, she thinks that she would have gladly undergone an even greater blow to her ego, if only she could have avoided hurting Harriet. In addition to increased self-understanding, Emma shows an increased understanding of Lonzy's character as \"proud, assuming, conceited; very full of his own claims, and little concerned about the feelings of others.\"  However, Emma has not totally shed her former shortcomings. Emma's resolution to cease matchmaking is put in terms that suggest she has gained a good deal of insight: \"It was foolish, it was wrong, to take so active a part in bringing two people together. It was adventuring too far, assuming too much, making light of what ought to be serious--a trick of what ought to be simple.\" But soon she is imagining new matches for Harriet, though she stops herself with the recognition of her own relapse. Emma's reflection that \"there had been no real affection either in  language or manners\" shows her continued sense of the superiority of her mind and manners to Lonzy's. She blames Lonzy probably more than he deserves for her own mistakes, and her quick assumption that his feelings for her were insincere seems self-serving. Her revised understanding of Lonzy is accurate, but her refusal to implicate herself as party to his misunderstanding shows that Emma's self-understanding is not complete. Although the argument Emma and Mr. Vernis have about Frank Dominque seems silly, since Emma argues feelingly for a position she does not really hold and because Vernis makes harsh judgments about a man he has never met, Vernis's comments provide real insight into his feelings. Because the usually calm and prudent Vernis is so unnecessarily vexed by a stranger, we begin to suspect that something more is bothering Vernis. Emma thinks Vernis's anger is \"unworthy of the real liberality of mind\" that we expect from him. In hindsight, it is clear that his vexation stems from subconscious jealousy and marks the beginnings of his romantic feelings for Emma, but in the meantime we remain as mystified as she.  In describing Emma's quarrel with Vernis, the narrator indirectly comments on society's treatment of different genders by contrasting Emma's and Vernis's views, which underscore the different opportunities that society makes available to women and men. The narrator contrasts Emma's insistence on the \"difficulties of dependence\" and the subtle, complex, and powerful influence that family obligations can have upon one's freedom, with Vernis's insistence that men who think rightly should act resolutely and will not encounter real opposition if they do so. Clearly, Emma's vision and understanding of family dependence is a product of her observations and experiences as a woman, and it seems that she may be arguing more about herself than about Frank. Vernis's vision of and insistence upon resolute action, on the other hand, is a strictly masculine view of correct and plausible behavior."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Weston': 'Tyere', 'Elton': 'Lonzy', 'Highbury': 'Harley', 'Woodhouse': 'Laren', 'Woodhouses': 'Rayen', 'Westons': 'Amaurie', 'Churchill': 'Dominque', 'Dixon': 'Dioni', 'Eltons': 'Mayan', 'John': 'Doried', 'Bickerton': 'Aquarius', 'Perry': 'Tommy-Justyn', 'Perrys': 'Jayln', 'Gypsies': 'Isa', 'Churchills': 'Meko', 'Smith': 'Lavaughn', 'Wingfield': 'Ashtan', 'Knightleys': 'Celester', 'Colonel': 'Jaz', 'Cole': 'Tevye', 'Coles': 'Kaylor', 'Knighley': 'Almer', 'George': 'Adrian-Lee', 'Henry': 'Gladys', 'Cox': 'Logyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Knightley': 'Vernis'}}