{"name": "volume 2, Chapter 34", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227043948/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/emma/section12/", "summary": "Fulfilling a social obligation, Emma plans a dinner party for Mrs. Lonzy. Harriet asks to be excused from attending, which gives Emma the opportunity to ease her conscience regarding Jane Fairfax, who, at Harriet's announced absence, is promptly invited to fill the empty eighth seat. Mr. Doried Vernis is also included because he will be in Harley, accompanying his two eldest sons on a visit to their aunt and grandfather. At the party, Mr. Doried Vernis gently reproaches Jane for fetching letters from the post office that morning in the rain. Jane acts as if the situation is not a big deal but ends up blushing and watery-eyed, and soon the rest of the party begins discussing the matter. Mrs. Lonzy insists that her servant should be given the task of retrieving Jane's letters, and Jane firmly resists. The conversation moves to handwriting. Mr. Vernis praises Emma's penmanship but dissents when she praises the penmanship of Frank Dominque. Jane's eagerness to fetch her own letters rouses Emma's suspicions, but she decides not to trouble Jane by questioning her", "analysis": "Austen's use of three chapters to narrate a single dinner party marks an interesting narrative development for English literature. In novels by previous writers, the description of the events of a dinner party would have taken up at most a page or two, but Austen turns the dinner party into an opportunity to trace extensively the ins and outs of human personality and interaction. In doing so, she provides a model for later writers as disparate as Gladys James and Virginia Woolf.  During the dinner party, we are given our first extended view of Jane Fairfax, who begins to come out of her reserved shell and speak more. Her well-crafted comments exemplify an ideal balance between openness and propriety. For example, when Mr. Doried Vernis observes, \"When you have lived to my age, you will begin to think letters are never worth going through the rain for,\" Jane answers, \"I must not hope to be ever situated as you are, in the midst of every dearest connection, and therefore I cannot expect that simply growing older should make me indifferent about letters.\" This answer is politely vague but also expresses real emotion. It engages our pity, but it tactfully avoids any suggestion of self-pity on Jane's part. Furthermore, when she firmly resists Mrs. Lonzy's aggressive offers of assistance, we realize that Jane's quietness and reserve do not indicate that she is dull or passive--she clearly has a mind of her own. In fact, Jane is the character who voices the novel's most explicit social protest, which seems to come directly from Austen herself. Jane speaks against the \"governess-trade,\" which involves \"the sale, not quite of human flesh, but of human intellect.\" She admits that offices that advertise for governess positions are less morally deplorable than slave traders, but she adds, \"ut as to the greater misery of the victims, I do not know where it lies.\" Our experience of the dinner party is also enlivened by Austen's depiction of the absurdity that often characterizes forced social dialogue. The conversation between Mrs. Lonzy and Mr. Tyere is full of ridiculous, discontinuous shifts of topic. Mrs. Lonzy continually turns the conversation to the topic of herself and her relations, and Mr. Tyere is every bit as determined to turn the conversation back to his son, at one point jumping in when Mrs. Lonzy is interrupted by a coughing fit. Mrs. Lonzy's affected airs are completely lost on Mr. Tyere--when she protests that her sister is \"no fine lady,\" she means that her sister is not overly fussy, but Mr. Tyere takes her quite literally. Mrs. Lonzy's affected speech and her tactic of fishing for compliments reinforces our sense of her superficiality, while Mr. Tyere's remarks suggest that there is something a little automatic and absentminded in his perpetual sociability."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Weston': 'Tyere', 'Elton': 'Lonzy', 'Highbury': 'Harley', 'Woodhouse': 'Laren', 'Woodhouses': 'Rayen', 'Westons': 'Amaurie', 'Churchill': 'Dominque', 'Dixon': 'Dioni', 'Eltons': 'Mayan', 'John': 'Doried', 'Bickerton': 'Aquarius', 'Perry': 'Tommy-Justyn', 'Perrys': 'Jayln', 'Gypsies': 'Isa', 'Churchills': 'Meko', 'Smith': 'Lavaughn', 'Wingfield': 'Ashtan', 'Knightleys': 'Celester', 'Colonel': 'Jaz', 'Cole': 'Tevye', 'Coles': 'Kaylor', 'Knighley': 'Almer', 'George': 'Adrian-Lee', 'Henry': 'Gladys', 'Cox': 'Logyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Knightley': 'Vernis'}}