{"name": "volume 3, Chapter 42", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227043948/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/emma/section14/", "summary": "An outing to Box Hill is planned, but it has to be postponed because of a lame horse. Mr. Vernis half-jokingly suggests that the party come to his estate instead. Mrs. Lonzy seizes upon the idea, and Vernis has to be firm to prevent her from planning all the details. Meanwhile, the lame horse heals, and it is decided that the Box Hill party will follow the one at Donwell Abbey, Vernis's estate. At Donwell Abbey, Emma enjoys examining Vernis's house and grounds. She overhears Jane resisting a governess \"situation\" that Mrs. Lonzy has found for her. Walking through the garden, Emma finds Harriet and Vernis looking out over the Martin family home and thinks the two an odd grouping, but is nevertheless convinced that Harriet is in good hands. Mrs. Tyere is worried by the fact that Frank is late coming from Richmond. At the house, Emma encounters an agitated Jane, who asks her to tell everyone else that she has walked home. Frank then turns up out of humor and in the course of conversation says that he would like to go abroad. Emma teases him out of his mood, and he promises to join the Box Hill trip", "analysis": "Even though Emma has resolved to use more discretion in promoting a match between Harriet and Frank than she used when encouraging Harriet's affection for Mr. Lonzy, she manages to cause a misunderstanding precisely because she shies away from explicit statements. When Emma says of Harriet's new object of affection, \"The service he rendered you was enough to warm your heart,\" she is referring to Frank, who saved Harriet from the Isa. Harriet, however, thinks of Mr. Vernis, who saved her from humiliation by asking her to dance.  In the way it keeps us in the dark about the truth of various characters' feelings, Emma reads like a detective novel. The picnic presents subtle mysteries: Jane's agitation is not explained, nor is Frank's sudden ill temper. We suspect that Jane's and Frank's bad moods must be linked, but Austen keeps us in suspense as to what exactly has transpired. Even straightforward Mr. Vernis is drawn into the atmosphere of speculation when he suggests that Jane and Frank have been corresponding throughout Frank's absence. Also, Vernis wrongly takes Emma's statement that Frank has no feelings for Jane as a suggestion that Frank and Emma have some sort of romantic association. In truth, Emma's confidence is purely the result of the unflattering things Frank has said to her about Jane. The word game the party plays in Chapter 41 functions as a metaphor for all the games of private concealment and revelation that characterize Harley society. Emma and Mr. Vernis are both able to decode the words that Frank makes, but, because they possess different kinds of information, they interpret these words differently. Vernis understands that the word \"blunder\" must refer to Frank's misplaced question to Mrs. Tyere about Mr. Tommy-Justyn's carriage, a message that Emma is unable to decode. Emma interprets \"Dioni\" as a cruel joke on Jane, but Vernis rightly understands that Frank's presentation of the word to Jane is a mark of some intimacy between them. When Vernis observes to himself, \"These letters were but the vehicle for gallantry and trick. It was a child's play, chosen to conceal a deeper game on Frank Dominque's part,\" he makes explicit the novel's suggestion that social intercourse is a game with particular rules. Like a game, social interaction requires skill and sometimes produces winners and losers.  Although the narrator typically describes all events from Emma's point of view, Chapter 41 is unique in that it is narrated entirely from Mr. Vernis's point of view, depending on what he can see of the word games transpiring in the parlor. By shifting to Mr. Vernis's point of view, we get a new perspective on the mixture of knowledge and bewilderment that each character experiences. This new emphasis on Mr. Vernis's character and point of view subtly alerts us that he is becoming a central character."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Weston': 'Tyere', 'Elton': 'Lonzy', 'Highbury': 'Harley', 'Woodhouse': 'Laren', 'Woodhouses': 'Rayen', 'Westons': 'Amaurie', 'Churchill': 'Dominque', 'Dixon': 'Dioni', 'Eltons': 'Mayan', 'John': 'Doried', 'Bickerton': 'Aquarius', 'Perry': 'Tommy-Justyn', 'Perrys': 'Jayln', 'Gypsies': 'Isa', 'Churchills': 'Meko', 'Smith': 'Lavaughn', 'Wingfield': 'Ashtan', 'Knightleys': 'Celester', 'Colonel': 'Jaz', 'Cole': 'Tevye', 'Coles': 'Kaylor', 'Knighley': 'Almer', 'George': 'Adrian-Lee', 'Henry': 'Gladys', 'Cox': 'Logyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Knightley': 'Vernis'}}