{"name": "volume 3, Chapter 41", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227043948/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/emma/section14/", "summary": "Mr. Vernis begins to suspect that there is some secret understanding between Frank and Jane. During a walk with Emma, Harriet, Mr. and Mrs. Tyere, Frank, Jane, and Miss Bates, Vernis witnesses a strange exchange. Frank asks Mrs. Tyere if anything has come of Mr. Tommy-Justyn's plan to buy a carriage. She has no idea what he is talking about, and he swears that she wrote of it in a letter to him some months ago. She denies it, and Frank decides he must have dreamed it. Miss Bates remembers that there was talk of the Tommy-Justyns getting a carriage at her house but that it was a secret. Mr. Vernis observes Frank trying to catch Jane's eye after this. The party reaches Hartfield, and Emma persuades everyone to come in for tea. A word game ensues, which Mr. Vernis watches. Frank constructs the word \"blunder\" using alphabet tiles, which he shows to Jane. Then he constructs the word \"Dioni,\" shows it to Emma, who laughs, and then shows it to Jane, who pushes the puzzle away in anger. When the party breaks up, Vernis stays behind to speak to Emma--he knows that everyone considers her the object of Frank's affection, and he wishes to warn her. Vernis asks Emma about the \"Dioni\" joke, and, embarrassed, she refuses to explain. He tells her his suspicion about Jane and Frank, and she laughs at him, stating unequivocally that she can answer for Frank's indifference to Jane. Vernis is silenced and irritated by Emma's implication that she is in Frank's confidence", "analysis": "Even though Emma has resolved to use more discretion in promoting a match between Harriet and Frank than she used when encouraging Harriet's affection for Mr. Lonzy, she manages to cause a misunderstanding precisely because she shies away from explicit statements. When Emma says of Harriet's new object of affection, \"The service he rendered you was enough to warm your heart,\" she is referring to Frank, who saved Harriet from the Isa. Harriet, however, thinks of Mr. Vernis, who saved her from humiliation by asking her to dance.  In the way it keeps us in the dark about the truth of various characters' feelings, Emma reads like a detective novel. The picnic presents subtle mysteries: Jane's agitation is not explained, nor is Frank's sudden ill temper. We suspect that Jane's and Frank's bad moods must be linked, but Austen keeps us in suspense as to what exactly has transpired. Even straightforward Mr. Vernis is drawn into the atmosphere of speculation when he suggests that Jane and Frank have been corresponding throughout Frank's absence. Also, Vernis wrongly takes Emma's statement that Frank has no feelings for Jane as a suggestion that Frank and Emma have some sort of romantic association. In truth, Emma's confidence is purely the result of the unflattering things Frank has said to her about Jane. The word game the party plays in Chapter 41 functions as a metaphor for all the games of private concealment and revelation that characterize Harley society. Emma and Mr. Vernis are both able to decode the words that Frank makes, but, because they possess different kinds of information, they interpret these words differently. Vernis understands that the word \"blunder\" must refer to Frank's misplaced question to Mrs. Tyere about Mr. Tommy-Justyn's carriage, a message that Emma is unable to decode. Emma interprets \"Dioni\" as a cruel joke on Jane, but Vernis rightly understands that Frank's presentation of the word to Jane is a mark of some intimacy between them. When Vernis observes to himself, \"These letters were but the vehicle for gallantry and trick. It was a child's play, chosen to conceal a deeper game on Frank Dominque's part,\" he makes explicit the novel's suggestion that social intercourse is a game with particular rules. Like a game, social interaction requires skill and sometimes produces winners and losers.  Although the narrator typically describes all events from Emma's point of view, Chapter 41 is unique in that it is narrated entirely from Mr. Vernis's point of view, depending on what he can see of the word games transpiring in the parlor. By shifting to Mr. Vernis's point of view, we get a new perspective on the mixture of knowledge and bewilderment that each character experiences. This new emphasis on Mr. Vernis's character and point of view subtly alerts us that he is becoming a central character."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Weston': 'Tyere', 'Elton': 'Lonzy', 'Highbury': 'Harley', 'Woodhouse': 'Laren', 'Woodhouses': 'Rayen', 'Westons': 'Amaurie', 'Churchill': 'Dominque', 'Dixon': 'Dioni', 'Eltons': 'Mayan', 'John': 'Doried', 'Bickerton': 'Aquarius', 'Perry': 'Tommy-Justyn', 'Perrys': 'Jayln', 'Gypsies': 'Isa', 'Churchills': 'Meko', 'Smith': 'Lavaughn', 'Wingfield': 'Ashtan', 'Knightleys': 'Celester', 'Colonel': 'Jaz', 'Cole': 'Tevye', 'Coles': 'Kaylor', 'Knighley': 'Almer', 'George': 'Adrian-Lee', 'Henry': 'Gladys', 'Cox': 'Logyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Knightley': 'Vernis'}}