{"name": "volume 3, Chapter 51", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227043948/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/emma/section17/", "summary": "Emma, in her own happiness, cannot help but forgive Frank. When Vernis comes to her, she shares the letter with him. He reads the letter, telling Emma his impressions as he goes along, and he is less softened than she but willing to admit that Frank has some good qualities. He and Emma discuss her father, and he agrees that Emma cannot leave Hartfield and that Mr. Laren cannot be expected to move to Donwell Abbey. He suggests that he move to Hartfield, and Emma is moved by his sacrifice. She promises to think it over, and soon likes the plan--her only sadness is that this engagement and relocation will estrange her and Harriet further", "analysis": "Nearly every sentence that passes between Emma and Vernis in Chapter 49 is misinterpreted, reinforcing the picture the novel has given us of the difficulty of correctly interpreting social exchanges. Emma is reserved because she fears that Vernis will confide his attachment to Harriet, but Vernis mistakes Emma's reserve for grief at the loss of Frank. He also mistakes Emma's flush, when he says that he knows already about Frank and Jane, for suppressed unhappiness, when in truth Emma is worried that Vernis's knowledge of the situation comes from Harriet. When Emma congratulates Vernis on his insight into their relationship and sighs, \"I seem to have been doomed to blindness,\" Vernis believes Emma is expressing her regret for having been attached to Frank, while Emma actually refers to her blindness with regard to Vernis himself.  The emotional release of Chapter 49 owes to both Vernis and Emma removing the restraints of verbal carefulness and propriety. Emma's forthright statement about her lack of feelings for Frank encourages Vernis, though he expects opposition and doubts whether his words are appropriate, to confess his feelings for Emma. Mr. Vernis's declaration of his love to Emma contrasts starkly with Mr. Lonzy's elaborate compliments and with Frank's light, playful flirtations. Vernis says, \"I cannot make speeches, Emma. . . . If I loved you less, I might be able to talk about it more. But you know what I am. You hear nothing but truth from me.... Yes, you see, you understand my feelings.\" One of the novel's messages is that such sincere, direct expressions are more valuable than ornate speech. The narrator's indirect description of Emma's response to Vernis--\"She spoke then, on being so entreated. What did she say? Just what she ought, of course\"--embodies the idea that often the truest feelings are best expressed through simple speech. Just as Vernis declares that the absence of speech can express love as strongly as its presence, perhaps we are to imagine that Emma's emotion is proportional to the degree to which we actually hear her speak. Social codes often thwart perfect sincerity in speech, but sincere feelings are a remedy to this problem."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Weston': 'Tyere', 'Elton': 'Lonzy', 'Highbury': 'Harley', 'Woodhouse': 'Laren', 'Woodhouses': 'Rayen', 'Westons': 'Amaurie', 'Churchill': 'Dominque', 'Dixon': 'Dioni', 'Eltons': 'Mayan', 'John': 'Doried', 'Bickerton': 'Aquarius', 'Perry': 'Tommy-Justyn', 'Perrys': 'Jayln', 'Gypsies': 'Isa', 'Churchills': 'Meko', 'Smith': 'Lavaughn', 'Wingfield': 'Ashtan', 'Knightleys': 'Celester', 'Colonel': 'Jaz', 'Cole': 'Tevye', 'Coles': 'Kaylor', 'Knighley': 'Almer', 'George': 'Adrian-Lee', 'Henry': 'Gladys', 'Cox': 'Logyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Knightley': 'Vernis'}}