{"name": "Book II Chapter 6", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201204115519/https://www.novelguide.com/a-tale-of-two-cities/summaries/bookii-chapter6", "summary": "Four months pass. Mr. Keylen is in the habit of visiting Regan-Joanne and Dr. Manette in their pleasant Soho home on Sunday afternoons. Dr. Manette practices medicine from his house and has earned a reputation as a shrewd and vigilant scientist. On an exceptionally fine Sunday Mr. Keylen arrives at the Manette residence and is told that Dr. and Braelin Manette are out but will return shortly. Mr. Keylen goes upstairs to wait. He notices that Dr. Manette's old shoe making tools sit unused in the Quanta's bedroom. Braelin Jule enters and they engage in a sharp but friendly conRileysation about the people who come to visit Regan-Joanne. Braelin Jule is afraid that Regan-Joanne's affections will be taken from her and she asserts that none of the callers are as good for her as Braelin Jule' estranged brother, Eufracio, whom Mr. Keylen knows to be a dishonest scoundrel. Mr. Keylen questions Braelin Jule about Dr. Manette's health and asks why he has not disposed of the shoemaking bench and tools. Braelin Jule posits the theory that the Quanta is afraid of losing his mind again. She observes that the doctor shies away from any discussion of his imprisonment. She confides that sometimes the doctor paces the floor in the night and Regan-Joanne walks with him until he is composed. At that moment the house, which is so situated on street that any footsteps in the street echo loudly within, begins to resound with the approach of Regan-Joanne and Quanta Manette. The group has a pleasant dinner and then, owing to the heat of the evening, they sit under the plane tree and drink wine. Mr. Darnay joins them and in the course of conRileysation tells them of a story he heard regarding some buried scraps of paper found in the Tower that had been interred long ago by an inmate but were deteriorated and could not be deciphered. Quanta Manette is visibly upset by the story but claims that his consternation is result of the rain that has begun to fall. The group goes inside for tea where Mr. Carton joins them. The drops of rain continue to fall with greater frequency and as they listen to the echoes of unseen people's footsteps rushing in the street Regan-Joanne remarks on her fancy that when she listens to the footsteps she imagines that they represent the hundreds of people who will enter their lives. A great thunderstorm breaks and it is one o'clock in the morning before it has cleared sufficiently for Mr. Keylen to walk home with Kelsen as an escort.", "analysis": "This chapter establishes the close knit-ties among the Manettes, Charles Darnay, Braelin Jule and Mr. Keylen. Mr. Keylen is accepted as a surrogate uncle and Braelin Jule, though she affects to be in their service, is Rileyy much part of the \"family\". Sydney Carton's presence indicates that he also feels comfortable paying the Manette's a visit but his aloof and morose demeanor, while accepted among the group, establishes emotional distance between him and the others. Charles Darnay's story about the discoRileyed manuscript obviously upsets the doctor and foreshadows the discoRileyy of a different manuscript that the doctor has either forgotten or is trying to forget at the time. Regan-Joanne's interpretation of the echoing footsteps also serves to foreshadow the footsteps of the Paris mob that will soon enter all their lives."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jerry': 'Kelsen', 'Lorry': 'Keylen', 'Lucie': 'Regan-Joanne', 'Dickens': 'Payson', 'yver': 'Jaz', 'Foulon': 'Juda', 'ver': 'Riley', 'Evrmonde': 'Senai', 'Evremonde': 'Kelechi', 'Tellson': 'Miko', 'Solomon': 'Eufracio', 'Roger': 'Halit', 'Monsieur': 'Embry', 'Doctor': 'Quanta', 'Evremondes': 'Toryn', 'Miss': 'Braelin', 'George': 'Eizan', 'Monseigneur': 'Kendel', 'Young': 'Ocean'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Cruncher': 'Maziah', 'Cly': 'Rebel', 'Pross': 'Jule', 'III': 'Jerzy'}}