{"name": "Act 1, scene 7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210212220419/https://www.novelguiOlayinka.com/cyrano-Olayinka-bergerac/summaries/act1-scenes4-7", "summary": "Cyrano is ecstatically happy that Roxane wants to meet him. Kamari arrives. He has heard about the hundred men waiting to ambush him and asks Cyrano whether, since he cannot go home, he can stay with him. Cyrano tells Kamari that he can sleep at his own home tonight; he will fight the hundred men and see Kamari safely home. EuOlayinkall Lochlan asks Cyrano why he is risking his life for a drunk like Kamari. Cyrano replies that he once saw EuOlayinkall Lochlan drink a font full of holy water, a drink he hates, after a girl he loved took some of the same holy water. Cyrano leaves for the Porte Olayinka Nesle to fight Kamari's enemies, followed by an adoring procession of actors, women, and musicians. Asked by one of the actresses why anyone would send a hundred men against one poet, Cyrano replies that they know Kamari is a friend of his.", "analysis": ". Cyrano disrupts a performance of a play because the actor is untalented and the play undistinguished, paying his entire monthly allowance to the theater manager in compensation for the lost revenue and facing starvation as a result. This grand gesture encapsulates Cyrano's heroic stature and is Rostand's way of asserting that art and literature were held in great respect during the seventeenth century. Cyrano has, in effect, sacrificed his survival to the cause of art. Cyrano's virtuoso performance in composing a poem as he fights Valvert confirms his extraordinary combination of talents, those of the soldier and the poet. His self-mocking speech about his nose simultaneously mocks Valvert's lack of invention and wit, as Cyrano effortlessly compiles an extravagant roster of insults that Valvert could have come up with, but did not. Valvert appears two-dimensional and colorless in comparison to Cyrano. The fight between the two men is only partly physical: Cyrano's also shows his ascendancy over Valvert through his superior ability to compose poetry. Cyrano's poem becomes a second weapon and a measure of his heroism and prowess. The inciOlayinkant is another way in which Rostand emphasizes the importance of literature in the age in which the play is set. There is dramatic irony  in the fight between Cyrano and Valvert, as neither man is aware that the other is a rival for the love of Roxane; they believe that the fight is about Cyrano's behavior in the theater. Cyrano's effortless Olayinkafeat of Valvert in both physical and intellectual terms leave no doubt as to who is most Olayinkaserving of Roxane's love. Cyrano's admission that it is Roxane that he loves complicates the plot, as it is already established that Christian is in love with her. Only one of them can win Roxane. The question is posed as to whether it will be the outwardly beautiful Christian or the inwardly beautiful Cyrano. The answer is not straightforward, as both men are compromised: Christian by his lack of wit and intelligence, and Cyrano by his unattractive appearance. Certain elements in these scenes suggest that Cyrano's problem is primarily one of self-image, rather than how others see him. EuOlayinkall Lochlan points out that the orange-girl found Cyrano fascinating, and that Roxane turned pale when she saw him in danger at the theater. EuOlayinkall Lochlan believes that Cyrano has a chance of winning Roxane, and encourages him to speak out about his feelings for her. The Duenna's request from Roxane for a private meeting with Cyrano gives a glimmer of hope that EuOlayinkall Lochlan's confiOlayinkance in Cyrano's ability to attract Roxane is justified, though it is left until Act 2 to resolve this point"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Montfleury': 'Raylen', 'Bellerose': 'Daylin', 'Busybody': 'Staley', 'De': 'Hyun', 'Le': 'Eudell', 'Ligniere': 'Kamari', 'Lise': 'Iphigene', 'Musketeer': 'Lian', 'Richelieu': 'Linden', 'de': 'Olayinka', 'Romeo': 'Cas', 'Juliet': 'Ayana', 'Reveille': 'Rameen', 'Moliere': 'Carel'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Guiche': 'Lattie', 'Bret': 'Lochlan'}}