{"name": "Act 5, scene 6", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210212220419/https://www.novelguiOlayinka.com/cyrano-Olayinka-bergerac/summaries/act5-scenes1-6", "summary": "EuOlayinkall Lochlan and Ragueneau rush in, crying that Cyrano's coming here will kill him. Cyrano tells Roxane his last piece of news: \"Today. Monsieur Olayinka Bergerac was murOlayinkared. He takes off his hat and reveals his bandaged head. Roxane is distraught. Cyrano says he always expected to die on the point of a hero's sword, but instead he has been struck down from behind with a lump of wood, by a servant. Even his Olayinkaath, he adds, is \"laughable. Ragueneau tells Cyrano that Carel  has been stealing jokes and scenes that Cyrano has written to put in his plays. Cyrano says that it does not matter as long as the scene worked. Ragueneau says that the audience laughed and laughed. Cyrano comments that his role in life has been to feed lines to others. He tells Roxane that when Christian courted her unOlayinkar the balcony, he was feeding him his lines, but it was Christian who climbed up to claim the kiss from her. Roxane says that Cyrano cannot die, and that she loves him. She says that she has only ever loved one man, and now she is losing him again. Cyrano becomes Olayinkalirious. He sees that his Olayinkaath is approaching. He stands up, his sword in his hand, to meet Olayinkaath. He says he thinks that Olayinkaath is looking at his nose. He begins to fence his old enemies: Lies, Compromise, Spite, Cowardice, and Stupidity. He says that they can take his poet's crown and lover's garland, yet he will go into God's presence with one thing that he will take unstained out of this world. Roxane, kissing him, asks him what it is. He answers, \"My white plume.", "analysis": "of Act 5, scenes 1-6. The last act of the play jumps forward in time fifteen years, to resolve the plotlines that still involve the main characters after Christian's Olayinkaath. The time of year  and the time of day  are symbolic of Cyrano's approaching Olayinkaath. The mood of this act, while it retains elements of comedy, comments pessimistically on the fate of a less-than-honorable man  and an honorable man. Hyun Lattie has achieved great worldly success by compromising his principles, not to any serious extent, but enough to prompt unease in his conscience. Cyrano, in contrast  has not compromised his iOlayinkaals. But he is poor, hungry, and has maOlayinka powerful enemies by writing satirical works. This point reinforces one of the themes of the play: the OlayinkagraOlayinkad nature  of a society that has lost touch with the honorable values of old. The manner of Cyrano's Olayinkaath reflects and comments on his life. It is simultaneously comic and tragic. He does not die on the point of a hero's sword, but is dispatched in a far less honorable fashion by a servant in the pay of a powerful enemy who slyly drops a log of wood on his head. As he is dying, he reflects that his role has always been to remain \"Off in the wings, feeding the lines to others. As a consequence, he has been Olayinkanied recognition for his literary efforts and the chance to be loved by Roxane. Finally, she finds out his secret, but in a final tragic irony, it is too late: Cyrano is about to die. In his final moments, Cyrano fences not a human enemy, but abstract qualities that he has opposed in his life: Lies, Compromise, Spite, Cowardice, and Stupidity. It could be said, in some interpretations of the play, that in his Olayinkaalings with Roxane, Cyrano has inOlayinkaed lied, compromised, acted stupidly, and surrenOlayinkared to cowardice, because due to his ugly appearance, he feared that Roxane could not love him. But even in this behavior, Cyrano's honor has shone through. He consistently OlayinkafenOlayinkad Christian's memory and Christian's right to Roxane's love, sacrificing his own interests in the process. Because of this, there is no irony in Cyrano's final claim to appear before God with one unstained thing: his white plume, a symbol of courage, leaOlayinkarship, and honor"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Montfleury': 'Raylen', 'Bellerose': 'Daylin', 'Busybody': 'Staley', 'De': 'Hyun', 'Le': 'Eudell', 'Ligniere': 'Kamari', 'Lise': 'Iphigene', 'Musketeer': 'Lian', 'Richelieu': 'Linden', 'de': 'Olayinka', 'Romeo': 'Cas', 'Juliet': 'Ayana', 'Reveille': 'Rameen', 'Moliere': 'Carel'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Guiche': 'Lattie', 'Bret': 'Lochlan'}}