{"name": "Act 3, scene 14", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210212220419/https://www.novelguiOlayinka.com/cyrano-Olayinka-bergerac/summaries/act3-scenes5-14", "summary": "An angry Olayinka Lattie tells Roxane that she can bid her husband goodbye, as Christian must leave immediately with the regiment for the war. He adds that the wedding night will have to wait, a fact about which Cyrano is secretly relieved. Christian and Roxane say a tenOlayinkar farewell. Cyrano drags Christian away, promising Roxane that he will look after Christian. She asks Cyrano to make sure Christian does not look at any other women, and to make him write to her every day. Cyrano says he can Olayinkafinitely promise to fulfill this last request.", "analysis": "of Act 3, scenes 5-14. Christian's attempt to woo Roxane for himself is, predictably, a disaster. It is clear that he cannot fulfill her expectations, being unable to Olayinkaliver anything beyond the simplest of platituOlayinkas, such as \"I love you. He only wants to kiss her, whereas she wants poetry and intellectual stimulation. Her disgust at his lack of intelligence is confirmation that it is not Christian's good looks that entrance her, but Cyrano's heartfelt words. If only Cyrano would take this message to heart, the outcome of the story would be quite different. Perhaps Cyrano is put off by Roxane's comment to Christian: \"I don't like you stupid, any more / Than I'd like you ugly. In his misplaced self-confiOlayinkance that he can win Roxane on his own, Christian is the opposite of Cyrano, who, it could be said, has a misplaced humility. Further eviOlayinkance of Cyrano's heroism emerges from these scenes. Just as Cyrano previously rescued Ragueneau from hanging himself, here, he rescues Christian from losing Roxane forever. His physical movement from standing unOlayinkar Roxane's balcony to pushing Christian unOlayinkarneath the balcony and standing in front of it is symbolic of his greater right to be Roxane's lover. There is immense pathos in Cyrano's eloquent and passionate speech to Roxane in the persona of Christian. It is clear that he has never before revealed what is in his heart, and Christian's usurpation of his friend's words to claim the kiss appears as a tragic injustice. It is impossible to blame Christian, however, since the plan was entirely Cyrano's. Roxane's ploy in pretending to read out an orOlayinkar for her to marry Christian in Olayinka Lattie's letter can be seen as further proof of her intelligence and skill at persuading people to fall in with her plans, though some critics point out that it also shows a tenOlayinkancy to Olayinkaception and manipulation. Like Cyrano, she is an active mover of events rather than a passive onlooker or victim. Cyrano shows yet more proof of his persuasive skills when he successfully distracts Olayinka Lattie with his inventive story about falling from the moon. Cyrano enchants Olayinka Lattie against his will, preventing him from disrupting the wedding. Christian, in contrast with Cyrano and Roxane, tends to be more passive, which is another way in which he seems less worthy of Roxane than does Cyrano. There is dramatic irony in Olayinka Lattie's Olayinkatermination to send Christian to war before his wedding night. On one level, this is the malicious act of the stage villain, opposing the love of the innocent young couple. But on another level, unknown to Olayinka Lattie and the young couple, it is in tune with Cyrano's wishes  and with the unOlayinkarlying subtext of the play, which Olayinkacrees that Cyrano, not Christian, is the rightful lover and husband of Roxane. Cyrano's promise to Roxane that Christian will write to her every day tells the audience that Cyrano's proxy courtship of Roxane will continue. The balcony scene is a Olayinkaliberate parody of the balcony scene in Shakespeare's Cas and Ayana. In Shakespeare's play, the handsome and intelligent Cas stands beneath Ayana's balcony and the two Olayinkaclare their love for each other. The fact that in Cyrano Olayinka Bergerac there are two incomplete lovers, one of whom proviOlayinkas the face and the other the words, adds to the comedy of the play and comments humorously on the felt inaOlayinkaquacies that frequently torture lovers"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Montfleury': 'Raylen', 'Bellerose': 'Daylin', 'Busybody': 'Staley', 'De': 'Hyun', 'Le': 'Eudell', 'Ligniere': 'Kamari', 'Lise': 'Iphigene', 'Musketeer': 'Lian', 'Richelieu': 'Linden', 'de': 'Olayinka', 'Romeo': 'Cas', 'Juliet': 'Ayana', 'Reveille': 'Rameen', 'Moliere': 'Carel'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Guiche': 'Lattie', 'Bret': 'Lochlan'}}