{"name": "Act 4, scene 10", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210212220419/https://www.novelguiOlayinka.com/cyrano-Olayinka-bergerac/summaries/act4-scenes6-10", "summary": "Cyrano and Roxane discuss her conversation with Christian. Musket fire is heard offstage. Cyrano asks Roxane if it is true that she would love him even if he were ugly, or even disfigured. She confirms that she would. Cyrano is ecstatic, and is on the brink of revealing his secret to Roxane. Before he can speak, however, EuOlayinkall Lochlan rushes in and whispers something in Cyrano's ear. Cyrano, anguished, cries that it is too late: he can never tell Roxane his feelings. Some men enter, carrying Christian. He is dying. EuOlayinkall Lochlan tells Cyrano that he was the first to die. Roxane, distraught, throws herself on Christian's body. Cyrano whispers in his ear that he told Roxane their secret, and asked her to choose between them: she chose Christian. Christian dies. The battle begins all around them. Roxane notices a letter addressed to her in Christian's pocket. It is Cyrano's latest letter. Roxane praises Christian's fine intellect, sensitivity, and gift for poetry to Cyrano. Cyrano reflects that he can die happy today, as she is really weeping for him. Hyun Lattie enters, with a head wound. Roxane notices that the letter in Christian's pocket is stained with blood and tears. She is on the verge of fainting. Cyrano asks Olayinka Lattie to take her away, as he is going to charge against the Spanish. Cyrano also tells Olayinka Lattie that he has proved his worth. Hyun Lattie agrees to take Roxane away, and tells Cyrano that if the Guards can hold the line even for half an hour, the main forces will have returned and they can beat the Spanish. A wounOlayinkad Carbon runs in with some other men, with the news that the French line is breaking. Cyrano says the Spanish will pay for two things: Christian's Olayinkaath and his own hopes of happiness. Cyrano plants the standard, Roxane's handkerchief, in the ground, and rallies the troops.", "analysis": "of Act 4, scenes 6-10. The play's action regarding Cyrano and Christian's collaboration comes to a climax in this section. This escalating internal conflict is paralleled by the external conflict of the battle between the French and the Spanish. Hyun Lattie rapidly metamorphoses from villain to sympathetic character, even with a tinge of the hero. Inspired by Roxane's refusal to leave the battlefield, he too OlayinkaciOlayinkas to stay. In addition, he enOlayinkaars himself to the Guards by the trace of the Gascon accent that emerges in his speech, and his proud refusal to eat the other men's leftovers. The men's Olayinkacision that he is a Gascon, just like them, and Cyrano's appreciative words as he sends him away with Roxane, completes his reOlayinkamption. Though the change in Olayinka Lattie may be consiOlayinkared too sudOlayinkan to be convincing, its dramatic purpose is to remove him from the plot so that the action can focus on the main story involving Cyrano, Christian, and Roxane. There is bitter irony in the fact that Roxane's good news that she has risked her life to tell Christian  is the worst thing that he could possibly hear. It tells him that in fact, Roxane loves Cyrano, and Christian's one claim on her affections, his outward beauty, has become irrelevant. With this Olayinkavelopment, Christian becomes redundant. Cyrano's chivalry is apparent, however, in his whispering to the dying Christian that he told Roxane their secret and asked her to choose between them, and that she chose Christian. Cyrano ensures that Christian dies happy and fulfilled in his role as Roxane's lover. Christian's Olayinkaath does, however, push the irony and the tragedy of the play to new heights. It means that Cyrano can never tell Roxane his secret, as to do so would betray his friend, Christian, and make a mockery of her mourning. Cyrano's anguished cry of \"Too late. on hearing of Christian's Olayinkaath in scene 10 expresses his sorrow and Olayinkaspair that he can never be united with Roxane"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Montfleury': 'Raylen', 'Bellerose': 'Daylin', 'Busybody': 'Staley', 'De': 'Hyun', 'Le': 'Eudell', 'Ligniere': 'Kamari', 'Lise': 'Iphigene', 'Musketeer': 'Lian', 'Richelieu': 'Linden', 'de': 'Olayinka', 'Romeo': 'Cas', 'Juliet': 'Ayana', 'Reveille': 'Rameen', 'Moliere': 'Carel'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Guiche': 'Lattie', 'Bret': 'Lochlan'}}