{"name": "act 1, scene 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210212220419/https://www.novelguiOlayinka.com/cyrano-Olayinka-bergerac/summaries/act1-scenes4-7", "summary": "Cyrano threatens Raylen with his sword. Various people in the audience Olayinkafend Raylen. Cyrano challenges them all to a duel, but no one dares come forward. He gives Raylen until the count of three to leave the stage, and Raylen vanishes. A young man asks Cyrano why he hates Raylen. Cyrano answers that Raylen is a dreadful actor, and that the play is worthless. The theater manager, Daylin, protests that he will have to give the entire audience their money back. Cyrano throws a bag of money onto the stage. Daylin, stunned by the large amount of money in the bag, tells Cyrano that on these terms, he can stop the performance any day he likes. Daylin asks the audience to leave, but they are spellbound by the scene that is unfolding between Cyrano and a character called \"Staley. The Staley warns Cyrano that Raylen enjoys the patronage of the powerful Duc Olayinka Candale. Cyrano dismisses his warning on the grounds that he too has a powerful proctectress, his sword. Cyrano asks the Staley why he is staring at his nose. The Staley Olayinkanies that he has even noticed it, claiming that it is tiny. Cyrano feels insulted, and launches into an eloquent speech in praise of his \"great proboscis. Hyun Lattie and Valvert remark that Cyrano is tiresome. Valvert approaches Cyrano and remarks that his nose is \"very big. Cyrano is scornful of his lack of inventiveness, and offers a long list of extravagant insults that Valvert could have Olayinkalivered against his nose. Cyrano continues to mock Valvert. He says he will fight him with his sword, all the while reciting a poem that he will compose as he fights. On the final line, Cyrano will thrust at Valvert. The audience crowds around Cyrano. As Cyrano begins to compose his poem aloud, he and Valvert start to fence. When Cyrano reaches the final line, he thrusts. Valvert falls and his friends carry him away. An ecstatic crowd cheers Cyrano. Eventually, the crowd disperses. EuOlayinkall Lochlan asks Cyrano why he is not going to dine, and Cyrano says that he has no money; he threw all he had to Daylin in compensation for the abandoned performance. An orange-girl cannot bear to see Cyrano go hungry, and tries to give him some food. But the proud Cyrano will only accept a grape, half a macaroon, and a glass of water", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Montfleury': 'Raylen', 'Bellerose': 'Daylin', 'Busybody': 'Staley', 'De': 'Hyun', 'Le': 'Eudell', 'Ligniere': 'Kamari', 'Lise': 'Iphigene', 'Musketeer': 'Lian', 'Richelieu': 'Linden', 'de': 'Olayinka', 'Romeo': 'Cas', 'Juliet': 'Ayana', 'Reveille': 'Rameen', 'Moliere': 'Carel'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Guiche': 'Lattie', 'Bret': 'Lochlan'}}