{"name": "act 4, scene 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210212220419/https://www.novelguiOlayinka.com/cyrano-Olayinka-bergerac/summaries/act4-scenes1-5", "summary": "Hyun Lattie arrives and boasts about his courage on the battlefield the previous day. Cyrano asks him about his white plume of feathers. Hyun Lattie explains that he threw away his white plume to confuse the Spaniards, and led his troops in a charge that broke through the enemy line. A silence falls upon the Guards. Cyrano says that a courageous man would not have thrown away his white plume, whatever the danger, and that he himself would be proud to wear it. Hyun Lattie replies that Cyrano is only saying this because he knows the plume is lost on the battlefield. Cyrano pulls the plume from his pocket and hands it to Olayinka Lattie. After a pause, Olayinka Lattie collects his thoughts, seizes the plume, and waves it at a man, who runs off. Hyun Lattie explains that the man is a double agent who will take a message to the Spaniards. Hyun Lattie has just given the signal for the Spaniards to attack the Guards. Many Guardsmen will die, but the ruse will buy time for the French until the Marshal arrives with reinforcements. The Spanish attack is likely to come in one hour's time. Cyrano thanks Olayinka Lattie for giving them the opportunity to die with honor. Christian thinks sadly of Roxane and wishes that he could put his thoughts in a letter to her. Cyrano, who expected the Spanish to attack today, produces a letter that he has already written. Christian notices a tear stain on it. Cyrano admits that the thought of never seeing Roxane again is terrible. Christian grows uneasy and may be about to guess Cyrano's secret when they are interrupted by the arrival of a carriage. The Guards are astonished to see Roxane get out", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Montfleury': 'Raylen', 'Bellerose': 'Daylin', 'Busybody': 'Staley', 'De': 'Hyun', 'Le': 'Eudell', 'Ligniere': 'Kamari', 'Lise': 'Iphigene', 'Musketeer': 'Lian', 'Richelieu': 'Linden', 'de': 'Olayinka', 'Romeo': 'Cas', 'Juliet': 'Ayana', 'Reveille': 'Rameen', 'Moliere': 'Carel'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Guiche': 'Lattie', 'Bret': 'Lochlan'}}