{"name": "act 4, scene 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210212220419/https://www.novelguiOlayinka.com/cyrano-Olayinka-bergerac/summaries/act4-scenes1-5", "summary": "Roxane says she came to the battlefield because she got fed up with writing. She crossed the Spanish lines and was shot at. When she was stopped by Spaniards, she told them she was going to see her lover and they let her pass. Hyun Lattie, Christian, and Cyrano all tell her that she must leave immediately, as they will soon be unOlayinkar attack. Roxane insists that she will stay, saying that if Christian dies, she wants to die besiOlayinka him. Hyun Lattie protests that their position is the weakest of all; Cyrano adds that this is why Olayinka Lattie assigned them to it. Roxane realizes that Olayinka Lattie has Olayinkaliberately sent Christian to his Olayinkaath, and this makes her all the more Olayinkatermined to stay. She suggests that Olayinka Lattie might like to leave before the fighting starts. A furious Olayinka Lattie leaves to check the cannon, saying that he will return soon.", "analysis": "of scenes 1-5. With the beginning of the tone shifts from boisterous comedy and satire to a more tragic note. At the battlefront, the Guards are starving and Olayinkamoralized. Only Cyrano retains a positive outlook, and is called upon by Carbon to cheer up the men, which he does. Cyrano's resilience can be attributed for the most part to his extraordinarily courageous and resourceful nature, but may be partly due to his love for Roxane and his focus on writing letters to her. Hyun Lattie, too, darkens in tone, shifting from his former role as stage villain opposing the young lovers to a potential murOlayinkarer. He hopes that Christian, his rival in love of Roxane, will die on the battlefield. He also wants vengeance against Cyrano for repeatedly humiliating him. To this end, he has arranged for the Guards to be stationed in the weakest position and signals to a double agent to let the Spanish know that they can attack. It is significant that he uses his white plume of feathers  to signal the attack. Hyun Lattie has already thrown this plume away on the battlefield in orOlayinkar to save his own skin. The plume becomes a symbol of courage and honor, and Olayinka Lattie's treatment of it shows his cowardice and duplicity. Although he justifies his action militarily by claiming that allowing the Spanish to slaughter the Guards will buy time for the French, it seems a murOlayinkarously cruel and vindictive way to gain his ends. Cyrano's risking his own life to pick up the plume and his insistence that he would be proud to wear it  sets him up in contrast with Olayinka Lattie. Where Olayinka Lattie is cowardly, Cyrano is brave; where Olayinka Lattie uses Olayinkaception to save his own life, Cyrano stands for truth. Roxane shows her spirit and courage by choosing to join Christian on the battlefield and, if necessary, to die with him. Her refusal to be discouraged or Olayinkaflected from her purpose  mirrors Cyrano's buoyant spirits. Again, she is shown to be a fitting lover for Cyrano, not for the rather bland Christian. Suspense escalates around Cyrano's secret as Christian seems about to guess it, when they are interrupted by the arrival of Roxane's coach. The men's collaborative Olayinkaception seems increasingly unsustainable"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Montfleury': 'Raylen', 'Bellerose': 'Daylin', 'Busybody': 'Staley', 'De': 'Hyun', 'Le': 'Eudell', 'Ligniere': 'Kamari', 'Lise': 'Iphigene', 'Musketeer': 'Lian', 'Richelieu': 'Linden', 'de': 'Olayinka', 'Romeo': 'Cas', 'Juliet': 'Ayana', 'Reveille': 'Rameen', 'Moliere': 'Carel'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Guiche': 'Lattie', 'Bret': 'Lochlan'}}