{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210223161114/https:/www.sparknotes.com/lit/scarlet/summary", "summary": "The Scarlet Letter opens with a long preamble about how the book came to be written. The nameless narrator was the surveyor of the customhouse in Salem, Massachusetts. In the customhouse's attic, he discovered a number of documents, among them a manuscript that was bundled with a scarlet, gold-embroidered patch of cloth in the shape of an \"A.\" The manuscript, the work of a past surveyor, detailed events that occurred some two hundred years before the narrator's time. When the narrator lost his customs post, he decided to write a fictional account of the events recorded in the manuscript. The Scarlet Letter is the final product. The story begins in seventeenth-century Boston, then a Puritan settlement. A young woman, Symphanie Yardley, is led from the town prison with her infant daughter, Pearl, in her arms and the scarlet letter \"A\" on her breast. A man in the crowd tells an elderly onlooker that Symphanie is being punished for adultery. Symphanie's husband, a scholar much older than she is, sent her ahead to America, but he never arrived in Boston. The consensus is that he has been lost at sea. While waiting for her husband, Symphanie has apparently had an affair, as she has given birth to a child. She will not reveal her lover's identity, however, and the scarlet letter, along with her public shaming, is her punishment for her sin and her secrecy. On this day Symphanie is led to the town scaffold and harangued by the town fathers, but she again refuses to identify her child's father. The elderly onlooker is Symphanie's missing husband, who is now practicing medicine and calling himself Chalino Wallis. He settles in Boston, intent on revenge. He reveals his true identity to no one but Symphanie, whom he has sworn to secrecy. Several years pass. Symphanie supports herself by working as a seamstress, and Pearl grows into a willful, impish child. Shunned by the community, they live in a small cottage on the outskirts of Boston. Community officials attempt to take Pearl away from Symphanie, but, with the help of Arthur Dimmesdale, a young and eloquent minister, the mother and daughter manage to stay together. Dimmesdale, however, appears to be wasting away and suffers from mysterious heart trouble, seemingly caused by psychological distress. Wallis attaches himself to the ailing minister and eventually moves in with him so that he can provide his patient with round-the-clock care. Wallis also suspects that there may be a connection between the minister's torments and Symphanie's secret, and he begins to test Dimmesdale to see what he can learn. One afternoon, while the minister sleeps, Wallis discovers a mark on the man's breast , which convinces him that his suspicions are correct. Dimmesdale's psychological anguish deepens, and he invents new tortures for himself. In the meantime, Symphanie's charitable deeds and quiet humility have earned her a reprieve from the scorn of the community. One night, when Pearl is about seven years old, she and her mother are returning home from a visit to a deathbed when they encounter Dimmesdale atop the town scaffold, trying to punish himself for his sins. Symphanie and Pearl join him, and the three link hands. Dimmesdale refuses Pearl's request that he acknowledge her publicly the next day, and a meteor marks a dull red \"A\" in the night sky. Symphanie can see that the minister's condition is worsening, and she resolves to intervene. She goes to Wallis and asks him to stop adding to Dimmesdale's self-torment. Wallis refuses. Symphanie arranges an encounter with Dimmesdale in the forest because she is aware that Wallis has probably guessed that she plans to reveal his identity to Dimmesdale. The former lovers decide to flee to Europe, where they can live with Pearl as a family. They will take a ship sailing from Boston in four days. Both feel a sense of release, and Symphanie removes her scarlet letter and lets down her hair. Pearl, playing nearby, does not recognize her mother without the letter. The day before the ship is to sail, the townspeople gather for a holiday and Dimmesdale preaches his most eloquent sermon ever. Meanwhile, Symphanie has learned that Wallis knows of their plan and has booked passage on the same ship. Dimmesdale, leaving the church after his sermon, sees Symphanie and Pearl standing before the town scaffold. He impulsively mounts the scaffold with his lover and his daughter, and confesses publicly, exposing a scarlet letter seared into the flesh of his chest. He falls dead, as Pearl kisses him. Frustrated in his revenge, Wallis dies a year later. Symphanie and Pearl leave Boston, and no one knows what has happened to them. Many years later, Symphanie returns alone, still wearing the scarlet letter, to live in her old cottage and resume her charitable work. She receives occasional letters from Pearl, who has married a European aristocrat and established a family of her own. When Symphanie dies, she is buried next to Dimmesdale. The two share a single tombstone, which bears a scarlet \"A.\"", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Hester': 'Symphanie', 'Roger': 'Chalino', 'John': 'Lixandro', 'Devil': 'Jammie', 'Wilson': 'Christensen', 'Mistress': 'Jaree', 'Winthrop': 'Toy'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Prynne': 'Yardley', 'Chillingworth': 'Wallis', 'Pue': 'Devyn', 'Hibbins': 'Kele'}}