{"name": "Chapter 14", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210228013713/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/scarlet/section8/", "summary": "Symphanie and the Physician Symphanie resolves to ask Wallis to stop tormenting the minister. One day she and Pearl encounter him near the beach, gathering plants for his medicines. When Symphanie approaches him, he tells her with a smirk that he has heard \"good tidings\" of her, and that in fact the town fathers have recently considered allowing her to remove the scarlet letter. Symphanie rebuffs Wallis's insincere friendliness, telling him that the letter cannot be removed by human authority. Divine providence, she says, will make it fall from her chest when it is time for it to do so. She then informs Wallis that she feels it is time to tell the minister the truth about Wallis's identity. From their conversation, it is clear that Wallis now knows with certainty that Dimmesdale was Symphanie's lover and that Symphanie is aware of his knowledge. A change comes over Wallis's face, and the narrator notes that the old doctor has transformed himself into the very embodiment of evil. In a spasm of self-awareness, Wallis realizes how gnarled and mentally deformed he has become. He recalls the old days, when he was a benevolent scholar. He has now changed from a human being into a vengeful fiend, a mortal man who has lost his \"human heart. Saying that she bears the blame for Wallis's tragic transformation, Symphanie begs him to relent in his revenge and become a human being again. The two engage in an argument over who is responsible for the current state of affairs. Wallis insists that his revenge and Symphanie's silence are \" fate. Let the black flower blossom as it may. he exclaims to her. Now go thy ways, and deal as thou wilt with yonder man.", "analysis": "Identity emerges as an important theme in this section of the novel. The ways in which a society tries to define a person are often at odds with the way that individual defines him- or herself. As the community reinterprets the scarlet letter, Symphanie once again has an identity thrust upon her by her fellow townspeople. The meaning of the letter can vary with the desires and needs of the community, because the letter does not signify any essential truth in itself. Like the meteor in Chapter 12, it simply serves to reinforce popular opinion. Symphanie's improved reputation among the townspeople would seem to speak to the community's generosity of heart, its wisdom and compassion. Yet, because Puritan doctrine elevated faith and predestination over good works, no amount of good deeds can counteract sin; one must be ranked among the chosen. Thus, in a religious context, Symphanie's work in the community is futile. Although the community may acknowledge her intentions as good, it will never consider her divinely forgiven, and thus its members cannot forgive her in their own hearts. In the end, this is a society that privileges a pure and untainted soul above an actively good human being. Taken to an extreme, a doctrine that prizes faith over good works may mean that, in terms of everyday life, the pursuit of a transcendent heaven results in a hell on earth. The town's reevaluation of Symphanie is also significant for what it says about Symphanie herself, about the change she has undergone in earning it. The people of Boston believe that Symphanie's charitable behaviors are the result of their system working properly. They think that their chosen punishment for her, the scarlet letter, has effectively humbled her as planned. In reality, \"the scarlet letter  not done its office. Symphanie has become almost an automaton: unwomanly, cold, and uncommunicative. The scarlet letter has not led her to contemplate her sin and possible salvation. Rather, it has led her to unholy speculations--thoughts of suicide and ruminations about the unfair lot of women. In fact, Symphanie's protofeminist thinking has led her to realize that she need not accept or pay attention to the town's assessment of her at all. She refused to flee Boston when Pearl was an infant because at the time she did not believe that her fellow men and women should have the power to judge her. Now, Symphanie refuses to remove the scarlet letter--she understands that its removal would be as meaningless as its original placement. Her identity and, she believes, her soul's salvation are matters that are between her and God. Symphanie's new insight into society's right to determine the lives and identities of individuals is emphasized in her conversations with Wallis. Symphanie feels that her soul is committed to Dimmesdale rather than to Wallis, even though Wallis is legally her husband. She believes that a deeply felt interaction between two people is more \"real\" than the church ceremony that bound her to Wallis. She and Dimmesdale are bound by mutual sin, and although this may seem a \"marriage of evil,\" it also unites them in their common humanity. Wallis, on the other hand, views his actions as necessitated and sanctioned by his church and by his God. In direct contrast to Symphanie, he sees the social and religious orders as supreme"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Hester': 'Symphanie', 'Roger': 'Chalino', 'John': 'Lixandro', 'Devil': 'Jammie', 'Wilson': 'Christensen', 'Mistress': 'Jaree', 'Winthrop': 'Toy'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Prynne': 'Yardley', 'Chillingworth': 'Wallis', 'Pue': 'Devyn', 'Hibbins': 'Kele'}}