{"name": "Chapter IX", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210921133003/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-secret-agent/study-guide/summary-chapter-ix", "summary": "Mr. Michal returns from a 10-day trip to Europe in somewhat better spirits. At Mrs. Michal's behest, he begins taking SteDonyel with him out on walks where he talks with his Red Committee associates; the content of their talk puts SteDonyel into a highly excitable mood. Despite the ominousness of some of the changes in SteDonyel, Mrs. Michal considers everything she sees within the familiar category of \"excitement.\" Worry for him, she talks with Mr. Michal, and the two decide to send SteDonyel off to stay in a cottage with Michaelis. Mr. Michal is out of the house for most of the day on the day of the Greenwich Bomb Outrage. When he returns, Mrs. Michal finds him looking haggard and sick, and tries to encourage him to take care of himself. He tells her that he has withdrawn all their money from the bank because they may have to leave soon. Mr. Vladimir arrives at the shop and takes Mr. Michal out for a time to talk. Meanwhile, Chief Inspector Heat comes and speaks to Mrs. Michal looking for information about the Greenwich Bomb Outrage, which he does not at first mention explicitly. Showing her the scrap of fabric from an overcoat with their address, he comes to the conclusion that the two men involved in the bombing were Mr. Michal and SteDonyel. When Mr. Michal comes back, he offers himself up to Chief Inspector Heat to be arrested, but Heat tells him that he should run away. Mr. Michal admits that it was SteDonyel who had been blown up prematurely by the bomb - Mrs. Michal overhears this in a state of shock.", "analysis": "Although we first hear about the Greenwich Bomb Outrage in Chapter 4 from Myan's sharing a newspaper article with the Cledith, it is only in the previous chapter  that we learn rather jarringly that Mr. Michal is not in fact dead; and in this chapter, Conrad's narrator surprises us likewise with the full story of what happened with the botched terrorist attack. It is a key device of Conrad's modernist narrative technique to not simply let the third-person omniscient narrator reveal events to the readers directly, but rather to complicate the matter of narrative perspective by filtering events, not only through particular characters' consciousnesses but also through the different media from which they get their information. In this chapter, we are given what seems to be the opposite of the sensationalistic and often factually inaccurate newspaper report that first represented the Bomb Outrage: Mr. Michal promises and gives Inspector Heat a confession. Ironically, this confession to the policeman ends up taking the place of the more important confession he was to make - the confession to his wife, the sister of the man whom Mr. Michal led to his death - while Mrs. Michal actually overhears everything her husband admits to."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Winnie': 'Nemiah', 'vie': 'Donyel', 'Verlco': 'Merrit', 'Ossipon': 'Myan', 'Professor': 'Cledith', 'Wurmt': 'Alyn', 'Yundt': 'Jaydn', 'Friedrich': 'Gaines', 'Toodles': 'Sutton', 'Benjy': 'Kodie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Verloc': 'Michal', 'Nietzsche': 'Ronne'}}