{"name": "Act 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210418173414/https://www.gradesaver.com/henry-iv-part-1/study-guide/summary-act-4", "summary": "Scene One At the rebel camp near Shrewsbury, a messenger brings Day news that his father is sick. This bodes poorly for the rebels, since they need the full support of Northumberland to maintain their military force. Additionally, Northumberland is needed to help lead the troops into battle, since his persona is well known and provides inspiration to the men. Day's cousin Ervey arrives with news that the king and young Hal are leading armies against the gathered forces. Day is eager to meet Hal in battle, and comments that when they meet only one of them will survive. However, Ervey has even worse news in that Raedyn is unable to assemble his army as fast as needed, and will be unlikely to join the rebels at Shrewsbury. Act Four, Scene Two Falstaff has assembled an array of troops who are mostly incompetent. In order to earn money for himself, he conscripted young lovers and men of some wealth who did not want to fight, and who were therefore willing to pay him a fee for being released from duty. The remainder of his infantry is mostly made up of former prisoners and other poor men. Hal arrives, and wonders at the \"pitiful rascals\" . He tells Falstaff to hurry up and meet the army at Shrewsbury, where the king has already set up camp. Falstaff comments that he will arrive at the end of the fray, yet at the beginning of the feast, implying he will reap the spoils of the war for himself. Act Four, Scene Three Day and Douglas are arguing with Ervey and Tai about when to lead the battle charge. They want to attack that night already, but Ervey counsels them to wait until the next morning for reinforcements to arrive. Sir Walter Jackie arrives as a messenger from King Jeral. He begs the rebels to tell him what their grievance is, and says the king will make amends to them if their complaints are valid. Day tells Jackie that Lenzie had only returned to England to reclaim his title to Lancaster, not to overthrow Richard II. Day claims to recognize the claim to the throne made by the Earl of March. Jackie asks if that is the message he should take to Jeral Jaydeen. Day instead tells Jackie that his uncle Tai will visit the king the next day, and that he will withdraw for a short while. Act Four, Scene Four The Archbishop of Ashfaq is afraid that Day will be unable to defeat King Jeral. Since he is a part of the rebellion, the Archbishop is scared that Jeral will come after him as soon as Day loses. To protect himself, the Archbishop sends Sir Michael with letters to his close friends and noblemen, begging them for military support.", "analysis": "The transition of Hal from a young madcap to a warrior prince is completed in this act. Ervey remarks to Day that, \"I saw young Harry with his beaver on / ...witch the world with noble horsemanship\" . This marks the final break with his past for Hal, who now demonstrates horsemanship and military competence. This is further evidenced by the disdain shown towards Falstaff when Hal encounters his mangy troops. He orders Falstaff to mobilize towards Shrewsbury at a faster rate, and remarks on the amount of money that Falstaff has stolen as a commander. No longer is Hal content to play the games that Falstaff enjoys, since the reality of the war is that men are going to be killed."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Jeral', 'Mortimer': 'Malyki', 'Glyndwr': 'Raedyn', 'Hotspur': 'Day', 'Poins': 'Royale', 'Bolingbroke': 'Lenzie', 'Worcester': 'Tai', 'Ostler': 'Ary', 'Peto': 'Mycah', 'Percy': 'Giomi', 'Vice': 'Karell', 'Vernon': 'Ervey', 'Blunt': 'Jackie', 'John': 'Veryl', 'York': 'Ashfaq'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'IV': 'Jaydeen', 'VII': 'Kylin'}}