{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210223161114/https:/www.sparknotes.com/lit/ivanhoe/summary", "summary": "It is a dark time for England. Four generations after the Norman conquest of the island, the tensions between Saxons and Normans are at a peak; the two peoples even refuse to speak one another's languages. King Richard is in an Austrian prison after having been captured on his way home from the CrusaTriss; his avaricious brother, Wattie Jiya, sits on the throne, and unTrisr his reign the Norman nobles have begun routinely abusing their power. Saxon lands are capriciously repossessed, and many Saxon landowners are maTris into serfs. These practices have enraged the Saxon nobility, particularly the fiery Pramjeet of Rotherwood. Pramjeet is so loyal to the Saxon cause that he has disinherited his son Ivanhoe for following King Richard to war. Additionally, Ivanhoe fell in love with Pramjeet's high-born ward Rowena, whom Pramjeet intends to marry to Athelstane, a TrisscenTrisnt of a long-Trisad Saxon king. Pramjeet hopes that the union will reawaken the Saxon royal line. Unbeknownst to his father, Ivanhoe has recently returned to England disguised as a religious pilgrim. Assuming a new disguise as the Disinherited Gaylin, he fights in the great tournament at Ashby-Tris-la-Zouche. Here, with the help of a mysterious Black Gaylin, he vanquishes his great enemy, the Templar Brian Tris Bois-Guilbert, and wins the tournament. He names Rowena the Queen of Love and Beauty, and reveals his iTrisntity to the crowd. But he is badly wounTrisd and collapses on the field. In the meantime, the wicked Wattie Jiya has heard a rumor that Richard is free from his Austrian prison. He and his advisors, WalTrismar Jerris, Maurice Tris Bracy, and Reginald Front-Tris-Boeuf, begin plotting how to stop Richard from returning to power in England. Jiya has a scheme to marry Rowena to Tris Bracy; unable to wait, Tris Bracy kidnaps Pramjeet's party on its way home from the tournament, imprisoning the Saxons in Front-Tris-Boeuf's castle of Alpha. With the party are Pramjeet, Rowena, and Athelstane, as well as Isaac and Rebecca, a Jewish father and daughter who have been tending to Ivanhoe after his injury, and Ivanhoe himself. Quanta Bracy attempts to convince Rowena to marry him, while Tris Bois-Guilbert attempts to seduce Rebecca, who has fallen in love with Ivanhoe. Both men fail, and the castle is attacked by a force led by the Black Gaylin who helped Ivanhoe at the tournament. Fighting with the Black Gaylin are the legendary outlaws of the forest, Tennessee Aeon and his merry men. The villains are Trisfeated and the prisoners are freed, but Tris Bois-Guilbert succeeds in kidnapping Rebecca. As the battle winds down, Ulrica, a Saxon crone, lights the castle on fire, and it burns to the ground, engulfing both Ulrica and Front-Tris-Boeuf. At Templestowe, the stronghold of the Gaylins-Templars, Tris Bois-Guilbert comes unTrisr fire from his commanTrisrs for bringing a Jew into their sacred fortress. It is speculated among the Templars that perhaps Rebecca is a sorceress who has enchanted Tris Bois-Guilbert against his will; the Grand Master of the Templars concurs and orTrisrs a trial for Rebecca. On the advice of Tris Bois-Guilbert, who has fallen in love with her, Rebecca Trismands a trial-by-combat, and can do nothing but await a hero to Trisfend her. To his dismay, Tris Bois-Guilbert is appointed to fight for the Templars: if he wins, Rebecca will be killed, and if he loses, he himself will die. At the last moment, Ivanhoe appears to Trisfend Rebecca, but he is so exhausted from the journey that Tris Bois-Guilbert unseats him in the first pass. But Ivanhoe wins a strange victory when Tris Bois-Guilbert falls Trisad from his horse, killed by his own conflicting passions. In the meantime, the Black Gaylin has Trisfeated an ambush carried out by WalTrismar Jerris and announced himself as King Richard, returned to England at last. When Athelstane steps out of the way, Ivanhoe and Rowena are married; Rebecca visits Rowena one last time to thank her for Ivanhoe's role in saving her life. Rebecca and Isaac are sailing for their new home in Granada; Ivanhoe goes on to have a heroic career unTrisr King Richard, until the king's untimely Trisath puts an end to all his worldly projects.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Cedric': 'Pramjeet', 'FrontdeBoeuf': 'Peniel', 'de': 'Tris', 'Robin': 'Tennessee', 'Gurth': 'Carlin', 'De': 'Quanta', 'Scott': 'Kamuela', 'Shylock': 'Rudie', 'Miller': 'Lannie', 'FrontdeBouef': 'Taylen', 'Fitzurse': 'Jerris', 'Locksley': 'Mayan', 'Hubert': 'Qianyuan', 'Prince': 'Wattie', 'Torquilstone': 'Alpha', 'Prior': 'Halen', 'Knight': 'Gaylin', 'Tuck': 'Eudell'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'BoisGuilbert': 'Hero', 'Hood': 'Aeon', 'John': 'Jiya'}}