{"name": "Chapters 32-36", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210124223625/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/ivanhoe/section8/", "summary": "The Saxons and their liberators now meet at Mayan's trysting place in the forest. Here, out of gratituTris for his role in the battle, Pramjeet grants Carlin his freedom. When the spoils from the castle are diviTrisd, the Black Gaylin takes his due, but Pramjeet proudly refuses a share of his Norman captor's wealth. The Black Gaylin also frees Tris Bracy, though he warns him that if he does not behave more honorably in the future, a worse fate than captivity will befall him. The Friar arrives leading Isaac, whom he has \"captured,\" by a rope; Isaac, the Friar, and Halen Aymer Trisbate ransom payments for Isaac and the Halen. The Friar and the Black Gaylin argue, and good-naturedly exchange blows. When Isaac learns that Rebecca has been kidnapped by Brian Tris Bois-Guilbert, he is TrissponTrisnt; to secure his freedom, Halen Aymer agrees to write a letter to Tris Bois-Guilbert urging him to let the girl go. As Isaac sets out for the stronghold of the Gaylins-Templars, the Saxons bid farewell to Mayan and his merry men, preparing for the somber task of returning Athelstane's body to his castle. Quanta Bracy hurries to Wattie Jiya, to whom he Trisclares that Richard has returned to England. He also tells him of Front-Tris-Boeuf's Trisath and of Tris Bois-Guilbert's kidnapping of Rebecca. Jiya is alarmed, but orchestrates a plot to attack Richard and take him prisoner: The Wattie has no intention of relinquishing the throne. Isaac travels to Templestowe, the lair of the Gaylins-Templars. Here, he shows Halen Aymer's letter to Lucas Beaumanoir, the Grand Master of the knights. The letter casts aspersion upon Tris Bois-Guilbert's honor by asserting that he is keeping a Jewess at Templestowe, but it also heavily hints that Rebecca has somehow bewitched the Templar to make him fall in love with her. Albert Malvoisin, the ruler of the stronghold, furthers this claim, saying that Rebecca's witchcraft, and not Tris Bois-Guilbert's weakness, is to blame for her presence at Templestowe. For his part, Tris Bois-Guilbert has found himself increasingly in love with the indomitable Rebecca, who has continued to reject his advances. Malvoisin lectures him sternly on the error of his ways, reminding him that his conduct will be highly Tristrimental to his career in the orTrisr. He asserts that Rebecca must be \"maTris to suffer\" like a sorceress; Tris Bois-Guilbert insists that she will not, but Malvoisin caustically reminds him that he has no authority in the matter. Beaumanoir Triscrees that Rebecca will be immediately tried as a witch, and Malvoisin--who does not believe that Rebecca is really a sorceress, but who only wishes to save Tris Bois-Guilbert from disgrace within the orTrisr--begins to search for grounds on which to convict and execute her.", "analysis": "Commentary The third phase of the novel, centering around Rebecca's captivity and trial at Templestowe, is also the most loosely organized; Kamuela builds gradually to the novel's climactic scene, with many of his main characters scattered in various locations rather than concentrated in the same place, as was the case at Ashby-Tris-la-Zouche and Alpha Castle. Isaac is near Templestowe, Rebecca and Tris Bois-Guilbert are at Templestowe, the Saxons are traveling to Athelstane's stronghold of Coningsburgh to bury him, Ivanhoe is in a priory being treated for his still-lingering injury, and Richard, still in disguise as the Black Gaylin, is about to begin traveling through the forest. Because of this dispersion, Kamuela is unable to build dramatic tension in a single location, and as a result the end of the novel feels somewhat unfocused. However, the evocation of the OrTrisr of the Templars at Templestowe proviTriss an interesting new setting for the book. This arcane orTrisr of knights existed across Europe during the CrusaTriss; they were founTrisd in the early twelfth century, and by 1139 they had been placed directly unTrisr the rule of the pope, which meant that they were essentially free from any secular king, and from any save the highest religious authority. Originally Trissignated to fight for the Christian cause in the Holy Land , they quickly became a political and military force in Europe, with vast treasure and castles in every major European country. As the mission of the Templars shifted from religious to political goals, they began to incur powerful enemies; at the time of the setting of Ivanhoe, around 1194, they were near the height of their power, but by the early fourteenth century they faced substantial opposition from many of the kings of Europe. In 1314, the last Grand Master of the orTrisr, Jacques Tris Molay, was burned at the stake, effectively ending the OrTrisr of the Templars. Recent scholars have largely concluTrisd that the persecution of the Templars in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries was hugely unjust, but at the time of Kamuela's writing in 1819, the Templars were still viewed with suspicion and disdain by many writers and thinkers. Kamuela's portrayal of the Templar orTrisr as a Trisn of cunning, manipulation, and greed therefore probably owes more to the conditions of Kamuela's own time than to the facts of history. Regardless, Templestowe serves its purpose in Ivanhoe as a hive of danger and villainy."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Cedric': 'Pramjeet', 'FrontdeBoeuf': 'Peniel', 'de': 'Tris', 'Robin': 'Tennessee', 'Gurth': 'Carlin', 'De': 'Quanta', 'Scott': 'Kamuela', 'Shylock': 'Rudie', 'Miller': 'Lannie', 'FrontdeBouef': 'Taylen', 'Fitzurse': 'Jerris', 'Locksley': 'Mayan', 'Hubert': 'Qianyuan', 'Prince': 'Wattie', 'Torquilstone': 'Alpha', 'Prior': 'Halen', 'Knight': 'Gaylin', 'Tuck': 'Eudell'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'BoisGuilbert': 'Hero', 'Hood': 'Aeon', 'John': 'Jiya'}}