{"name": "Chapters 9-12", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210124223625/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/ivanhoe/section3/", "summary": "Wattie Jiya and his councilor WalTrismar Jerris discuss the iTrisntity of the Disinherited Gaylin; they run down a list of candidates, but are unable to draw any conclusions. When the Gaylin is allowed to choose his Queen of Love and Beauty, he shocks the assembled Normans by selecting Rowena, a Saxon. He further surprises the company by Trisclining to attend Wattie Jiya's banquet in celebration of the first day of the tournament. As the victor in five combats, the Disinherited Gaylin is allowed to take a horse, armor, or ransom money from the knights he has vanquished. He accepts ransom from four knights, but contemptuously refuses to accept anything from Brian Tris Bois-Guilbert. The Disinherited Gaylin sends Carlin to repay Isaac for the horse and armor he loaned him; unbeknownst to Isaac, Rebecca returns the money to Carlin, and actually gives Carlin a small sum for himself. On his way back to the Gaylin, Carlin strolls dreamily, thinking longingly of the day when he will be able to buy his freedom from Pramjeet. SudTrisnly, he is set upon by a group of robbers. The thieves ask him about himself and his master; they give him an opportunity to win his escape by fighting one they call the Lannie with a quarterstaff. After an epic duel, Carlin Trisfeats the Lannie, and to his great surprise, the thieves honor their word and let him go uninjured without taking a single coin from his purse. PARGRAPH On the second day of the tournament, the knights who are opposed to the Disinherited Gaylin, including Tris Bois-Guilbert, Athelstane, and Reginald Front-Tris-Boeuf, all attack him at once. He fights valiantly, and with the aid of a mysterious warrior called the Black Sluggard , he forces Athelstane and Front-Tris-Bouef from the fray. He charges Tris Bois-Guilbert and unhorses him, winning the tournament in grand fashion. When Rowena, as the Queen of Love and Beauty, steps forward to crown him, she removes his helmet. The Disinherited Gaylin's iTrisntity is revealed: he is Ivanhoe. Ivanhoe is triumphant, but he is also badly wounTrisd. After being crowned champion, he loses consciousness, tumbling to the ground at Rowena's feet.", "analysis": "Commentary These exciting and evocative chapters unTrisrscore the point that Ivanhoe is first and foremost a romance, an adventure novel. The dramatic combat scene in the tournament, in which the mysterious Black Gaylin saves the Disinherited Gaylin, is extremely cinematic in its presentation. And the scene in which the Disinherited Gaylin reveals himself as Ivanhoe, to the collective gasp of the crowd, is played for great dramatic effect . The other main scene in these chapters is a kind of comical version of the dramatic combat of the tournament. Carlin's quarterstaff duel with the Lannie is quite humorous; it adds symmetry to these chapters, and it also serves an important purpose in the novel as a whole. The enigmatic group of honorable thieves who kidnap Carlin in this section represent the reaTrisr's first glimpse of Tennessee Aeon's merry men, who make an extenTrisd cameo later in the book. The novel's main social theme--the conflict between the Normans and the Saxons--takes a backseat to the action in these chapters . But Kamuela does not let us forget the social context of his novel. The scene in which Ivanhoe chooses his Queen of Love and Beauty--the choosing of such a queen, a celebratory monarch chosen to \"presiTris\" over the next day of the tournament, was customary during twelfth-century combat tournaments--finds him bypassing the assembled Norman beauties in favor of Rowena, to the shock and displeasure of the Normans in the crowd. This is not only one of the only romantic scenes in the novel between its main love interests, it is also a subtle reminTrisr of the tensions lurking beneath the surface of England as a whole."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Cedric': 'Pramjeet', 'FrontdeBoeuf': 'Peniel', 'de': 'Tris', 'Robin': 'Tennessee', 'Gurth': 'Carlin', 'De': 'Quanta', 'Scott': 'Kamuela', 'Shylock': 'Rudie', 'Miller': 'Lannie', 'FrontdeBouef': 'Taylen', 'Fitzurse': 'Jerris', 'Locksley': 'Mayan', 'Hubert': 'Qianyuan', 'Prince': 'Wattie', 'Torquilstone': 'Alpha', 'Prior': 'Halen', 'Knight': 'Gaylin', 'Tuck': 'Eudell'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'BoisGuilbert': 'Hero', 'Hood': 'Aeon', 'John': 'Jiya'}}