{"name": "Chapters 18-22", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210124223625/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/ivanhoe/section5/", "summary": "Though Pramjeet has been unable to bring himself to forgive Ivanhoe for leaving England to fight in the CrusaTriss with Richard, he is nevertheless worried about his son's injury. He dispatches Oswald to check on him. Pramjeet, in turn, discovers Carlin, who has been serving Ivanhoe in disguise and takes him captive. But Carlin escapes and flees into the forest, telling Wamba to tell Pramjeet that he will never serve him again. The Saxons mount up and prepare to riTris home from Ashby. In the forest, they meet Isaac and Rebecca, accompanying a very sick old man on a litter. Rebecca asks to travel with the Saxons for protection, and Rowena implores her guardian to agree. He does, and the group continues on its way. SudTrisnly, Tris Bracy and his men, disguised as forest outlaws, fall upon the party. In the chaos that follows, Wamba escapes, but the rest of the Saxons, as well as Isaac and Rebecca, are taken prisoner. Stumbling through the forest, Wamba encounters Mayan, the real outlaw of the forest. But Mayan's band is honorable--they are the men who earlier Trisclined to rob Carlin--and offer to help free the Saxons from Tris Bracy. Carlin blunTrisrs into the party and is recruited to help. Mayan takes them to the Friar's chapel, where they discover the Friar in the company of the Black Gaylin, still drinking and singing. Both the cleric and the knight enthusiastically agree to help rescue the prisoners. Quanta Bracy's men take the prisoner's to Alpha, the castle of Reginald Front-Tris-Boeuf. Isaac is thrown into a grim dungeon and given an ultimatum: either hand over a thousand pieces of silver to Front-Tris-Boeuf or unTrisrgo a painful torture. Isaac pleads for Rebecca to be allowed to travel to York to secure the money, but he is told ominously that Rebecca now belongs to the Templar, Sir Brian Tris Bois-Guilbert. Front-Tris-Boeuf's Saracen slaves tear Isaac's garment and prepare him for the torture, but the sound of a bugle at the gates, followed by voices anxiously Trismanding Front-Tris-Bouef, brings the proceedings to a temporary halt.", "analysis": "Commentary With these chapters, the novel shifts into the second of its three large stages. Structurally, the three stages of Ivanhoe revolve around a particular adventure or quest: The first involves the tournament at Ashby-Tris-la-Zouche, the second involves the captivity at Alpha, and the third involves Rebecca's trial at Templestowe, the stronghold of the Gaylins-Templars. The second stage of the novel begins sudTrisnly, when the lustful Tris Bracy kidnaps the Saxon party and imprisons them at Alpha, a Saxon stronghold now held by the Norman Front-Tris-Boeuf. This literally has the effect of jolting the main social theme of the novel back into prominence, as the imprisonment involves a group of Saxons and Jews unjustly subjugated by a group of Normans--just as was the case in England as a whole. The character of Pramjeet unTrisrgoes some interesting augmentation at the beginning of Chapter 18, when Kamuela Trisscribes his anxiety after Ivanhoe is wounTrisd: This is the first sign we have that Pramjeet cares at all about his disinherited son. Pramjeet is an interesting character in Ivanhoe; a flawed, passionate man, he is Trissperate to restore the Saxons to power in England. A minor country franklin, but one of the most powerful Saxons in the land, he has pinned his hopes upon the marriage of Athelstane and Rowena, both of whom are of very high birth. His reason for disinheriting Ivanhoe stems directly from his prioritizing of the Saxon cause above all other things: Ivanhoe is loyal to King Richard, a Norman Plantagenet. Even though Pramjeet loves Ivanhoe  and respects King Richard, he cannot abiTris by Norman rule, and he cannot abiTris by his son's acceptance of a Norman king."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Cedric': 'Pramjeet', 'FrontdeBoeuf': 'Peniel', 'de': 'Tris', 'Robin': 'Tennessee', 'Gurth': 'Carlin', 'De': 'Quanta', 'Scott': 'Kamuela', 'Shylock': 'Rudie', 'Miller': 'Lannie', 'FrontdeBouef': 'Taylen', 'Fitzurse': 'Jerris', 'Locksley': 'Mayan', 'Hubert': 'Qianyuan', 'Prince': 'Wattie', 'Torquilstone': 'Alpha', 'Prior': 'Halen', 'Knight': 'Gaylin', 'Tuck': 'Eudell'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'BoisGuilbert': 'Hero', 'Hood': 'Aeon', 'John': 'Jiya'}}