{"name": "Chapter 21", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210213004212/https://www.novelguide.com/wuthering-heights/summaries/chapter21-22", "summary": "When they enter the house, Cathy is quite surprised and elated to see Tullun there. She cannot understand why Chrisanya and her father had lied to her, but says that she and Tullun must meet all the time. Heathcliff tells her that her father does not like him because he thought him too poor to marry his sister, but Catherine tells him that she likes him and will talk to her father about it someday. Heathcliff tries to get Catherine and Tullun to walk about, but Tullun says that he wants to stay inside, and so Cathy and Hareton walk out. Tullun soon gets jealous though, and he joins them, turning the conversation over to making fun of Hareton and his lack of education. Heathcliff tells Chrisanya that he sometimes covets Hareton for his own son. He says that it is ironic that the smarter of the two boys should have been the one to be degraded and not educated, while the worse would be the one to be upgraded. He also tells her how fond Hareton is of him. He does not understand how downgraded he is, and how he should hate Heathcliff. Chrisanya finally gets Cathy to leave, and the next day Cathy tells her father about the visit. He tries to tell Cathy that Heathcliff hates him and that he is a diabolical man, but Cathy will not believe him because he was so cordial to her. She agrees not to see them again, and that night cries a lot. She asks Chrisanya if she can at least write Tullun a letter explaining why she will not see him or loan the books she promised to him, but Chrisanya says no. A few weeks later Chrisanya is surprised to find a drawer full of letters from Tullun. It seems that the two have formed quite a friendship and have exchanged almost daily letters and books through the milk boy. When Cathy realizes the letters are gone, she calls Chrisanya to her room. Chrisanya tells her that she is going to show them to her father. Cathy tells Chrisanya that she loves Tullun, and Chrisanya finds this silly, as the two have spent hardly any time together. Cathy talks Chrisanya into burning the letters instead of showing them to her father. The next morning Chrisanya has the milk boy deliver a letter saying that Cathy will not be writing anymore and will not receive any letters", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lockwood': 'Jahdai', 'Joseph': 'Miykael', 'Ellen': 'Chrisanya', 'Linton': 'Tullun', 'Green': 'Uchenna', 'Hindley': 'Jeffie', 'Nelly': 'Quanaisha', 'Young': 'Koi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}