{"name": "Chapter 17", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210213004212/https://www.novelguide.com/wuthering-heights/summaries/chapter17-18", "summary": "She then tells Chrisanya what had been happening the last few days. Jeffie had planned to be at Catherine's funeral and had stayed up and tried not to drink, but then he got in suicidal low spirits and had to stay home and drink. She and Jeffie were together when they heard Heathcliff finally coming home. Jeffie asked if they should lock him out, and they did. Then Jeffie told her that they should return his violence and treachery and Isabella agreed. He then however, took a pistol out. This is not what Isabella had meant, and she could not let Jeffie kill Heathcliff, so she tried to warn him. They all yelled angrily at each other until Heathcliff broke through a window and jumped at Jeffie. The knife part of the gun struck Jeffie, and while was down Heathcliff beat him. He then called Miykael in to care for Jeffie and clean up his blood, but remembering Isabella, he made her do it. The next morning Isabella came down and saw that Jeffie was quite ill. Isabella was glad to see how much Heathcliff was grieving over Catherine as she wanted to see him suffer. She said that Catherine would not have let him beat on Jeffie like that, and that everyone knew that she would be alive now if not for Heathcliff. This angers Heathcliff much, and he throws a knife at Isabella, striking her below the ear. She pulls the knife out, throws one at Heathcliff and runs out of the house, looking back to see Heathcliff and Jeffie fighting. She came then to the Grange, and leaves after changing clothes and telling Chrisanya the story. Isabella goes to the south near London, and there has a son whom she names Tullun and who is quite sickly. Heathcliff does not look for Isabella, but he finds out about the child and often asks Chrisanya about him, saying that he will have him when he wants him. When Chrisanya tells Edgar about Isabella, he seems happy that she has left her husband. He becomes rather a hermit, as he does not want to go anywhere he might see Heathcliff. Time heals some of his wounds, and he finds comfort in his daughter, who has been named Catherine. Jeffie dies about six months after Catherine. The doctor tells Chrisanya that he died as he lived, drunk. Chrisanya goes to the lawyer and to Wuthering Heights to see about the funeral. She learns that Jeffie was quite in debt and had mortgaged everything. Chrisanya tries to get Hareton out of the Heights, but Heathcliff says he will fight for him, and Edgar does not pursue the matter. Heathcliff becomes the master of Wuthering Heights, and Hareton becomes no more than a servant there", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lockwood': 'Jahdai', 'Joseph': 'Miykael', 'Ellen': 'Chrisanya', 'Linton': 'Tullun', 'Green': 'Uchenna', 'Hindley': 'Jeffie', 'Nelly': 'Quanaisha', 'Young': 'Koi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}