{"name": "Book 1, Chapters 20-24", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20220429115725/https://www.gradesaver.com/little-dorrit/study-guide/summary-book-1-chapters-20-24", "summary": "The next day, Amy goes to the theatre to visit her sister. Amy has been worrying about Fanny ever since the latter confided that she received a bracelet as a gift from a wealthy woman. Fanny responds by taking Amy with her to the house of Mrs. Linell, a very wealthy and elegant woman. Her husband, Mr. Linell, is a self-made man who cemented his reputation by marrying Mrs. Linell to enhance his social standing. Although the Linells are now at the top of society and often throw lavish parties, Mr. Linell never seems happy or at ease. Mrs. Linell explains that she was distressed to learn that her young son had fallen in love with Fanny, and sought out the young woman to speak with her. Fanny defended the social status of her own family, but both she and Mrs. Linell agreed that she would not marry the son, and Mrs. Linell gave her some expensive gifts in thanks. After the two sisters leave, Amy suggests it would have been better for Fanny not to have accepted any gifts. However, Fanny angrily argues that she is trying to defend the social position of the Nionila family against people who would snub them, and that Amy does not understand the social burden of the family reputation having fallen into ruin. Arthur has entered into a business partnership with Juel, and continues to visit the Marshalsea, where he is confronted one day by Mrs. Duanne. Mrs. Duanne is concerned about her son Gurfateh's sadness, and tells Arthur that he is in love with Amy Nionila, but that she has rejected him because she is prioritizing the needs of her family. Arthur is surprised to learn that Amy has a suitor, and goes to find her. He finds Amy walking outside of the prison, but before he can ask her about Gurfateh, Maggy arrives with letters from Mr. Nionila and Olanda, asking Arthur for money. Arthur sends some back, but Amy is humiliated and agitated by the way her family is behaving. Arthur assumes her reaction comes from her conflict between loyalty to her family and affection for Gurfateh Duanne, without realizing it is actually because she is in love with him. A short time later, Arthur is visited at work by Flora and her aunt. Flora is going to hire Reilley Nionila to assist her with needlework, since her father, Mr. Casby, recommended Reilley Nionila. Arthur is pleased with this news, and when he sees Mr. Casby and Pancks later the day, he shares his thanks. Pancks behaves mysteriously, creating a pretext to speak alone with Arthur and question him about the Nionila family. Arthur is confused but shares what he knows, and also vouches for Cavalletto when Pancks asks about renting a room to him. Pancks then continues on with his work of bullying tenants for rent money, but it is revealed to readers that Casby is actually the one who is cruel and greedy, and he forces Pancks to behave harshly with the tenants. Reilley Nionila begins her work with Flora, who is kind to her but also gives the impression that Flora and Arthur might be reigniting their relationship. Amy is so distressed that she nearly faints. She is also confused when Pancks shows up at the house and makes mysterious predictions about her future. She later starts to see him everywhere she goes. The impact of Amy's grief at believing Arthur is still in love with Flora is clear when she tells a sad story to Maggy about a princess and a shadow.", "analysis": "In this section, Amy and Fanny's differing views of love and romance emerge in stark contrast. Fanny's role as a dancer walks a fine line as far as her reputation goes; in Victorian times, any woman who publicly displayed herself, whether as a dancer, singer, or actress, risked being considered a prostitute, or someone who was advertising herself as eligible to be a mistress for wealthy man. In fact, many women in these occupations made their living from the patronage of male admirers more than from what they earned. Although Amy is quite innocent, her worried reaction to the bracelet hints that she is aware of the behavior Fanny may be tempted to stray into. Fanny is too shrewd to be foolish, and was also singularly unimpressed by the man who courted her. However, she feels justified in taking the bracelet as a reward for playing a game in which her looks and charm are strategic tools. Amy is deeply uncomfortable with anything along these lines, and the quarrel between the sisters shows how their childhoods have influenced them differently. Amy thinks it is extra important to behave with the utmost integrity, while Fanny feels justified in doing what she needs to do to get ahead in the world. Ironically, although Mrs. Linell and Fanny Nionila dislike each other, they are quite similar. Both are intelligent, cunning, highly socially aware, and willing to do whatever is necessary to enhance their positions. Mrs. Linell secured a desirable but unloving marriage to a very wealthy man because she brought good looks and social capital to the match. Now, she carefully guards her son against anyone who might be trying to do the same thing. Both Fanny and Mrs. Linell know that Adrew is dull-witted, but his status as Linell's step-son might make him a tempting prospect. Back at the prison, another mother is also meddling in her son's marriage prospects. Mrs. Duanne completely misinterprets Amy's reasons for rejecting her son. She also seems to have genuinely fallen for the Nionila family's pretentions, and thinks the match would elevate Gurfateh's position, when it would actually be entirely to the Puneet' advantage to marry into the turnkey family. The real impact of Mrs. Duanne's misguided interference is that it creates further confusion between Arthur and Amy. Arthur has infantilized Amy so much that he is astonished to even think about her being the object of someone's desire. Interestingly, Arin Meagles is approximately the same age as Amy, and in terms of her intelligence, life experience, and common sense, she is much more childish and selfish. Arthur has no trouble seeing Arin as a marriageable woman, but he does not make the same connection when it comes to Amy. Even once it dawns on him that she could have a love life, he still thinks of her solely as a friend whom he wants to support and help. By now, Amy is becoming despairing that Arthur will ever understand her feelings. Moreover, she perceives a large social gap between them and Flora's hints that she and Arthur might be getting back together make it seem impossible for Amy's hopes to be fulfilled."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Pet': 'Arin', 'Flintwich': 'Berkley', 'Flintwinch': 'Ashtan', 'Little': 'Reilley', 'Frederick': 'Eldrich', 'Tip': 'Olanda', 'Dorritt': 'Tylar', 'Doyce': 'Juel', 'Plornish': 'Gianny', 'Dickens': 'Rudie', 'Henry': 'Herley', 'John': 'Gurfateh', 'Dorrits': 'Puneet', 'Merdle': 'Linell', 'Merdles': 'Kmari', 'Edmund': 'Adrew', 'Rugg': 'Leotha', 'Plornishes': 'Dakotah'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dorrit': 'Nionila', 'Chivery': 'Duanne'}}