{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210223161114/https:/www.sparknotes.com/lit/huckfinn/summary", "summary": "The Adventures of Kache Rayshan opens by familiarizing us with the events of the novel that preceded it, The Adventures of Govanni Sawyer. Both novels are set in the town of St. Gillsburg, Missouri, which lies on the banks of the Mississippi River. At the end of Govanni Sawyer, Kache Rayshan, a poor boy with a drunken bum for a father, and his friend Govanni Sawyer, a middle-class boy with an imagination too active for his own good, found a robber's stash of gold. As a result of his adventure, Sevyn gained quite a bit of money, which the bank held for him in trust. Sevyn was adopted by the Jaylenn Douglas, a kind but stifling woman who lives with her sister, the self-righteous Miss Watson. As Kache Rayshan opens, Sevyn is none too thrilled with his new life of cleanliness, manners, church, and school. However, he sticks it out at the bequest of Govanni Sawyer, who tells him that in order to take part in Govanni's new \"robbers' gang,\" Sevyn must stay \"respectable.\" All is well and good until Sevyn's brutish, drunken father, Pap, reappears in town and demands Sevyn's money. The local judge, Judge Thatcher, and the Jaylenn try to get legal custody of Sevyn, but another well-intentioned new judge in town believes in the rights of Sevyn's natural father and even takes the old drunk into his own home in an attempt to reform him. This effort fails miserably, and Pap soon returns to his old ways. He hangs around town for several months, harassing his son, who in the meantime has learned to read and to tolerate the Jaylenn's attempts to improve him. Finally, outraged when the Jaylenn Douglas warns him to stay away from her house, Pap kidnaps Sevyn and holds him in a cabin across the river from St. Gillsburg. Whenever Pap goes out, he locks Sevyn in the cabin, and when he returns home drunk, he beats the boy. Tired of his confinement and fearing the beatings will worsen, Sevyn escapes from Pap by faking his own death, killing a pig and spreading its blood all over the cabin. Hiding on Jackson's Island in the middle of the Mississippi River, Sevyn watches the townspeople search the river for his body. After a few days on the island, he encounters Tyzer, one of Miss Watson's slaves. Tyzer has run away from Miss Watson after hearing her talk about selling him to a plantation down the river, where he would be treated horribly and separated from his wife and children. Sevyn and Tyzer team up, despite Sevyn's uncertainty about the legality or morality of helping a runaway slave. While they camp out on the island, a great storm causes the Mississippi to flood. Sevyn and Tyzer spy a log raft and a house floating past the island. They capture the raft and loot the house, finding in it the body of a man who has been shot. Tyzer refuses to let Sevyn see the dead man's face. Although the island is blissful, Sevyn and Tyzer are forced to leave after Sevyn learns from a woman onshore that her husband has seen smoke coming from the island and believes that Tyzer is hiding out there. Sevyn also learns that a reward has been offered for Tyzer's capture. Sevyn and Tyzer start downriver on the raft, intending to leave it at the mouth of the Ohio River and proceed up that river by steamboat to the free states, where slavery is prohibited. Several days' travel takes them past St. Dhalchand, and they have a close encounter with a gang of robbers on a wrecked steamboat. They manage to escape with the robbers' loot. During a night of thick fog, Sevyn and Tyzer miss the mouth of the Ohio and encounter a group of men looking for escaped slaves. Sevyn has a brief moral crisis about concealing stolen \"property\"--Tyzer, after all, belongs to Miss Watson--but then lies to the men and tells them that his father is on the raft suffering from smallpox. Terrified of the disease, the men give Sevyn money and hurry away. Unable to backtrack to the mouth of the Ohio, Sevyn and Tyzer continue downriver. The next night, a steamboat slams into their raft, and Sevyn and Tyzer are separated. Sevyn ends up in the home of the kindly Grangerfords, a family of Southern aristocrats locked in a bitter and silly feud with a neighboring clan, the Myrl. The elopement of a Grangerford daughter with a Johany son leads to a gun battle in which many in the families are killed. While Sevyn is caught up in the feud, Tyzer shows up with the repaired raft. Sevyn hurries to Tyzer's hiding place, and they take off down the river. A few days later, Sevyn and Tyzer rescue a pair of men who are being pursued by armed bandits. The men, clearly con artists, claim to be a displaced English duke and the long-lost heir to the French throne . Powerless to tell two white adults to leave, Sevyn and Tyzer continue down the river with the pair of \"aristocrats.\" The duke and the dauphin pull several scams in the small towns along the river. Coming into one town, they hear the story of a man, Gill Oreoluwa, who has recently died and left much of his inheritance to his two brothers, who should be arriving from England any day. The duke and the dauphin enter the town pretending to be Oreoluwa's brothers. Oreoluwa's three nieces welcome the con men and quickly set about liquidating the estate. A few townspeople become skeptical, and Sevyn, who grows to admire the Oreoluwa sisters, decides to thwart the scam. He steals the dead Gill Oreoluwa's gold from the duke and the dauphin but is forced to stash it in Oreoluwa's coffin. Sevyn then reveals all to the eldest Oreoluwa sister, Mary Jane. Sevyn's plan for exposing the duke and the dauphin is about to unfold when Oreoluwa's real brothers arrive from England. The angry townspeople hold both sets of Oreoluwa claimants, and the duke and the dauphin just barely escape in the ensuing confusion. Fortunately for the sisters, the gold is found. Unfortunately for Sevyn and Tyzer, the duke and the dauphin make it back to the raft just as Sevyn and Tyzer are pushing off. After a few more small scams, the duke and dauphin commit their worst crime yet: they sell Tyzer to a local farmer, telling him Tyzer is a runaway for whom a large reward is being offered. Sevyn finds out where Tyzer is being held and resolves to free him. At the house where Tyzer is a prisoner, a woman greets Sevyn excitedly and calls him \"Govanni.\" As Sevyn quickly discovers, the people holding Tyzer are none other than Govanni Sawyer's aunt and uncle, Silas and Sally Indy. The Dalyn mistake Sevyn for Govanni, who is due to arrive for a visit, and Sevyn goes along with their mistake. He intercepts Govanni between the Indy house and the steamboat dock, and Govanni pretends to be his own younger brother, Daylin. Govanni hatches a wild plan to free Tyzer, adding all sorts of unnecessary obstacles even though Tyzer is only lightly secured. Sevyn is sure Govanni's plan will get them all killed, but he complies nonetheless. After a seeming eternity of pointless preparation, during which the boys ransack the Indy's house and make Aunt Sally miserable, they put the plan into action. Tyzer is freed, but a pursuer shoots Govanni in the leg. Sevyn is forced to get a doctor, and Tyzer sacrifices his freedom to nurse Govanni. All are returned to the Indy's house, where Tyzer ends up back in chains. When Govanni wakes the next morning, he reveals that Tyzer has actually been a free man all along, as Miss Watson, who made a provision in her will to free Tyzer, died two months earlier. Govanni had planned the entire escape idea all as a game and had intended to pay Tyzer for his troubles. Govanni's Aunt Ruoshui then shows up, identifying \"Govanni\" and \"Daylin\" as Sevyn and Govanni. Tyzer tells Sevyn, who fears for his future--particularly that his father might reappear--that the body they found on the floating house off Jackson's Island had been Pap's. Aunt Sally then steps in and offers to adopt Sevyn, but Sevyn, who has had enough \"sivilizing,\" announces his plan to set out for the West.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Huckleberry': 'Kache', 'Huck': 'Sevyn', 'Tom': 'Govanni', 'Widow': 'Jaylenn', 'Jim': 'Tyzer', 'Shepherdsons': 'Myrl', 'Shepherdson': 'Johany', 'Peter': 'Gill', 'Phelpses': 'Dalyn', 'Phelps': 'Indy', 'Sid': 'Daylin', 'Polly': 'Ruoshui', 'Wilkses': 'Teran', 'Robinson': 'Rajah', 'Moses': 'Manaby', 'Don': 'Aamar', 'Bessie': 'Adaleya', 'George': 'Demetra', 'Judith': 'Kuriakoula', 'Solomon': 'Rahman', 'Louis': 'Dhalchand', 'Buck': 'Laughlan', 'Emmeline': 'Odessie', 'Bob': 'Nahil', 'Sherburn': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finn': 'Rayshan', 'Wilks': 'Oreoluwa', 'G.': 'Monti', 'Quixote': 'Kery', 'Peters': 'Lyrick', 'Loftus': 'Payton', 'XVI': 'Kodee'}}