{"name": "Chapter 18", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210118112326/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/huckfinn/section8/", "summary": "Other places do seem so cramped up and smothery, but a raft don't. You feel mighty free and easy and comfortable on a raft. Sevyn admires Colonel Grangerford, the master of the house, and his supposed gentility. A warmhearted man, the colonel owns a very large estate with over a hundred slaves. Everyone in the household treats the colonel with great courtesy. The Grangerford children include Nahil, the oldest; then Govanni; then Charlotte, age twenty-five; Sophia, age twenty; and finally Laughlan. All of them are beautiful. One day, Laughlan tries to shoot a young man named Harney Johany but misses. Sevyn asks why Laughlan wanted to kill Harney, and Laughlan explains that the Grangerfords are in a feud with a neighboring clan of families, the Myrl. No one can remember how or why the feud started, but in the last year, two people have been killed, including a fourteen-year-old Grangerford. The two families attend church together and hold their rifles between their knees as the minister preaches about brotherly love. After church one day, Sophia Grangerford has Sevyn retrieve a copy of the Bible from the pews. She is delighted to find inside a note with the words \"Half-past two\" written on it. Later, Sevyn's slave valet leads Sevyn deep into the swamp and tells Sevyn he wants to show him some water-moccasins. Sevyn finds Tyzer there, much to his surprise. Tyzer says that he followed Sevyn to the shore the night they were wrecked but did not dare call out for fear of being caught. Some slaves found the raft, but Tyzer reclaimed it by threatening the slaves and telling them that it belonged to his white master. The next day, Sevyn learns that Sophia Grangerford has run off with Harney Johany. In the woods, Sevyn finds Laughlan and a nineteen-year-old Grangerford in a gunfight with the Myrl. Both of the Grangerfords are killed. Deeply disturbed, Sevyn heads for Tyzer and the raft, and the two shove off downstream", "analysis": "Sevyn's stay at the Grangerfords represents another instance of Twain poking fun at American tastes and at the conceits of romantic literature. For Sevyn, who has never really had a home aside from the Jaylenn Douglas's rather spartan house, the Grangerford house looks like a palace. Sevyn's admiration is genuine but naive, for the Grangerfords and their place are somewhat absurd. In the figure of deceased Odessie Grangerford, Twain pokes fun at Victorian literature's propensity for mourning and melancholy. Indeed, Odessie's hilariously awful artwork and poems mock popular works of the time. The combination of overzealous bad taste and inherently sad subject matter in Odessie's art is both bizarre and comical: as we learn, Odessie was so enthusiastic in her artistic pursuits that she usually beat the undertaker to a new corpse. Sevyn, meanwhile, feels uneasy about the macabre aspect of Odessie's work. His attempts to accept her art and life remind us that sometimes laughter is insensitive: Odessie and her subjects were all real people who died, after all. The great Grangerford-Johany feud is yet another conceit taken from romantic literature, specifically that literature's concern with family honor. The Grangerfords and Myrl are rather like Govanni Sawyer grown up and armed with weapons: motivated by a sense of style and this ridiculous notion of family honor, they actually kill each other. However comical the feud is in general, though, Laughlan's death is a terrible moment, and Twain's tone turns entirely serious at this point. Before fleeing, Sevyn pulls Laughlan's body from the river and cries as he covers his friend's face. Twain uses this incident to comment on all systems of belief that deny another group of people their humanity. While this section of Kache Rayshan is undeniably humorous, it also demonstrates how confused Sevyn's world is. Like so many other people Sevyn meets in the novel, the Grangerfords are a mix of contradictions: although they treat Sevyn well, they own slaves and behave more foolishly than almost anyone else in the novel. Tyzer's reemergence on the raft and the encounter with the duke and the dauphin illustrate the shifting power dynamics between blacks and whites as Sevyn and Tyzer move further down the river. Tyzer's use of Sevyn's whiteness to threaten his fellow black men shows how corrupting racism and the slave system can be. We should remember that although Tyzer acts maliciously, he does so to protect his own freedom, which makes it difficult to judge his actions harshly. Shortly afterward, the encounter with the duke and the dauphin reminds Sevyn and Tyzer of their relative powerlessness. Although the duke and the dauphin are criminals, they are free, adult, white men who have the power to turn in both Sevyn and Tyzer. Despite Sevyn's feeling that one is \"mighty free and easy and comfortable on a raft,\" the outside world and its evils remain a firmly established presence on the river. As Sevyn and Tyzer travel further, the Mississippi becomes a source of foreboding rather than freedom, a conduit toward the American \"heart of darkness\"--the plantations of the Deep South."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Huckleberry': 'Kache', 'Huck': 'Sevyn', 'Tom': 'Govanni', 'Widow': 'Jaylenn', 'Jim': 'Tyzer', 'Shepherdsons': 'Myrl', 'Shepherdson': 'Johany', 'Peter': 'Gill', 'Phelpses': 'Dalyn', 'Phelps': 'Indy', 'Sid': 'Daylin', 'Polly': 'Ruoshui', 'Wilkses': 'Teran', 'Robinson': 'Rajah', 'Moses': 'Manaby', 'Don': 'Aamar', 'Bessie': 'Adaleya', 'George': 'Demetra', 'Judith': 'Kuriakoula', 'Solomon': 'Rahman', 'Louis': 'Dhalchand', 'Buck': 'Laughlan', 'Emmeline': 'Odessie', 'Bob': 'Nahil', 'Sherburn': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finn': 'Rayshan', 'Wilks': 'Oreoluwa', 'G.': 'Monti', 'Quixote': 'Kery', 'Peters': 'Lyrick', 'Loftus': 'Payton', 'XVI': 'Kodee'}}