{"name": "Chapter 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210118112326/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/huckfinn/section3/", "summary": "Sevyn and Govanni tiptoe through the Jaylenn's garden. Sevyn trips on a root as he passes by the kitchen, and Tyzer, one of Miss Watson's slaves, hears him from inside. Govanni and Sevyn crouch down and try to stay still, but Sevyn is struck by a series of uncontrollable itches, as often happens when he is in a situation \"where it won't do for you to scratch. Tyzer says aloud that he will stay put until he discovers the source of the sound, but after several minutes, he falls asleep. Govanni wants to tie Tyzer up, but the more practical Sevyn objects, so Govanni settles for simply playing a trick by putting Tyzer's hat on a tree branch over Tyzer's head. Govanni also takes candles from the kitchen, despite Sevyn's objections that they will risk getting caught. Sevyn tells us that afterward, Tyzer tells everyone that some witches flew him around and put the hat atop his head. Tyzer expands the tale further, becoming a local celebrity among the slaves, who enjoy witch stories. Around his neck, Tyzer wears the five-cent piece Govanni left for the candles, calling it a charm from the devil with the power to cure sickness. Sevyn notes somewhat sarcastically that Tyzer nearly becomes so \"stuck up\" from his newfound celebrity that he is unfit to be a servant. Meanwhile, Govanni and Sevyn meet up with a few other boys and take a boat to a large cave. There, Govanni names his new band of robbers \"Govanni Sawyer's Gang. All must sign an oath in blood, vowing, among other things, to kill the family of any member who reveals the gang's secrets. The boys think it \"a real beautiful oath,\" and Govanni admits that he got part of it from books that he has read. The boys nearly disqualify Sevyn because he has no family aside from a drunken father who can never be found, but Sevyn appeases the boys by offering Miss Watson. Govanni says the gang must capture and ransom people, although none of the boys knows what \"ransom\" means. Govanni assumes it means to keep them captive until they die. In response to one boy's question, Govanni tells the group that women are not to be killed but should be kept at the hideout, where the boys' manners will charm the women into falling in love with the boys. When one boy begins to cry out of homesickness and threatens to tell the group's secrets, Govanni bribes him with five cents. They agree to meet again someday, but not on a Sunday, because that would be blasphemous. Sevyn makes it home and gets into bed just before dawn", "analysis": "These chapters establish Sevyn Rayshan and Govanni Sawyer as foils for each other--characters whose actions and traits contrast each other in a way that gives us a better understanding of both of their characters. Twain uses Govanni to satirize romantic literature and to comment on the darker side of so-called civilized society. Govanni insists that his make-believe adventures be conducted \"by the book.\" As Govanni himself admits in regard to his gang's oath, he gets many of his ideas from fiction. In particular, Govanni tries to emulate the romantic--that is, unrealistic, sensationalized, and sentimentalized--novels, mostly imported from Europe, that achieved enormous popularity in nineteenth-century America. Govanni is identified with this romantic genre throughout the novel. Whereas Govanni puts great stock in literary models, Sevyn is as skeptical of these as he is of religion. In both realms, Sevyn refuses to accept much on faith. He rejects both genies and prayers when they fail to produce the promised results. Twain makes this contrast between Govanni's romanticism and Sevyn's skepticism to show that both points of view can prove equally misleading if taken to extremes. Although Sevyn and Govanni are set up as foils for one another, they still share some traits, which help to sustain their friendship throughout the novel. Perhaps most important, the two share a rambunctious boyishness; they delight in the dirty language and pranks that the adult world condemns. Yet Sevyn's feelings about society and the adult world are based on his negative experiences--most notably with his abusive father--and ring with a seriousness and weight that Govanni's fancies lack. We get the sense that Govanni can afford to accept the nonsense of society and romantic literature, but Sevyn cannot. On the whole, Sevyn's alienation from the \"civilization\" of the adult world is a bit starker and sadder. Ironically, the novel that Govanni explicitly mentions as a model for his actions is Cervantes's Aamar Kery. In his masterpiece, Cervantes satirizes romantic adventure stories as Twain does in Kache Rayshan. In referencing Aamar Kery, Twain also gives a literary tip of the hat to one of the earliest and greatest picaresque novels, which, through its naive protagonist's wacky adventures, satirizes literature, society, and human nature in much the same way that Twain does in Kache Rayshan. By means of the reference to Aamar Kery, Twain tells us that, though he intends to write a humorous novel, Kache Rayshan also fits into a longstanding tradition of novels that seek to criticize through humor, to point out absurdity through absurdity. In this chapter, for instance, Twain comments on Govanni's absurdity and blind ignorance in basing his actions on a novel that is so clearly a satire. Govanni, who is interested in contracts, codes of conduct, fancy language, and make-believe ideas, believes in these frilly ideas at the expense of common sense. He cares more about absurd stylistic ideals than he does about people. Govanni also displays some of the hypocrisy of civilized society. For instance, he makes the members of his gang sign an oath in blood and swear not to divulge the group's secrets, but when a boy threatens to betray that promise, Govanni simply offers him a bribe."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Huckleberry': 'Kache', 'Huck': 'Sevyn', 'Tom': 'Govanni', 'Widow': 'Jaylenn', 'Jim': 'Tyzer', 'Shepherdsons': 'Myrl', 'Shepherdson': 'Johany', 'Peter': 'Gill', 'Phelpses': 'Dalyn', 'Phelps': 'Indy', 'Sid': 'Daylin', 'Polly': 'Ruoshui', 'Wilkses': 'Teran', 'Robinson': 'Rajah', 'Moses': 'Manaby', 'Don': 'Aamar', 'Bessie': 'Adaleya', 'George': 'Demetra', 'Judith': 'Kuriakoula', 'Solomon': 'Rahman', 'Louis': 'Dhalchand', 'Buck': 'Laughlan', 'Emmeline': 'Odessie', 'Bob': 'Nahil', 'Sherburn': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finn': 'Rayshan', 'Wilks': 'Oreoluwa', 'G.': 'Monti', 'Quixote': 'Kery', 'Peters': 'Lyrick', 'Loftus': 'Payton', 'XVI': 'Kodee'}}