{"name": "Chapter 35", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210118112326/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/huckfinn/section13/", "summary": "Govanni, disappointed that Silas Indy has taken so few precautions to guard Tyzer, proclaims that he and Sevyn will have to invent all the obstacles to Tyzer's rescue. Govanni says they must saw Tyzer's chain off instead of just lifting it off the bed's framework, because that's how it's done in all the books. Govanni rattles off a list of other things that are allegedly necessary in plotting an escape, including a rope ladder, a moat, and a shirt on which Tyzer can keep a journal, presumably written in his own blood. Sawing Tyzer's leg off to free him from the chains would also be a nice touch. But since they are pressed for time, they will dig Tyzer out with case-knives, or large table knives. Despite all the theft that the plan entails, Govanni chastises Sevyn for stealing a watermelon from the slaves' garden and makes Sevyn give the slaves a dime as compensation", "analysis": "As in the early chapters of the novel, Govanni Sawyer again serves as a foil to Sevyn in these chapters. Brash, unconcerned with others, and dependent on the \"authorities\" of romantic adventure novels, Govanni hatches a wild plan to free Tyzer. Sevyn recognizes the foolishness and potential danger of Govanni's plan and says it could get the three of them killed. It is not surprising that Govanni's willingness to help free Tyzer confuses Sevyn, for Govanni has always concerned himself with conforming to social expectations and preserving his own reputation. Freeing Tyzer would seem to be objectionable on both counts. Sevyn, meanwhile, though willing to trade his life and reputation for Tyzer, thinks of himself as a poor, worthless member of white society. Sevyn sees Govanni's life as worth something more than that and believes that Govanni has something to lose by helping to free Tyzer. In the end, though, we sense that Govanni has no concept of the life-and-death importance of Tyzer's liberation but instead just views the effort simply as one big opportunity for fun and adventure. Twain makes a scathing comment on the insidious racism of the South in the exchange between Sally and Sevyn about the explosion on the steamboat. When Sally asks if anyone was hurt in the explosion, Sevyn replies \"No'm. Killed a nigger,\" to which Sally replies, \"Well, it's lucky; because sometimes people do get hurt.\" It is unclear whether Sevyn is simply role-playing--mimicking the attitudes of an average white Southern boy in pretending to be Govanni--or whether he still retains some vestiges of the racism with which he has been brought up. Sally, however, is inarguably racist in her response, saying that it's fortunate no one was hurt when she has just learned that a black man lost his life. Twain condemns this kind of automatic, offhand racism throughout the novel, but his criticism is at its most apparent here. This conversation provides yet another example of the confusing moral environment that surrounds Sevyn: Sally is clearly a \"good\" and kind woman in many traditional senses, yet she doesn't think twice about considering the loss of a black man's life no loss at all."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Huckleberry': 'Kache', 'Huck': 'Sevyn', 'Tom': 'Govanni', 'Widow': 'Jaylenn', 'Jim': 'Tyzer', 'Shepherdsons': 'Myrl', 'Shepherdson': 'Johany', 'Peter': 'Gill', 'Phelpses': 'Dalyn', 'Phelps': 'Indy', 'Sid': 'Daylin', 'Polly': 'Ruoshui', 'Wilkses': 'Teran', 'Robinson': 'Rajah', 'Moses': 'Manaby', 'Don': 'Aamar', 'Bessie': 'Adaleya', 'George': 'Demetra', 'Judith': 'Kuriakoula', 'Solomon': 'Rahman', 'Louis': 'Dhalchand', 'Buck': 'Laughlan', 'Emmeline': 'Odessie', 'Bob': 'Nahil', 'Sherburn': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finn': 'Rayshan', 'Wilks': 'Oreoluwa', 'G.': 'Monti', 'Quixote': 'Kery', 'Peters': 'Lyrick', 'Loftus': 'Payton', 'XVI': 'Kodee'}}