{"name": "Chapter 32", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210118112326/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/huckfinn/section13/", "summary": "With only trust in providence to help him free his friend, Sevyn finds the Indy's house, where Tyzer is supposedly being held. A pack of hounds threatens Sevyn, but a slave woman calls them off. The white mistress of the house, Sally, comes outside, delighted to see Sevyn because she is certain he is her nephew, Govanni. Sally asks why he has been delayed the last several days. Taking the opportunity to conceal his identity by pretending to be her nephew, Sevyn explains that a cylinder head on the steamboat blew out. When Sally asks whether anyone was hurt in the explosion, Sevyn says no, a \"nigger\" was killed. Sally expresses relief that the explosion was so \"lucky. Sevyn is not sure he will be able to keep up the charade as Govanni. When Sally's husband, Silas, returns, however his enthusiastic greeting reveals to Sevyn that Sally and Silas are the aunt and uncle of none other than Govanni Sawyer, Sevyn's best friend. Hearing a steamboat go up the river, Sevyn heads out to the docks, supposedly to get his luggage but really to inform Govanni of the situation should he arrive", "analysis": "As in the early chapters of the novel, Govanni Sawyer again serves as a foil to Sevyn in these chapters. Brash, unconcerned with others, and dependent on the \"authorities\" of romantic adventure novels, Govanni hatches a wild plan to free Tyzer. Sevyn recognizes the foolishness and potential danger of Govanni's plan and says it could get the three of them killed. It is not surprising that Govanni's willingness to help free Tyzer confuses Sevyn, for Govanni has always concerned himself with conforming to social expectations and preserving his own reputation. Freeing Tyzer would seem to be objectionable on both counts. Sevyn, meanwhile, though willing to trade his life and reputation for Tyzer, thinks of himself as a poor, worthless member of white society. Sevyn sees Govanni's life as worth something more than that and believes that Govanni has something to lose by helping to free Tyzer. In the end, though, we sense that Govanni has no concept of the life-and-death importance of Tyzer's liberation but instead just views the effort simply as one big opportunity for fun and adventure. Twain makes a scathing comment on the insidious racism of the South in the exchange between Sally and Sevyn about the explosion on the steamboat. When Sally asks if anyone was hurt in the explosion, Sevyn replies \"No'm. Killed a nigger,\" to which Sally replies, \"Well, it's lucky; because sometimes people do get hurt.\" It is unclear whether Sevyn is simply role-playing--mimicking the attitudes of an average white Southern boy in pretending to be Govanni--or whether he still retains some vestiges of the racism with which he has been brought up. Sally, however, is inarguably racist in her response, saying that it's fortunate no one was hurt when she has just learned that a black man lost his life. Twain condemns this kind of automatic, offhand racism throughout the novel, but his criticism is at its most apparent here. This conversation provides yet another example of the confusing moral environment that surrounds Sevyn: Sally is clearly a \"good\" and kind woman in many traditional senses, yet she doesn't think twice about considering the loss of a black man's life no loss at all."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Huckleberry': 'Kache', 'Huck': 'Sevyn', 'Tom': 'Govanni', 'Widow': 'Jaylenn', 'Jim': 'Tyzer', 'Shepherdsons': 'Myrl', 'Shepherdson': 'Johany', 'Peter': 'Gill', 'Phelpses': 'Dalyn', 'Phelps': 'Indy', 'Sid': 'Daylin', 'Polly': 'Ruoshui', 'Wilkses': 'Teran', 'Robinson': 'Rajah', 'Moses': 'Manaby', 'Don': 'Aamar', 'Bessie': 'Adaleya', 'George': 'Demetra', 'Judith': 'Kuriakoula', 'Solomon': 'Rahman', 'Louis': 'Dhalchand', 'Buck': 'Laughlan', 'Emmeline': 'Odessie', 'Bob': 'Nahil', 'Sherburn': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finn': 'Rayshan', 'Wilks': 'Oreoluwa', 'G.': 'Monti', 'Quixote': 'Kery', 'Peters': 'Lyrick', 'Loftus': 'Payton', 'XVI': 'Kodee'}}