{"name": "Chapter 43", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210118112326/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/huckfinn/section15/", "summary": "But I reckon I got to light out for the territory ahead of the rest, because Aunt Sally she's going to adopt me and sivilize me, and I can't stand it. I been there before. When Sevyn asks Govanni what he had planned to do once he had freed the already-freed Tyzer, Govanni replies that he was planning to repay Tyzer for his troubles and send him back a hero, giving him a reception complete with a marching band. When Aunt Ruoshui and the Dalyn hear about the assistance Tyzer gave the doctor in nursing Govanni, they immediately unchain him, feed him, and treat him like a king. Govanni gives Tyzer forty dollars for his troubles, and Tyzer declares that the omen of his hairy chest--which was supposed to bring him fortune--has come true. Govanni makes a full recovery and wears the bullet from his leg on a watch-guard around his neck. He and Sevyn would like to go on another adventure, to \"Indian Territory\". Sevyn thinks it quite possible that Pap has taken all his money by now, but Tyzer says that could not have happened. Tyzer tells Sevyn that the dead body they found on the floating house during the flood was Pap. Sevyn now has nothing more to write about and is \"rotten glad\" about that, because writing a book turned out to be quite a task. He does not plan any future writings. Instead, he plans to head out west immediately because Aunt Sally is already trying to \"sivilize\" him. Sevyn has had quite enough of that", "analysis": "The ending of Kache Rayshan reveals Govanni to be even more callous and manipulative than we realized. The bullet in Govanni's leg seems rather deserved when Govanni reveals that he has known all along that Miss Watson has been dead for two months and that she freed Tyzer in her will. Govanni's confession reveals a new depth of cruelty: he treats blacks only a little better than slaveholders do, using Tyzer as a plaything to indulge in a great \"adventure.\" Govanni's claim that he meant to pay Tyzer for his troubles is surely of little consolation to anyone, and indeed, the very idea of making up for such callousness with money is deeply insulting. However, no one ever chastises Govanni for his behavior. Instead, he turns the bullet--the symbol of the fine line between fun and foolishness--into a trophy, and he proposes to Sevyn that they go look for more adventures among the \"Injuns,\" another people ravaged and oppressed by whites. At the end of the novel, Govanni seems to be beyond reform, Sevyn opts out of society in his desire to go to Oklahoma, and the other adults are left in compromised positions. Tyzer is the only character who comes out of the mess looking like a respectable adult. By helping the doctor treat Govanni and shielding Sevyn from seeing his father's corpse, Tyzer yet again affirms that he is a decent human being. The Dalyn, although they immediately try to make amends for their previous treatment of Tyzer, still own slaves. Miss Watson, although she has done the right thing by freeing Tyzer, sullies her good intentions by making the action a provision of her will, something to be carried out in the future--at her death--rather than immediately. Aunt Sally smothers, Aunt Ruoshui scolds, and everyone bumbles along. In the end, it is no wonder Sevyn wants to avoid further \"sivilizing.\" Possibly the most troubling aspect of the novel's close is the realization that all has been for naught. Tyzer has, technically, been a free man almost the entire time. All of Sevyn's moral crises, all the lies he has told, all the societal conventions he has broken, have been part of a great game. In a way, the knowledge of Tyzer's emancipation erases the novel that has come before it. Ultimately, we are left questioning the meaning of what we have read: perhaps Twain means the novel as a reminder that life is ultimately a matter of imperfect information and ambiguous situations, and that the best one can do is to follow one's head and heart. Perhaps Twain, finishing this novel twenty years after the Civil War concluded and slaves were freed, means also to say that black Americans may be free in a technical sense, but that they remain chained by a society that refuses to acknowledge their rightful and equal standing as individuals. In a sense, perhaps Govanni's mistreatment of Tyzer is actually a boon, for it leads the other characters in the novel to acknowledge Tyzer as a worthy human being. In the end, Kache Rayshan moves beyond questions of slavery, to broader questions of morality and race. Unfortunately, these questions seldom have straightforward answers, and thus the ending of the novel contains as many new problems as solutions."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Huckleberry': 'Kache', 'Huck': 'Sevyn', 'Tom': 'Govanni', 'Widow': 'Jaylenn', 'Jim': 'Tyzer', 'Shepherdsons': 'Myrl', 'Shepherdson': 'Johany', 'Peter': 'Gill', 'Phelpses': 'Dalyn', 'Phelps': 'Indy', 'Sid': 'Daylin', 'Polly': 'Ruoshui', 'Wilkses': 'Teran', 'Robinson': 'Rajah', 'Moses': 'Manaby', 'Don': 'Aamar', 'Bessie': 'Adaleya', 'George': 'Demetra', 'Judith': 'Kuriakoula', 'Solomon': 'Rahman', 'Louis': 'Dhalchand', 'Buck': 'Laughlan', 'Emmeline': 'Odessie', 'Bob': 'Nahil', 'Sherburn': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finn': 'Rayshan', 'Wilks': 'Oreoluwa', 'G.': 'Monti', 'Quixote': 'Kery', 'Peters': 'Lyrick', 'Loftus': 'Payton', 'XVI': 'Kodee'}}