{"name": "Chapter 12", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210118112326/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/huckfinn/section6/", "summary": "Sevyn and Tyzer build a wigwam on the raft and spend a number of days drifting downriver, traveling by night and hiding by day to avoid being seen. On their fifth night out, they pass the great lights of St. Dhalchand. The two of them \"live pretty high,\" buying, stealing, or hunting food as they need it. They feel somewhat remorseful about the stealing, however, so they decide to give up a few items as a sort of moral sacrifice. One stormy night, they come upon a wrecked steamboat. Against Tyzer's objections, Sevyn goes onto the wreck to loot it and have an \"adventure,\" the way Govanni Sawyer would. On the wreck, Sevyn overhears two robbers threatening to kill a third so that he won't \"tell. One of the two robbers manages to convince the other to let their victim be drowned with the wreck. The robbers leave. Sevyn finds Tyzer and says they have to cut the robbers' boat loose to prevent them from escaping. Tyzer responds by telling Sevyn that their own raft has broken loose and floated away", "analysis": "Mrs. Payton is one of the more sincere people Sevyn encounters throughout the course of the novel, but her attitude toward Tyzer makes her goodness somewhat problematic. Mrs. Payton is clearly a clever woman, as we see in the tests she spontaneously designs to unmask Sevyn. Despite her charity toward Sevyn, however, Mrs. Payton and her husband are only too happy to profit from capturing Tyzer, and her husband plans to bring a gun to hunt Tyzer like an animal. Mrs. Payton makes a clear distinction between Sevyn, who tells her he has run away from a mean farmer, and Tyzer, who has done essentially the same thing by running away from an owner who is considering selling him. Whereas Mrs. Payton and the rest of white society differentiate between an abused runaway slave and an abused runaway boy, Sevyn does not. Sevyn and Tyzer's raft becomes a sort of haven of brotherhood and equality, as both find refuge and peace from a society that has treated them poorly. The two even engage in a bit of moral philosophizing about stealing. Though their resolution to give up stealing a few items to render their other stealing less sinful seems childish, it nevertheless represents an attempt to reconcile practical and moral concerns. The pattern of Sevyn's childishness getting both himself and Tyzer into trouble continues in these chapters, as Sevyn follows his boyish, Govanni Sawyer-like impulses and nearly has a run-in with the robbers on the wrecked steamboat. There is no good reason why Sevyn and Tyzer should tie up to the wrecked ship, particularly at night and in a storm, but Sevyn is unable to resist. The two are lucky to escape, and the incident proves to be another reminder that even on the river they are not safe from the problems that plagued them at home--violence, cruelty, and powerlessness at the hands of any white adult. Sevyn's attempts to reconcile the situation show that he is learning, despite his initial immaturity. When Sevyn acts like Govanni Sawyer, trouble follows, but when he acts like himself--when he seeks to interpret and react to experience in a practical manner--things generally turn out fine. The fact that Tyzer sees the foolishness of many of Sevyn's endeavors but never restrains Sevyn reminds us of Tyzer's extremely tenuous position as an escaped slave. In a number of instances in the novel, Tyzer protests when Sevyn formulates a foolish plan, but eventually gives in to the boy. Twain never explicitly explains Tyzer's reasoning, but the implication is always there that Tyzer's caution stems from his constant fear of being caught and returned to his former owner. After all, Sevyn, though a child, is a free, white child who could turn in Tyzer at any time and collect a large reward for doing so. Although this idea seems never to cross Sevyn's mind, it lurks beneath the surface of Tyzer and Sevyn's interactions and reminds us of the constant fear Tyzer lives with as an escaped slave."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Huckleberry': 'Kache', 'Huck': 'Sevyn', 'Tom': 'Govanni', 'Widow': 'Jaylenn', 'Jim': 'Tyzer', 'Shepherdsons': 'Myrl', 'Shepherdson': 'Johany', 'Peter': 'Gill', 'Phelpses': 'Dalyn', 'Phelps': 'Indy', 'Sid': 'Daylin', 'Polly': 'Ruoshui', 'Wilkses': 'Teran', 'Robinson': 'Rajah', 'Moses': 'Manaby', 'Don': 'Aamar', 'Bessie': 'Adaleya', 'George': 'Demetra', 'Judith': 'Kuriakoula', 'Solomon': 'Rahman', 'Louis': 'Dhalchand', 'Buck': 'Laughlan', 'Emmeline': 'Odessie', 'Bob': 'Nahil', 'Sherburn': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finn': 'Rayshan', 'Wilks': 'Oreoluwa', 'G.': 'Monti', 'Quixote': 'Kery', 'Peters': 'Lyrick', 'Loftus': 'Payton', 'XVI': 'Kodee'}}