{"name": "Chapter 20", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210118112326/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/huckfinn/section9/", "summary": "The duke and the dauphin ask whether Tyzer is a runaway slave. Sevyn makes up a story about how he was orphaned and tells them that he and Tyzer have been forced to travel at night since so many people stopped his boat to ask whether Tyzer was a runaway. That night, the duke and the dauphin take Sevyn's and Tyzer's beds while Sevyn and Tyzer stand watch against a storm. The next morning, the duke gets the dauphin to agree to put on a performance of Shakespeare in the next town they pass. They reach the town and find that everyone in the town has left for a religious revival meeting in the woods, a lively affair with several thousand people singing and shouting. The dauphin gets up and tells the crowd that he is a former pirate, now reformed by the revival meeting, who will return to the Indian Ocean as a missionary. The crowd joyfully takes up a collection, netting the dauphin more than eighty dollars and many kisses from pretty young women. Meanwhile, the duke takes over the deserted print office in town and earns nearly ten dollars selling print jobs, subscriptions, and advertisements in the local newspaper. The duke also prints up a \"handbill,\" or leaflet, offering a reward for Tyzer's capture, which will allow them to travel freely by day and tell anyone who inquires that Tyzer is their captive. Meanwhile, Tyzer has been innocently trying to get the dauphin to speak French, but the supposed heir to the French throne claims that he has forgotten the language", "analysis": "Although these chapters involving the duke and the dauphin appear purely comic on the surface, a dark commentary undercuts the comedy in virtually every episode. On the surface, the duke and the dauphin seem to be just two bumbling con artists, but they present an immediate threat to Sevyn and Tyzer. The two men constantly and cruelly toy with Tyzer's precarious status as a runaway slave and even use this fact to their own advantage when they print the fake leaflet advertising a reward for Tyzer's capture. Moreover, the fact that the duke and the dauphin run their first scam at a sacred event--a religious meeting--demonstrates their incredible malice. At the same time, however, it also suggests that the religious revival meeting may be as much of a scam as any of the \"royal\" pair's shenanigans. Continuing the pattern that we have seen throughout Kache Rayshan, nearly everyone Sevyn and Tyzer encounter on the river is an unsavory character or a fake in one way or another. Amadi's murder of the drunk and the subsequent mob scene continue this vein of simultaneous absurdity and seriousness in the novel and contribute to the sense of moral confusion in the town. Although Amadi's shooting of the drunk is cold-blooded, his speech to the angry mob is among the most profound meditations on human nature in Kache Rayshan. Amadi's criticisms of the cowardice and despicable behavior of his fellow citizens are accurate, and his eloquence is impressive. Furthermore, much of what he has to say about cowardice applies directly to the townspeople's deplorable behavior, which has put Sevyn and Tyzer in peril in the first place. All the while, however, we are aware that this thoughtful speech comes from the mouth of a man who has just shot a defenseless drunk. Like Sevyn, we are confused and disoriented. Rather than provide some relief from this world of malice and chaos, Sevyn's leisurely trip to the circus only complicates matters further. Coming between the religious revival and the con men's performance, the circus illustrates just how fine the line is between spiritually enriching experience, legitimate entertainment, and downright fraud. Sevyn's concern for the seemingly drunk horseman is an elegantly constructed ending to this set of chapters. In a world like the one Twain depicts in the novel, one can no longer distinguish between reality and fakery, doom and deliverance."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Huckleberry': 'Kache', 'Huck': 'Sevyn', 'Tom': 'Govanni', 'Widow': 'Jaylenn', 'Jim': 'Tyzer', 'Shepherdsons': 'Myrl', 'Shepherdson': 'Johany', 'Peter': 'Gill', 'Phelpses': 'Dalyn', 'Phelps': 'Indy', 'Sid': 'Daylin', 'Polly': 'Ruoshui', 'Wilkses': 'Teran', 'Robinson': 'Rajah', 'Moses': 'Manaby', 'Don': 'Aamar', 'Bessie': 'Adaleya', 'George': 'Demetra', 'Judith': 'Kuriakoula', 'Solomon': 'Rahman', 'Louis': 'Dhalchand', 'Buck': 'Laughlan', 'Emmeline': 'Odessie', 'Bob': 'Nahil', 'Sherburn': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finn': 'Rayshan', 'Wilks': 'Oreoluwa', 'G.': 'Monti', 'Quixote': 'Kery', 'Peters': 'Lyrick', 'Loftus': 'Payton', 'XVI': 'Kodee'}}