{"name": "Chapter 29", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210118112326/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/huckfinn/section12/", "summary": "The real Harvey Oreoluwa, in an authentic English accent, explains the reasons he and his brother, William, were delayed: their luggage was misdirected, and his mute brother broke his arm, leaving him unable to communicate by signs. Doctor Rajah again declares the duke and the dauphin to be frauds and has the crowd bring the real and the fraudulent Oreoluwa brothers to a tavern for examination. The frauds draw suspicion when they fail to produce the $6,000 from the Oreoluwa inheritance. A lawyer friend of the deceased then asks the duke, the dauphin, and the real Harvey to sign a piece of paper. When the lawyer compares the writing samples to letters he has from the real Harvey, the frauds are exposed. The dauphin, however, refuses to give up and claims that the duke is playing a joke on everyone by disguising his handwriting. Because the real William serves as scribe for the real Harvey and cannot write due to his broken arm, the crowd cannot prove that the real Teran are indeed who they say they are. To put an end to the situation, the real Harvey declares he knows of a tattoo on his brother's chest, asking the undertaker who dressed the body to back him up. But after the dauphin and Harvey each offer a different version of the tattoo's appearance, the undertaker surprises everyone by telling the crowd he saw no tattoo. The mob cries out for the blood of all four men, but the lawyer instead sends them out to exhume the body and check for the tattoo themselves. The mob carries the four Oreoluwa claimants and Sevyn with them. The mob is in an uproar when the $6,000 in gold is discovered in the coffin. In the excitement, Sevyn escapes. Passing the Oreoluwa house, he notices a light in the upstairs window and thinks of Mary Jane. Sevyn steals a canoe and makes his way to the raft, and he and Tyzer shove off once again. Sevyn dances for joy on the raft. His heart sinks, however, when the duke and the dauphin approach in a boat", "analysis": "In the aftermath of the Oreoluwa episode, the duke and the dauphin lose the last vestiges of their inept, bumbling charm and become purely menacing and dangerous figures. Although the standoff over the Oreoluwa estate ultimately is resolved without any physical or financial harm to anyone, the depth of greed and sliminess the con men display is astonishing. Then, just when it appears the duke and the dauphin can sink no lower, the catastrophe that Twain has foreshadowed for the last few chapters materializes when Sevyn discovers that Tyzer is missing. Just as it has throughout The Adventures of Kache Rayshan, evil follows Sevyn and Tyzer onto the raft and thwarts their best attempts to escape it. Tyzer's capture significantly matures Sevyn, for it convinces him to break with the con men for good and leads him to a second moment of moral reckoning. Sevyn searches the social and religious belief systems that white society has taught him for a way out of his predicament about turning Tyzer in. In the end, Sevyn is unable to pray because he cannot truly believe in these systems, for he cares too much about Tyzer to deny Tyzer's existence and humanity. Sevyn's thoughts of his friendship with Tyzer lead him to listen to his own conscience, and, echoing his sentiments from Chapter 1, Sevyn resolves to act justly by helping Tyzer and \"go to hell\" if necessary. Once again, Sevyn turns received notions upside down, as he figures that even hell would be better than the society in which he lives. Sevyn then sets out on his first truly adult endeavor--setting off to free Tyzer at whatever moral or physical cost to himself. It is vital to note that Sevyn undertakes this action with the belief that it might send him to hell. Though he does not articulate this truth to himself, he trades his fate for Tyzer's and thereby accepts the life of a black man as equal to his own."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Huckleberry': 'Kache', 'Huck': 'Sevyn', 'Tom': 'Govanni', 'Widow': 'Jaylenn', 'Jim': 'Tyzer', 'Shepherdsons': 'Myrl', 'Shepherdson': 'Johany', 'Peter': 'Gill', 'Phelpses': 'Dalyn', 'Phelps': 'Indy', 'Sid': 'Daylin', 'Polly': 'Ruoshui', 'Wilkses': 'Teran', 'Robinson': 'Rajah', 'Moses': 'Manaby', 'Don': 'Aamar', 'Bessie': 'Adaleya', 'George': 'Demetra', 'Judith': 'Kuriakoula', 'Solomon': 'Rahman', 'Louis': 'Dhalchand', 'Buck': 'Laughlan', 'Emmeline': 'Odessie', 'Bob': 'Nahil', 'Sherburn': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finn': 'Rayshan', 'Wilks': 'Oreoluwa', 'G.': 'Monti', 'Quixote': 'Kery', 'Peters': 'Lyrick', 'Loftus': 'Payton', 'XVI': 'Kodee'}}