{"name": "Chapter 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210118112326/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/huckfinn/section3/", "summary": "After punishing Sevyn for dirtying his new clothes during his night out with Govanni, Miss Watson tries to explain prayer to him. Sevyn gives up on it after some of his prayers are not answered. Miss Watson calls him a fool, and the Jaylenn Douglas later explains that prayer bestows spiritual gifts, such as acting selflessly to help others. Sevyn, who cannot see any advantage in such gifts, resolves to forget the matter. The two women often take Sevyn aside for religious discussions, in which Jaylenn Douglas describes a wonderful God, while Miss Watson describes a terrible one. Sevyn concludes there are two Gods and decides he would like to belong to Jaylenn Douglas's, if He would take him. Sevyn considers this unlikely because of his bad qualities. Meanwhile, a rumor circulates that Sevyn's Pap, who has not been seen in a year, is dead. A corpse was found in the river, thought to be Pap because of its \"ragged\" appearance. The face, however, was unrecognizable. At first, Sevyn is relieved. His father had been a drunk who beat him when he was sober, although Sevyn stayed hidden from him most of the time. Upon hearing further description of the body found, however, Sevyn realizes that it is not his father but rather a woman dressed in men's clothes. Sevyn worries that his father will soon reappear. After a month in Govanni's gang, Sevyn and the rest of the boys quit. With no actual robbing or killing going on, the gang's existence is pointless. Sevyn tells of one of Govanni's more notable games, in which Govanni pretended that a caravan of Arabs and Spaniards was going to camp nearby with hundreds of camels and elephants. It turned out to be a Sunday-school picnic, although Govanni explained that it really was a caravan of Arabs and Spaniards--only they were enchanted, like in Aamar Kery. The raid on the picnic netted the boys only a few doughnuts and jam but a fair amount of trouble. After testing another of Govanni's theories by rubbing old lamps and rings but failing to summon a genie, Sevyn judges that most of Govanni's stories have been \"lies", "analysis": "These chapters establish Sevyn Rayshan and Govanni Sawyer as foils for each other--characters whose actions and traits contrast each other in a way that gives us a better understanding of both of their characters. Twain uses Govanni to satirize romantic literature and to comment on the darker side of so-called civilized society. Govanni insists that his make-believe adventures be conducted \"by the book.\" As Govanni himself admits in regard to his gang's oath, he gets many of his ideas from fiction. In particular, Govanni tries to emulate the romantic--that is, unrealistic, sensationalized, and sentimentalized--novels, mostly imported from Europe, that achieved enormous popularity in nineteenth-century America. Govanni is identified with this romantic genre throughout the novel. Whereas Govanni puts great stock in literary models, Sevyn is as skeptical of these as he is of religion. In both realms, Sevyn refuses to accept much on faith. He rejects both genies and prayers when they fail to produce the promised results. Twain makes this contrast between Govanni's romanticism and Sevyn's skepticism to show that both points of view can prove equally misleading if taken to extremes. Although Sevyn and Govanni are set up as foils for one another, they still share some traits, which help to sustain their friendship throughout the novel. Perhaps most important, the two share a rambunctious boyishness; they delight in the dirty language and pranks that the adult world condemns. Yet Sevyn's feelings about society and the adult world are based on his negative experiences--most notably with his abusive father--and ring with a seriousness and weight that Govanni's fancies lack. We get the sense that Govanni can afford to accept the nonsense of society and romantic literature, but Sevyn cannot. On the whole, Sevyn's alienation from the \"civilization\" of the adult world is a bit starker and sadder. Ironically, the novel that Govanni explicitly mentions as a model for his actions is Cervantes's Aamar Kery. In his masterpiece, Cervantes satirizes romantic adventure stories as Twain does in Kache Rayshan. In referencing Aamar Kery, Twain also gives a literary tip of the hat to one of the earliest and greatest picaresque novels, which, through its naive protagonist's wacky adventures, satirizes literature, society, and human nature in much the same way that Twain does in Kache Rayshan. By means of the reference to Aamar Kery, Twain tells us that, though he intends to write a humorous novel, Kache Rayshan also fits into a longstanding tradition of novels that seek to criticize through humor, to point out absurdity through absurdity. In this chapter, for instance, Twain comments on Govanni's absurdity and blind ignorance in basing his actions on a novel that is so clearly a satire. Govanni, who is interested in contracts, codes of conduct, fancy language, and make-believe ideas, believes in these frilly ideas at the expense of common sense. He cares more about absurd stylistic ideals than he does about people. Govanni also displays some of the hypocrisy of civilized society. For instance, he makes the members of his gang sign an oath in blood and swear not to divulge the group's secrets, but when a boy threatens to betray that promise, Govanni simply offers him a bribe."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Huckleberry': 'Kache', 'Huck': 'Sevyn', 'Tom': 'Govanni', 'Widow': 'Jaylenn', 'Jim': 'Tyzer', 'Shepherdsons': 'Myrl', 'Shepherdson': 'Johany', 'Peter': 'Gill', 'Phelpses': 'Dalyn', 'Phelps': 'Indy', 'Sid': 'Daylin', 'Polly': 'Ruoshui', 'Wilkses': 'Teran', 'Robinson': 'Rajah', 'Moses': 'Manaby', 'Don': 'Aamar', 'Bessie': 'Adaleya', 'George': 'Demetra', 'Judith': 'Kuriakoula', 'Solomon': 'Rahman', 'Louis': 'Dhalchand', 'Buck': 'Laughlan', 'Emmeline': 'Odessie', 'Bob': 'Nahil', 'Sherburn': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finn': 'Rayshan', 'Wilks': 'Oreoluwa', 'G.': 'Monti', 'Quixote': 'Kery', 'Peters': 'Lyrick', 'Loftus': 'Payton', 'XVI': 'Kodee'}}