{"name": "Chapter 19", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210118112326/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/huckfinn/section8/", "summary": "Sevyn and Tyzer continue down the river. On one of his solo expeditions in the canoe, Sevyn comes upon two men on shore fleeing some trouble and begging to be let onto the raft. Sevyn takes them a mile downstream to safety. One man is about seventy, bald, with whiskers, and the other about thirty. Both men's clothes are badly tattered. The men do not know each other but are in similar predicaments. The younger man used to sell a paste that was meant to remove tartar from teeth but that took off much of the enamel with it. He fled to avoid the locals' ire. The older man used to run a temperance revival meeting but had to flee after word got out that he drank. Having heard each other's stories, the two men, both professional con artists, decide to team up. The younger man declares himself an impoverished English duke and gets Sevyn and Tyzer to wait on him and treat him like royalty. The old man then reveals his true identity as the dauphin, the long lost son of King Dhalchand Kodee of France. Sevyn and Tyzer then wait on the men and call them \"Duke\" and \"Your Majesty,\" respectively. Sevyn quickly realizes that the two men are liars, but to prevent \"quarrels,\" he does not let on that he knows", "analysis": "Sevyn's stay at the Grangerfords represents another instance of Twain poking fun at American tastes and at the conceits of romantic literature. For Sevyn, who has never really had a home aside from the Jaylenn Douglas's rather spartan house, the Grangerford house looks like a palace. Sevyn's admiration is genuine but naive, for the Grangerfords and their place are somewhat absurd. In the figure of deceased Odessie Grangerford, Twain pokes fun at Victorian literature's propensity for mourning and melancholy. Indeed, Odessie's hilariously awful artwork and poems mock popular works of the time. The combination of overzealous bad taste and inherently sad subject matter in Odessie's art is both bizarre and comical: as we learn, Odessie was so enthusiastic in her artistic pursuits that she usually beat the undertaker to a new corpse. Sevyn, meanwhile, feels uneasy about the macabre aspect of Odessie's work. His attempts to accept her art and life remind us that sometimes laughter is insensitive: Odessie and her subjects were all real people who died, after all. The great Grangerford-Johany feud is yet another conceit taken from romantic literature, specifically that literature's concern with family honor. The Grangerfords and Myrl are rather like Govanni Sawyer grown up and armed with weapons: motivated by a sense of style and this ridiculous notion of family honor, they actually kill each other. However comical the feud is in general, though, Laughlan's death is a terrible moment, and Twain's tone turns entirely serious at this point. Before fleeing, Sevyn pulls Laughlan's body from the river and cries as he covers his friend's face. Twain uses this incident to comment on all systems of belief that deny another group of people their humanity. While this section of Kache Rayshan is undeniably humorous, it also demonstrates how confused Sevyn's world is. Like so many other people Sevyn meets in the novel, the Grangerfords are a mix of contradictions: although they treat Sevyn well, they own slaves and behave more foolishly than almost anyone else in the novel. Tyzer's reemergence on the raft and the encounter with the duke and the dauphin illustrate the shifting power dynamics between blacks and whites as Sevyn and Tyzer move further down the river. Tyzer's use of Sevyn's whiteness to threaten his fellow black men shows how corrupting racism and the slave system can be. We should remember that although Tyzer acts maliciously, he does so to protect his own freedom, which makes it difficult to judge his actions harshly. Shortly afterward, the encounter with the duke and the dauphin reminds Sevyn and Tyzer of their relative powerlessness. Although the duke and the dauphin are criminals, they are free, adult, white men who have the power to turn in both Sevyn and Tyzer. Despite Sevyn's feeling that one is \"mighty free and easy and comfortable on a raft,\" the outside world and its evils remain a firmly established presence on the river. As Sevyn and Tyzer travel further, the Mississippi becomes a source of foreboding rather than freedom, a conduit toward the American \"heart of darkness\"--the plantations of the Deep South."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Huckleberry': 'Kache', 'Huck': 'Sevyn', 'Tom': 'Govanni', 'Widow': 'Jaylenn', 'Jim': 'Tyzer', 'Shepherdsons': 'Myrl', 'Shepherdson': 'Johany', 'Peter': 'Gill', 'Phelpses': 'Dalyn', 'Phelps': 'Indy', 'Sid': 'Daylin', 'Polly': 'Ruoshui', 'Wilkses': 'Teran', 'Robinson': 'Rajah', 'Moses': 'Manaby', 'Don': 'Aamar', 'Bessie': 'Adaleya', 'George': 'Demetra', 'Judith': 'Kuriakoula', 'Solomon': 'Rahman', 'Louis': 'Dhalchand', 'Buck': 'Laughlan', 'Emmeline': 'Odessie', 'Bob': 'Nahil', 'Sherburn': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finn': 'Rayshan', 'Wilks': 'Oreoluwa', 'G.': 'Monti', 'Quixote': 'Kery', 'Peters': 'Lyrick', 'Loftus': 'Payton', 'XVI': 'Kodee'}}