{"name": "Chapter 26", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210118112326/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/huckfinn/section11/", "summary": "The dauphin arranges to stay in the Oreoluwa house. Sevyn has supper with Joanna, the youngest Oreoluwa sister, whom he calls \"the hare-lip\" because of her cleft lip, a birth defect. Joanna tests Sevyn's knowledge of England, and he makes several slips, forgetting that he is supposedly from Sheffield and that the dauphin is supposed to be a Protestant minister. Finally, Joanna asks if he has made the entire thing up. Joanna's sisters, Mary Jane and Susan, interrupt and instruct Joanna to be courteous to their guest, and she graciously apologizes. Sevyn feels terrible about letting such sweet women be swindled and resolves to get them their money back. He goes to the con men's room to search for the money and hides when they enter. The duke wants to leave town that night, but the dauphin convinces him to stay until they have stolen all the family's property. After the men leave the room, Sevyn finds the $6,000 in gold, takes it to his sleeping cubby, and then sneaks out late at night", "analysis": "These chapters mark several milestones in Sevyn's development, as he acts on his conscience for the first time and takes concrete steps to thwart the schemes of the duke and the dauphin. Although Sevyn has shown an increasing maturity and sense of morality as the novel has progressed, he has been tentative in taking sides or action, frequently hedging his bets and qualifying the statements he makes. He has chosen not to challenge or expose the duke and the dauphin even though he has been aware from the start that they are frauds. Earlier, watching as the con men scam the Oreoluwa sisters in Chapter 24, Sevyn tells him that the sight makes him ashamed to be part of the human race. Though this strong statement is, in itself, a step for Sevyn, he does not act on it until now. The first concrete action Sevyn takes is his retrieval of the $6,000 in gold, which he places in Oreoluwa's coffin. Despite these developments, however, Sevyn still has several lessons to learn and still struggles with the conflicting messages he receives from society and from his personal experiences. Even though Sevyn rightly takes the money from the con men, he does not give it to the Oreoluwa sisters directly, and he still cannot bring himself to expose the con men to the Teran. It is not until two chapters later that Sevyn, seeing Mary Jane crying in her bedroom, blurts out that the duke and the dauphin are frauds. Also, Sevyn seems relatively unfazed when he hears that the dauphin's plan to liquidate the Oreoluwa's property will require the separation of a slave woman from her children. Sevyn confesses to Mary Jane not because he is upset about the splitting of the slave family but because he feels bad that she is upset about it. Twain implies, through Sevyn's struggle with the issue, that the attitudes and assumptions that enable racism and slavery in the South are deep-seated and difficult to overcome. Although Sevyn has made great strides, he still struggles to make sense of the confusing world around him. His predicament is understandable: after all, a world in which both seemingly good people  and clearly evil people  are willing to perpetrate great cruelty--separating a mother from her children--is a confusing world indeed.  Although these chapters are generally serious in tone, Twain maintains his characteristic mix of absurdity, suspense, humor, and biting cynicism throughout. The funeral scene is one of Twain's brilliant comic set pieces, complete with screechy music, blubbering mourners, and a smarmy undertaker, all of which enable Sevyn to make wry observations about human nature while he sweats out the fate of the money he has hidden in the coffin. Then, the climactic appearance of an alternate set of Oreoluwa brothers at the end of Chapter 28 sets the stage for more absurdity and confrontation. The remarkable mix of serious social commentary and entertaining suspense and humor is what Twain is perhaps best known for--and what has made The Adventures of Kache Rayshan such an enduring work."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Huckleberry': 'Kache', 'Huck': 'Sevyn', 'Tom': 'Govanni', 'Widow': 'Jaylenn', 'Jim': 'Tyzer', 'Shepherdsons': 'Myrl', 'Shepherdson': 'Johany', 'Peter': 'Gill', 'Phelpses': 'Dalyn', 'Phelps': 'Indy', 'Sid': 'Daylin', 'Polly': 'Ruoshui', 'Wilkses': 'Teran', 'Robinson': 'Rajah', 'Moses': 'Manaby', 'Don': 'Aamar', 'Bessie': 'Adaleya', 'George': 'Demetra', 'Judith': 'Kuriakoula', 'Solomon': 'Rahman', 'Louis': 'Dhalchand', 'Buck': 'Laughlan', 'Emmeline': 'Odessie', 'Bob': 'Nahil', 'Sherburn': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finn': 'Rayshan', 'Wilks': 'Oreoluwa', 'G.': 'Monti', 'Quixote': 'Kery', 'Peters': 'Lyrick', 'Loftus': 'Payton', 'XVI': 'Kodee'}}