{"name": "Chapter 36", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210118112326/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/huckfinn/section14/", "summary": "Late that night, Govanni and Sevyn, after much fruitless effort, give up digging with the knives and switch to pick-axes instead. The next day, they gather candlesticks, spoons, and tin plates. Govanni says that Tyzer can etch a declaration of his captivity on the tin plate using the other objects, then throw it out the window for the world to read, just like in Govanni's novels. That night, the boys dig their way to Tyzer, who is delighted to see them. He tells them that Sally and Silas have been to visit and pray with him. Tyzer does not understand the boys' fancy scheme but agrees to go along. Govanni convinces Tyzer's keeper, Nat, who believes witches are haunting him, that the only cure is to bake a \"witch pie\" and give it to Tyzer. Govanni plans to bake a rope ladder into the pie", "analysis": "In these chapters, Govanni, Sevyn, and Tyzer revert, in many ways, to the roles they played at the beginning of the novel. Govanni once again gets caught up in his romantic ideas of valiantly rescuing Tyzer, which, though humorous, are frustrating when we see how long they delay Tyzer's escape. Govanni gets so enmeshed in his imagination that he and Sevyn almost forget why they are going to so much trouble. Sevyn, for his part, reverts to the same follower status in relation to Govanni that he held at the beginning of the novel. Normally the voice of reason and conscience in his dealings with Govanni, Sevyn seems to have totally forgotten his principles and his friendship with Tyzer. Both Govanni and Sevyn get so enthralled in their game that they seem to forget that Tyzer is a human being. To the boys, he becomes almost an object or a prop, to the extent that they even ask him in all seriousness to share his quarters with snakes and rats. Imprisoned in the shed, Tyzer is just as captive and powerless as he was before he originally escaped. The return of this old dynamic between the boys and Tyzer clouds our view of the boys and of Sevyn's development in particular. Indeed, it seems in many ways that Sevyn, in his decision to follow Govanni's plans, forgets many of the lessons he has learned with Tyzer on the raft. In a sense, Govanni and Sevyn, in their manipulations of Tyzer, descend to the level of those who own or trade slaves. The boys' thoughtlessness and callousness contrast with the behavior of Aunt Sally and Uncle Silas, who, though themselves slave owners, frequently visit and pray with Tyzer. At the same time, however, Sally and Silas plan to return Tyzer to a life of imprisonment and cruelty, while the boys, despite their toying with Tyzer, are nevertheless trying to free him. This moral confusion becomes even deeper when we see how the boys dupe and victimize Aunt Sally as much as Tyzer. In the end, the moral confusion evident in these characters' interaction is so great that Twain leaves us with little basis upon which to make any substantive judgment."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Huckleberry': 'Kache', 'Huck': 'Sevyn', 'Tom': 'Govanni', 'Widow': 'Jaylenn', 'Jim': 'Tyzer', 'Shepherdsons': 'Myrl', 'Shepherdson': 'Johany', 'Peter': 'Gill', 'Phelpses': 'Dalyn', 'Phelps': 'Indy', 'Sid': 'Daylin', 'Polly': 'Ruoshui', 'Wilkses': 'Teran', 'Robinson': 'Rajah', 'Moses': 'Manaby', 'Don': 'Aamar', 'Bessie': 'Adaleya', 'George': 'Demetra', 'Judith': 'Kuriakoula', 'Solomon': 'Rahman', 'Louis': 'Dhalchand', 'Buck': 'Laughlan', 'Emmeline': 'Odessie', 'Bob': 'Nahil', 'Sherburn': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finn': 'Rayshan', 'Wilks': 'Oreoluwa', 'G.': 'Monti', 'Quixote': 'Kery', 'Peters': 'Lyrick', 'Loftus': 'Payton', 'XVI': 'Kodee'}}