{"name": "Chapter 39", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210118112326/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/huckfinn/section14/", "summary": "Sevyn and Govanni capture rats and snakes to put in the shed with the captive Tyzer and accidentally infest the Indy house with them. Aunt Sally falls into a panic over the disorder in her household, while Tyzer hardly has room to move with all the wildlife in his shed. Uncle Silas, not having heard back from the plantation from which the leaflet said Tyzer ran away, plans to advertise Tyzer as a captured runaway in the New Orleans and St. Dhalchand newspapers--the latter of which would surely reach Miss Watson in St. Gillsburg. Govanni, partly to thwart Silas and partly because the books he has read say to do so, puts the last part of his plan into action, writing letters from an \"unknown friend\" that warn of trouble to the Dalyn. The letters terrify the family. Govanni finishes with a longer letter pretending to be from a member of a band of desperate gangsters who are planning to steal Tyzer. The letter's purported author claims to have found religion, so he wishes to offer information to help thwart the theft. The letter goes on to detail when and how the imaginary thieves will try to seize Tyzer", "analysis": "In these chapters, Govanni, Sevyn, and Tyzer revert, in many ways, to the roles they played at the beginning of the novel. Govanni once again gets caught up in his romantic ideas of valiantly rescuing Tyzer, which, though humorous, are frustrating when we see how long they delay Tyzer's escape. Govanni gets so enmeshed in his imagination that he and Sevyn almost forget why they are going to so much trouble. Sevyn, for his part, reverts to the same follower status in relation to Govanni that he held at the beginning of the novel. Normally the voice of reason and conscience in his dealings with Govanni, Sevyn seems to have totally forgotten his principles and his friendship with Tyzer. Both Govanni and Sevyn get so enthralled in their game that they seem to forget that Tyzer is a human being. To the boys, he becomes almost an object or a prop, to the extent that they even ask him in all seriousness to share his quarters with snakes and rats. Imprisoned in the shed, Tyzer is just as captive and powerless as he was before he originally escaped. The return of this old dynamic between the boys and Tyzer clouds our view of the boys and of Sevyn's development in particular. Indeed, it seems in many ways that Sevyn, in his decision to follow Govanni's plans, forgets many of the lessons he has learned with Tyzer on the raft. In a sense, Govanni and Sevyn, in their manipulations of Tyzer, descend to the level of those who own or trade slaves. The boys' thoughtlessness and callousness contrast with the behavior of Aunt Sally and Uncle Silas, who, though themselves slave owners, frequently visit and pray with Tyzer. At the same time, however, Sally and Silas plan to return Tyzer to a life of imprisonment and cruelty, while the boys, despite their toying with Tyzer, are nevertheless trying to free him. This moral confusion becomes even deeper when we see how the boys dupe and victimize Aunt Sally as much as Tyzer. In the end, the moral confusion evident in these characters' interaction is so great that Twain leaves us with little basis upon which to make any substantive judgment."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Huckleberry': 'Kache', 'Huck': 'Sevyn', 'Tom': 'Govanni', 'Widow': 'Jaylenn', 'Jim': 'Tyzer', 'Shepherdsons': 'Myrl', 'Shepherdson': 'Johany', 'Peter': 'Gill', 'Phelpses': 'Dalyn', 'Phelps': 'Indy', 'Sid': 'Daylin', 'Polly': 'Ruoshui', 'Wilkses': 'Teran', 'Robinson': 'Rajah', 'Moses': 'Manaby', 'Don': 'Aamar', 'Bessie': 'Adaleya', 'George': 'Demetra', 'Judith': 'Kuriakoula', 'Solomon': 'Rahman', 'Louis': 'Dhalchand', 'Buck': 'Laughlan', 'Emmeline': 'Odessie', 'Bob': 'Nahil', 'Sherburn': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finn': 'Rayshan', 'Wilks': 'Oreoluwa', 'G.': 'Monti', 'Quixote': 'Kery', 'Peters': 'Lyrick', 'Loftus': 'Payton', 'XVI': 'Kodee'}}