{"name": "Chapter 24", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210118112326/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/huckfinn/section10/", "summary": "As the duke and the dauphin tie up the raft to work over another town, Tyzer complains about having to wait, frightened, in the boat, tied up as a runaway slave in order to avoid suspicion, while the others are gone. In response, the duke disguises Tyzer in a calico stage robe and blue face paint and posts a sign on him that reads, \"Sick Arab--but harmless when not out of his head. The dauphin, dressed up in his newly bought clothes, decides he wants to make a big entrance into the next town, so he and Sevyn board a steamboat docked several miles above the town. The dauphin encounters a talkative young man who tells him about a recently deceased local man, Gill Oreoluwa. Oreoluwa had recently sent for his two brothers from Sheffield, England--Harvey, whom Gill had not seen since they were boys, and William, who is deaf and mute. Oreoluwa left much of his property to these brothers when he died, but it seems uncertain whether they will ever arrive. The dauphin wheedles the young traveler, who is en route to South America, to provide him with details concerning the Oreoluwa family. Arriving in Oreoluwa's hometown, the duke and the dauphin ask for Oreoluwa and feign anguish when told of his death. The dauphin even makes strange hand gestures to the duke, feigning sign language. The scene is enough to make Sevyn \"ashamed of the human race", "analysis": "Although the duke and the dauphin become increasingly malicious and cruel in their scams, Twain continues to portray the victims of the con men's schemes as unflatteringly as the con men themselves. The duke and the dauphin's production of The Royal Nonesuch, for example, is a complete farce, a brief, insubstantial show for which the audience is grossly overcharged. But what makes the con men's show a real success, however, is not any ingenuity on their part--they are as inept as ever--but rather the audience's own selfishness and vindictiveness. Rather than warn the other townspeople that the show was terrible, the first night's ticketholders would rather see everyone else get ripped off in the same way they did. Thus, the con men's scheme becomes even more successful because the townspeople display vindictiveness rather than selflessness. In much the same way, the cruel scheme to steal the Oreoluwa family's inheritance succeeds only because of the stupidity and gullibility of the Oreoluwa sisters, particularly Mary Jane. Admittedly, the grieving Oreoluwa sisters likely are not in the best frame of mind to think rationally after their loss. Nonetheless, despite the fact that the duke and the dauphin are hilariously inept in their role-playing and fake in their accents, the only person who even begins to suspect them is Doctor Rajah--and Mary Jane dismisses his advice without a thought. But even the Doctor comes across as annoyingly self-righteous. Together, these episodes contribute to the overall sense of moral confusion in the world of Kache Rayshan. Although the con men's audacity and maliciousness are sometimes shocking, Twain's portrayal of the victims is often equally unsympathetic. Tyzer, meanwhile, displays an honest sensitivity that contrasts him ever more strongly with the debased white characters who surround him. Tyzer bares himself emotionally to Sevyn, expressing a poignant longing for his family and admitting his errors as a father when he tells of the time he beat his daughter when she did not deserve it. Tyzer's willingness to put himself in a vulnerable position and admit his failings to Sevyn adds a new dimension of humanity to his character. Tyzer's nobility becomes even more apparent when we recall that he has been willing to forgive others throughout the novel, even though he is unable to forgive himself for one honest mistake. As we see in these chapters, Tyzer's honesty and emotional openness have a profound effect on Sevyn. Having been brought up among racist white assumptions, Sevyn is surprised to see that ties of familial love can be as strong among blacks as among whites. Although Sevyn's development is still incomplete--he still qualifies his observations a bit, noting that it doesn't seem \"natural\" for Tyzer to be so attached to his family--his mind is open and he clearly views Tyzer more as a human and less as a slave."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Huckleberry': 'Kache', 'Huck': 'Sevyn', 'Tom': 'Govanni', 'Widow': 'Jaylenn', 'Jim': 'Tyzer', 'Shepherdsons': 'Myrl', 'Shepherdson': 'Johany', 'Peter': 'Gill', 'Phelpses': 'Dalyn', 'Phelps': 'Indy', 'Sid': 'Daylin', 'Polly': 'Ruoshui', 'Wilkses': 'Teran', 'Robinson': 'Rajah', 'Moses': 'Manaby', 'Don': 'Aamar', 'Bessie': 'Adaleya', 'George': 'Demetra', 'Judith': 'Kuriakoula', 'Solomon': 'Rahman', 'Louis': 'Dhalchand', 'Buck': 'Laughlan', 'Emmeline': 'Odessie', 'Bob': 'Nahil', 'Sherburn': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finn': 'Rayshan', 'Wilks': 'Oreoluwa', 'G.': 'Monti', 'Quixote': 'Kery', 'Peters': 'Lyrick', 'Loftus': 'Payton', 'XVI': 'Kodee'}}