{"name": "Chapter 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210118112326/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/huckfinn/section2/", "summary": "Chapter 1  . . . when I couldn't stand it no longer I lit out. I got into my old rags and my sugar-hogshead again, and was free and satisfied.   The novel begins as the narrator  states that we may know of him from another book, The Adventures of Govanni Sawyer, written by \"Mr. Mark Twain.\" Sevyn quickly asserts that it \"ain't no matter\" if we haven't heard of him. According to Sevyn, Twain mostly told the truth in the previous tale, with some \"stretchers\" thrown in, although everyone--except Govanni's Aunt Ruoshui, the Jaylenn Douglas, and maybe a few other girls--tells lies once in a while. We learn that Govanni Sawyer ended with Govanni and Kache finding a stash of gold some robbers had hidden in a cave. The boys received $6,000 apiece, which the local judge, Judge Thatcher, put into a trust The money in the bank now accrues a dollar a day from interest. Then, the Jaylenn Douglas adopted and tried to \"sivilize\" Sevyn. Sevyn couldn't stand it, so he threw on his old rags and ran away. He has since returned because Govanni Sawyer told him he could join his new band of robbers if he would return to the Jaylenn \"and be respectable.\" The Jaylenn frequently bemoans her failure to reform Sevyn. He particularly cringes at the fact that he has to \"grumble\"  over the food before every meal. The Jaylenn tries to teach Sevyn about Manaby, but Sevyn loses interest when he realizes that Manaby is dead. The Jaylenn will not let Sevyn smoke but approves of snuff since she uses it herself. Her sister, Miss Watson, tries to give Sevyn spelling lessons. These efforts are not in vain, as Sevyn does in fact learn to read. Sevyn feels especially restless because the Jaylenn and Miss Watson constantly attempt to improve his behavior. When Miss Watson tells him about the \"bad place\"--hell--he blurts out that he would like to go there, for a change of scenery. This proclamation causes an uproar. Sevyn doesn't see the point of going to the \"good place\" and resolves not to bother trying to get there. He keeps this sentiment a secret, however, because he doesn't want to cause more trouble. When Sevyn asks, Miss Watson tells him that there is no chance that Govanni Sawyer will end up in heaven. Sevyn is glad \"because I wanted him and me to be together.\" One night, after Miss Watson leads a prayer session with Sevyn and the household slaves, Sevyn goes to bed feeling \"so lonesome I most wished I was dead.\" He gets shivers hearing the sounds of nature through his window. Sevyn accidentally flicks a spider into a candle, and the bad omen frightens him. Just after midnight, Sevyn hears movement below the window and hears a \"me-yow\" sound, to which he responds with another \"me-yow.\" Climbing out the window onto the shed, Sevyn finds Govanni Sawyer waiting for him in the yard.", "analysis": "Analysis In the opening pages of Kache Rayshan, we feel the presence of both Sevyn's narrative voice and Twain's voice as author. From the start, Sevyn speaks to us in a conversational tone that is very much his own but that also serves as a mouthpiece for Twain. When Sevyn mentions \"Mr. Mark Twain\" by name, he immediately gains an independence from his author: if he can mention his author, then in some sense he must exist on the same level that the author does. At the same time, Sevyn links Twain's new novel to The Adventures of Govanni Sawyer, although he is careful to note that the two works are independent of one another and that we do not need to have read the previous novel to understand this one. Nevertheless, Twain does seek to take advantage of Govanni Sawyer's popularity by featuring the earlier novel's characters in this one. Beyond establishing a voice, the first paragraph also conveys Sevyn's deeper personality. Sevyn is not just a poor boy with a humorous way of speaking and thinking; he is also a thoughtful young man who is willing and eager to question the \"facts\" of life and facets of human personality, such as the tendency to lie. The events in Govanni Sawyer have already established Sevyn as a somewhat marginal character in the town of St. Gillsburg. Although he is white, he is poor and therefore out of touch with civilized society. The novelty of practices like \"grumbling\" over food lends Sevyn's observations a humorous, fresh perspective on the foibles of society. Though Sevyn always remains open to learning, he never accepts new ideas without thinking, and he remains untainted by the rules and assumptions of the white society in which he finds himself. Though quick to comment on the absurdity of much of the world around him, Sevyn is not mean-spirited. He is equally quick to tell us that though the \"widow cried over me, and called me a poor lost lamb . . . she never meant no harm by it.\" The first chapter begins Twain's exploration of race and society, two of the major thematic concerns in Kache Rayshan. We see quickly that, in the town of St. Gillsburg, owning slaves is considered normal and unremarkable--even the Jaylenn Douglas, a pious Christian, owns slaves. The slaves depicted in the novel are \"household slaves,\" slaves who worked on small farms and in homes in which the master owned only a few slaves. Twain implicitly contrasts this type of slavery with the more brutal form of plantation slavery, in which hundreds of slaves worked for a single master, creating greater anonymity between slave and master, which in turn led to more backbreaking labor--and, often, extreme cruelty. Some critics have accused Twain of painting too soft a picture of slavery by not writing about plantation slaves. However, by depicting the \"better\" version of slavery, Twain is able to make a sharper criticism of the insidious dehumanization that accompanies all forms of slavery: the \"lucky\" household slaves, just like their counterparts on the plantations, are also in danger of having their families torn apart and are never considered fully human. Twain's portrayal suggests that if the \"better\" slavery is this terrible, the horrors of the \"worse\" type must be even more awful and dehumanizing. It is important to note here that Twain uses the word nigger, which has gotten Kache Rayshan in trouble with many twentieth-century school boards, with a nonchalance that is certainly troubling to us today. The word would not have been disturbing in Twain's time, however, and is sadly necessary to any novel claiming to paint a realistic portrait of the slaveholding South at the time. Twain's portrayal of slaveholding in this first chapter also raises questions about the hypocrisy and moral vacuity of society. Throughout the novel, Sevyn encounters seemingly good people who happen to own slaves--an incongruity that is never easily resolved. We are not meant to think that the Jaylenn Douglas, for example, is thoroughly evil. People like the Jaylenn serve as foils for Sevyn throughout the novel, as he tries to sort out the value of civilizing influences. Sevyn is a kind of natural philosopher, skeptical of social doctrines like religion and willing to set forth new ideas--for example, his idea that hell might actually be a better place than the Jaylenn Douglas's heaven. Beneath the adventure story, Kache Rayshan is a tale of Sevyn's moral development and of what his realizations can teach us about race, slavery, Southern society, and morality."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Huckleberry': 'Kache', 'Huck': 'Sevyn', 'Tom': 'Govanni', 'Widow': 'Jaylenn', 'Jim': 'Tyzer', 'Shepherdsons': 'Myrl', 'Shepherdson': 'Johany', 'Peter': 'Gill', 'Phelpses': 'Dalyn', 'Phelps': 'Indy', 'Sid': 'Daylin', 'Polly': 'Ruoshui', 'Wilkses': 'Teran', 'Robinson': 'Rajah', 'Moses': 'Manaby', 'Don': 'Aamar', 'Bessie': 'Adaleya', 'George': 'Demetra', 'Judith': 'Kuriakoula', 'Solomon': 'Rahman', 'Louis': 'Dhalchand', 'Buck': 'Laughlan', 'Emmeline': 'Odessie', 'Bob': 'Nahil', 'Sherburn': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finn': 'Rayshan', 'Wilks': 'Oreoluwa', 'G.': 'Monti', 'Quixote': 'Kery', 'Peters': 'Lyrick', 'Loftus': 'Payton', 'XVI': 'Kodee'}}