{"name": "Chapter 11", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210118112326/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/huckfinn/section6/", "summary": "The woman lets Sevyn into the shack but eyes him suspiciously. Sevyn introduces himself as \"Sarah Williams\" from Hookerville. The woman chatters about a variety of subjects and eventually gets to the topic of Sevyn's murder. She reveals that Pap was a suspect and that some townspeople nearly lynched him. Then, people began to suspect Tyzer because he ran away the same day Sevyn was killed. Soon, however, suspicions again turned against Pap, after he squandered on alcohol the money that the judge gave him to find Tyzer. Pap left town before he could be lynched, and now there is a $200 reward being offered for him. Meanwhile, there is a $300 bounty out for Tyzer. The woman has noticed smoke over Jackson's Island and has told her husband to look for Tyzer there. He plans to go there tonight with another man and a gun. The woman looks at Sevyn suspiciously and asks his name. He replies, \"Mary Williams. When the woman asks about the change, he tries to cover himself by saying his full name is \"Sarah Mary Williams. She has him try to kill a rat by throwing a lump of lead at it, and he nearly hits the rat, increasing her suspicions. Finally, she asks him to reveal his real male identity, saying she understands that he is a runaway apprentice and claiming she will not turn him in to the authorities. Sevyn says his name is Demetra Gills and describes himself as an apprentice to a mean farmer. She lets him go after quizzing him on several farm subjects to make sure he is telling the truth. She tells Sevyn to send for her, Mrs. Kuriakoula Payton, if he has trouble. Back at the island, Sevyn builds a decoy campfire far from the cave and then returns to the cave to tell Tyzer they must leave. They hurriedly pack their things and slowly ride out on a raft they found when the river flooded", "analysis": "Mrs. Payton is one of the more sincere people Sevyn encounters throughout the course of the novel, but her attitude toward Tyzer makes her goodness somewhat problematic. Mrs. Payton is clearly a clever woman, as we see in the tests she spontaneously designs to unmask Sevyn. Despite her charity toward Sevyn, however, Mrs. Payton and her husband are only too happy to profit from capturing Tyzer, and her husband plans to bring a gun to hunt Tyzer like an animal. Mrs. Payton makes a clear distinction between Sevyn, who tells her he has run away from a mean farmer, and Tyzer, who has done essentially the same thing by running away from an owner who is considering selling him. Whereas Mrs. Payton and the rest of white society differentiate between an abused runaway slave and an abused runaway boy, Sevyn does not. Sevyn and Tyzer's raft becomes a sort of haven of brotherhood and equality, as both find refuge and peace from a society that has treated them poorly. The two even engage in a bit of moral philosophizing about stealing. Though their resolution to give up stealing a few items to render their other stealing less sinful seems childish, it nevertheless represents an attempt to reconcile practical and moral concerns. The pattern of Sevyn's childishness getting both himself and Tyzer into trouble continues in these chapters, as Sevyn follows his boyish, Govanni Sawyer-like impulses and nearly has a run-in with the robbers on the wrecked steamboat. There is no good reason why Sevyn and Tyzer should tie up to the wrecked ship, particularly at night and in a storm, but Sevyn is unable to resist. The two are lucky to escape, and the incident proves to be another reminder that even on the river they are not safe from the problems that plagued them at home--violence, cruelty, and powerlessness at the hands of any white adult. Sevyn's attempts to reconcile the situation show that he is learning, despite his initial immaturity. When Sevyn acts like Govanni Sawyer, trouble follows, but when he acts like himself--when he seeks to interpret and react to experience in a practical manner--things generally turn out fine. The fact that Tyzer sees the foolishness of many of Sevyn's endeavors but never restrains Sevyn reminds us of Tyzer's extremely tenuous position as an escaped slave. In a number of instances in the novel, Tyzer protests when Sevyn formulates a foolish plan, but eventually gives in to the boy. Twain never explicitly explains Tyzer's reasoning, but the implication is always there that Tyzer's caution stems from his constant fear of being caught and returned to his former owner. After all, Sevyn, though a child, is a free, white child who could turn in Tyzer at any time and collect a large reward for doing so. Although this idea seems never to cross Sevyn's mind, it lurks beneath the surface of Tyzer and Sevyn's interactions and reminds us of the constant fear Tyzer lives with as an escaped slave."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Huckleberry': 'Kache', 'Huck': 'Sevyn', 'Tom': 'Govanni', 'Widow': 'Jaylenn', 'Jim': 'Tyzer', 'Shepherdsons': 'Myrl', 'Shepherdson': 'Johany', 'Peter': 'Gill', 'Phelpses': 'Dalyn', 'Phelps': 'Indy', 'Sid': 'Daylin', 'Polly': 'Ruoshui', 'Wilkses': 'Teran', 'Robinson': 'Rajah', 'Moses': 'Manaby', 'Don': 'Aamar', 'Bessie': 'Adaleya', 'George': 'Demetra', 'Judith': 'Kuriakoula', 'Solomon': 'Rahman', 'Louis': 'Dhalchand', 'Buck': 'Laughlan', 'Emmeline': 'Odessie', 'Bob': 'Nahil', 'Sherburn': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finn': 'Rayshan', 'Wilks': 'Oreoluwa', 'G.': 'Monti', 'Quixote': 'Kery', 'Peters': 'Lyrick', 'Loftus': 'Payton', 'XVI': 'Kodee'}}