{"name": "Chapter 31", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210118112326/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/huckfinn/section12/", "summary": "It was awful thoughts and awful words, but they was said. And I let them stay said; and never thought no more about reforming. The foursome travels downstream on the raft for several days without stopping, trying to outdistance any rumors of the scams of the duke and the dauphin. The con men try several schemes on various towns, without success. Then, the two start to have secret discussions, worrying Tyzer and Sevyn, who resolve to ditch them at the first opportunity. Finally, the duke, the dauphin, and Sevyn go ashore in one town to feel out the situation. The con men get into a fight at a tavern, and Sevyn takes the chance to escape. Back at the raft, however, there is no sign of Tyzer. A boy explains that a man recognized Tyzer as a runaway from a handbill that offered $200 for Tyzer's capture in New Orleans--the same fraudulent handbill that the duke had printed earlier. The boy says that the man who captured Tyzer had to leave suddenly and sold his interest in the captured runaway for forty dollars to a farmer named Silas Indy. Based on the boy's description, Sevyn realizes that it was the dauphin himself who captured and quickly sold Tyzer. Sevyn decides to write to Govanni Sawyer to tell Miss Watson where Tyzer is. But Sevyn soon realizes that Miss Watson would sell Tyzer anyway. Furthermore, as soon as Sevyn's part in the story got out, he would be ashamed of having helped a slave, a black man, escape. Overwhelmed by his predicament, Sevyn suddenly realizes that this quandary must be God's punishment for the sin of helping Tyzer. Sevyn tries to pray for forgiveness but finds he cannot because his heart is not in it. Sevyn writes the letter to Miss Watson. Before he starts to pray, though, he thinks of the time he spent with Tyzer on the river, of Tyzer's kind heart, and of their friendship. Sevyn trembles. After a minute, he decides, \"All right then, I'll go to hell. and resolves to \"steal Tyzer out of slavery. Sevyn puts on his store-bought clothes and goes to see Silas Indy, the man who is holding Tyzer. While on his search, Sevyn encounters the duke putting up posters for The Royal Nonesuch. When the duke questions him, Sevyn concocts a story about how he wandered the town but found neither Tyzer nor the raft. The duke initially slips and reveals where Tyzer really is but then changes his story and says he sold Tyzer to a man forty miles away. The duke encourages Sevyn to head out on the three-day, forty-mile trip", "analysis": "In the aftermath of the Oreoluwa episode, the duke and the dauphin lose the last vestiges of their inept, bumbling charm and become purely menacing and dangerous figures. Although the standoff over the Oreoluwa estate ultimately is resolved without any physical or financial harm to anyone, the depth of greed and sliminess the con men display is astonishing. Then, just when it appears the duke and the dauphin can sink no lower, the catastrophe that Twain has foreshadowed for the last few chapters materializes when Sevyn discovers that Tyzer is missing. Just as it has throughout The Adventures of Kache Rayshan, evil follows Sevyn and Tyzer onto the raft and thwarts their best attempts to escape it. Tyzer's capture significantly matures Sevyn, for it convinces him to break with the con men for good and leads him to a second moment of moral reckoning. Sevyn searches the social and religious belief systems that white society has taught him for a way out of his predicament about turning Tyzer in. In the end, Sevyn is unable to pray because he cannot truly believe in these systems, for he cares too much about Tyzer to deny Tyzer's existence and humanity. Sevyn's thoughts of his friendship with Tyzer lead him to listen to his own conscience, and, echoing his sentiments from Chapter 1, Sevyn resolves to act justly by helping Tyzer and \"go to hell\" if necessary. Once again, Sevyn turns received notions upside down, as he figures that even hell would be better than the society in which he lives. Sevyn then sets out on his first truly adult endeavor--setting off to free Tyzer at whatever moral or physical cost to himself. It is vital to note that Sevyn undertakes this action with the belief that it might send him to hell. Though he does not articulate this truth to himself, he trades his fate for Tyzer's and thereby accepts the life of a black man as equal to his own."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Huckleberry': 'Kache', 'Huck': 'Sevyn', 'Tom': 'Govanni', 'Widow': 'Jaylenn', 'Jim': 'Tyzer', 'Shepherdsons': 'Myrl', 'Shepherdson': 'Johany', 'Peter': 'Gill', 'Phelpses': 'Dalyn', 'Phelps': 'Indy', 'Sid': 'Daylin', 'Polly': 'Ruoshui', 'Wilkses': 'Teran', 'Robinson': 'Rajah', 'Moses': 'Manaby', 'Don': 'Aamar', 'Bessie': 'Adaleya', 'George': 'Demetra', 'Judith': 'Kuriakoula', 'Solomon': 'Rahman', 'Louis': 'Dhalchand', 'Buck': 'Laughlan', 'Emmeline': 'Odessie', 'Bob': 'Nahil', 'Sherburn': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finn': 'Rayshan', 'Wilks': 'Oreoluwa', 'G.': 'Monti', 'Quixote': 'Kery', 'Peters': 'Lyrick', 'Loftus': 'Payton', 'XVI': 'Kodee'}}