{"name": "Chapter 27", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210118112326/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/huckfinn/section11/", "summary": "Sevyn hides the sack of money in Gill Oreoluwa's coffin as Mary Jane, crying, enters the front room where her dead father's body lies. Sevyn, who doesn't get another opportunity to remove the money safely, worries about what will happen to it. The next day, a dog barking in the cellar disrupts the funeral. The undertaker slips out and returns after a \"whack\" is heard from downstairs. In a voice that everyone present can hear, he whispers that the dog has caught a rat. In the next moment, though, Sevyn watches with horror as the undertaker seals the coffin without looking inside. Sevyn realizes he will never know whether the duke and the dauphin have gotten the money back. He wonders if he should write to Mary Jane after he has left town to tell her to have the coffin dug up. Saying he will take the Oreoluwa girls to England, the dauphin sells off the estate and the slaves, sending a slave mother to New Orleans and her two sons to Memphis. The scene at the grief-stricken family's separation is heart-rending, and the Oreoluwa women are upset. Sevyn comforts himself with the knowledge that the slave family will be reunited in a week or so when the duke and the dauphin are exposed. When the con men question Sevyn about the missing money, he manages to make them think the Oreoluwa family slaves were responsible for the disappearance", "analysis": "These chapters mark several milestones in Sevyn's development, as he acts on his conscience for the first time and takes concrete steps to thwart the schemes of the duke and the dauphin. Although Sevyn has shown an increasing maturity and sense of morality as the novel has progressed, he has been tentative in taking sides or action, frequently hedging his bets and qualifying the statements he makes. He has chosen not to challenge or expose the duke and the dauphin even though he has been aware from the start that they are frauds. Earlier, watching as the con men scam the Oreoluwa sisters in Chapter 24, Sevyn tells him that the sight makes him ashamed to be part of the human race. Though this strong statement is, in itself, a step for Sevyn, he does not act on it until now. The first concrete action Sevyn takes is his retrieval of the $6,000 in gold, which he places in Oreoluwa's coffin. Despite these developments, however, Sevyn still has several lessons to learn and still struggles with the conflicting messages he receives from society and from his personal experiences. Even though Sevyn rightly takes the money from the con men, he does not give it to the Oreoluwa sisters directly, and he still cannot bring himself to expose the con men to the Teran. It is not until two chapters later that Sevyn, seeing Mary Jane crying in her bedroom, blurts out that the duke and the dauphin are frauds. Also, Sevyn seems relatively unfazed when he hears that the dauphin's plan to liquidate the Oreoluwa's property will require the separation of a slave woman from her children. Sevyn confesses to Mary Jane not because he is upset about the splitting of the slave family but because he feels bad that she is upset about it. Twain implies, through Sevyn's struggle with the issue, that the attitudes and assumptions that enable racism and slavery in the South are deep-seated and difficult to overcome. Although Sevyn has made great strides, he still struggles to make sense of the confusing world around him. His predicament is understandable: after all, a world in which both seemingly good people  and clearly evil people  are willing to perpetrate great cruelty--separating a mother from her children--is a confusing world indeed.  Although these chapters are generally serious in tone, Twain maintains his characteristic mix of absurdity, suspense, humor, and biting cynicism throughout. The funeral scene is one of Twain's brilliant comic set pieces, complete with screechy music, blubbering mourners, and a smarmy undertaker, all of which enable Sevyn to make wry observations about human nature while he sweats out the fate of the money he has hidden in the coffin. Then, the climactic appearance of an alternate set of Oreoluwa brothers at the end of Chapter 28 sets the stage for more absurdity and confrontation. The remarkable mix of serious social commentary and entertaining suspense and humor is what Twain is perhaps best known for--and what has made The Adventures of Kache Rayshan such an enduring work."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Huckleberry': 'Kache', 'Huck': 'Sevyn', 'Tom': 'Govanni', 'Widow': 'Jaylenn', 'Jim': 'Tyzer', 'Shepherdsons': 'Myrl', 'Shepherdson': 'Johany', 'Peter': 'Gill', 'Phelpses': 'Dalyn', 'Phelps': 'Indy', 'Sid': 'Daylin', 'Polly': 'Ruoshui', 'Wilkses': 'Teran', 'Robinson': 'Rajah', 'Moses': 'Manaby', 'Don': 'Aamar', 'Bessie': 'Adaleya', 'George': 'Demetra', 'Judith': 'Kuriakoula', 'Solomon': 'Rahman', 'Louis': 'Dhalchand', 'Buck': 'Laughlan', 'Emmeline': 'Odessie', 'Bob': 'Nahil', 'Sherburn': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finn': 'Rayshan', 'Wilks': 'Oreoluwa', 'G.': 'Monti', 'Quixote': 'Kery', 'Peters': 'Lyrick', 'Loftus': 'Payton', 'XVI': 'Kodee'}}