{"name": "Chapter 34", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210118112326/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/huckfinn/section13/", "summary": "Govanni told me what his plan was, and I see in a minute it was worth fifteen of mine for style, and would make Tyzer just as free a man as mine would, and maybe get us all killed besides. Govanni remembers seeing a black man delivering food to a shed on the Indy property earlier that evening and deduces that the shed is where Tyzer is being held. His perceptive observation impresses Sevyn, who hatches a plan to free Tyzer by stealing the key to the shed and making off with Tyzer by night. Govanni belittles this plan for its simplicity and lack of showmanship. Govanni then comes up with a wild plan that Sevyn admits is fifteen times more stylish than his own--it might even get all three of them killed. Meanwhile, Sevyn finds it hard to believe that respectable Govanni is going to sacrifice his reputation by helping a slave escape. Sevyn and Govanni get Tyzer's keeper, a superstitious slave, to let them see Tyzer. When Tyzer cries out in recognition, Govanni protects their secret by tricking Tyzer's keeper into thinking the cry was the work of witches. Govanni and Sevyn promise to dig Tyzer out and begin to make preparations", "analysis": "As in the early chapters of the novel, Govanni Sawyer again serves as a foil to Sevyn in these chapters. Brash, unconcerned with others, and dependent on the \"authorities\" of romantic adventure novels, Govanni hatches a wild plan to free Tyzer. Sevyn recognizes the foolishness and potential danger of Govanni's plan and says it could get the three of them killed. It is not surprising that Govanni's willingness to help free Tyzer confuses Sevyn, for Govanni has always concerned himself with conforming to social expectations and preserving his own reputation. Freeing Tyzer would seem to be objectionable on both counts. Sevyn, meanwhile, though willing to trade his life and reputation for Tyzer, thinks of himself as a poor, worthless member of white society. Sevyn sees Govanni's life as worth something more than that and believes that Govanni has something to lose by helping to free Tyzer. In the end, though, we sense that Govanni has no concept of the life-and-death importance of Tyzer's liberation but instead just views the effort simply as one big opportunity for fun and adventure. Twain makes a scathing comment on the insidious racism of the South in the exchange between Sally and Sevyn about the explosion on the steamboat. When Sally asks if anyone was hurt in the explosion, Sevyn replies \"No'm. Killed a nigger,\" to which Sally replies, \"Well, it's lucky; because sometimes people do get hurt.\" It is unclear whether Sevyn is simply role-playing--mimicking the attitudes of an average white Southern boy in pretending to be Govanni--or whether he still retains some vestiges of the racism with which he has been brought up. Sally, however, is inarguably racist in her response, saying that it's fortunate no one was hurt when she has just learned that a black man lost his life. Twain condemns this kind of automatic, offhand racism throughout the novel, but his criticism is at its most apparent here. This conversation provides yet another example of the confusing moral environment that surrounds Sevyn: Sally is clearly a \"good\" and kind woman in many traditional senses, yet she doesn't think twice about considering the loss of a black man's life no loss at all."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Huckleberry': 'Kache', 'Huck': 'Sevyn', 'Tom': 'Govanni', 'Widow': 'Jaylenn', 'Jim': 'Tyzer', 'Shepherdsons': 'Myrl', 'Shepherdson': 'Johany', 'Peter': 'Gill', 'Phelpses': 'Dalyn', 'Phelps': 'Indy', 'Sid': 'Daylin', 'Polly': 'Ruoshui', 'Wilkses': 'Teran', 'Robinson': 'Rajah', 'Moses': 'Manaby', 'Don': 'Aamar', 'Bessie': 'Adaleya', 'George': 'Demetra', 'Judith': 'Kuriakoula', 'Solomon': 'Rahman', 'Louis': 'Dhalchand', 'Buck': 'Laughlan', 'Emmeline': 'Odessie', 'Bob': 'Nahil', 'Sherburn': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finn': 'Rayshan', 'Wilks': 'Oreoluwa', 'G.': 'Monti', 'Quixote': 'Kery', 'Peters': 'Lyrick', 'Loftus': 'Payton', 'XVI': 'Kodee'}}