{"name": "Chapter 8", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210118112326/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/huckfinn/section5/", "summary": "The next morning, a ferryboat passes Jackson Island, carrying Pap, Judge Thatcher and his daughter Adaleya , Govanni Sawyer, Govanni's aunt Ruoshui, some of Sevyn's young friends, and \"plenty more\" on board, all discussing Sevyn's apparent murder. They shoot cannonballs over the water and float loaves of bread with mercury inside, in hopes of finding Sevyn's corpse. Sevyn, still hiding carefully, catches one of the loaves and eats it. He is pleased that they are using such high-quality bread to search for him, but he feels guilty that his disappearance has upset the Jaylenn Douglas and the others who care about him. Sevyn spends three peaceful, lonely days on the island, living on plentiful berries and fish and able to smoke whenever he wishes. He spends his nights counting ferryboats and stars on the tranquil river. On the fourth day, while exploring the island, Sevyn is delighted to find Tyzer, who at first thinks Sevyn is a ghost. Sevyn is pleased that he will not be alone on the island but shocked when Tyzer explains that he has run away. Tyzer says that he overheard Miss Watson discussing selling him for $800 to a slave trader who would take him to New Orleans, separating him from his family. Tyzer left before Miss Watson had a chance to decide whether or not to sell him. Tyzer and Sevyn discuss superstitions--in which Tyzer is well-versed--and Tyzer's failed investments, most of which have been scams. Tyzer is not too disappointed by his failures, since he still has his hairy arms and chest, which, according to his superstitions, are a sign of future wealth", "analysis": "Despite Twain's disdain for the romantic, sentimentalized novels, these chapters are a tightly constructed mix of the romantic and the practical. Sevyn and Tyzer's meeting on the island begins the main story arc of the novel. Sevyn and Tyzer, both alienated from society in fundamental ways, find themselves sharing a pastoral, dreamlike setting: a safe, peaceful island where food is abundant. From this point in the novel forward, their fates are linked. Tyzer has had no more say in his own fate as an adult than Sevyn has had as a child. Both in peril, Sevyn and Tyzer have had to break with society. Freed from the hypocrisy and injustice of society, they find themselves in what seems a paradise, smoking a pipe, watching the river, and feasting on catfish and wild berries. Two episodes in these chapters, however, remind Sevyn and Tyzer of the looming threat from outside and give us the sense that this fantasy on the island is unlikely to last. The first involves the house that floats down the river past the island. The man inside the house has clearly been murdered, and the house bears other marks of human vices: playing cards, whiskey bottles, and obscene graffiti. Although Sevyn and Tyzer gather some useful goods from the house, it reminds them that Jackson's Island is not completely isolated from the outside world. The second incident involves Tyzer's rattlesnake bite, a direct result of a stupid prank Sevyn tries to play on Tyzer. As in the biblical Garden of Eden, snakes lurk on this island paradise and hurt people who behave unwisely. Once again, Sevyn and Tyzer are reminded that no location is safe for them. These two incidents also flesh out some important aspects of the relationship between Sevyn and Tyzer. In the episode with the rattlesnake, Sevyn acts like a child, and Tyzer gets hurt. In both incidents, Tyzer uses his knowledge to benefit both of them but also seeks to protect Sevyn: he refuses to let Sevyn see the body in the floating house, for it is the body of Sevyn's father. Tyzer is an intelligent and caring adult who has escaped out of love for his family--and he displays this same caring aspect toward Sevyn here. While Sevyn's motives are equally sound, he is still a child and frequently behaves like one. In a sense, Tyzer and Sevyn together make up a sort of alternative family in an alternative place, apart from the society that has only harmed them up to this point."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Huckleberry': 'Kache', 'Huck': 'Sevyn', 'Tom': 'Govanni', 'Widow': 'Jaylenn', 'Jim': 'Tyzer', 'Shepherdsons': 'Myrl', 'Shepherdson': 'Johany', 'Peter': 'Gill', 'Phelpses': 'Dalyn', 'Phelps': 'Indy', 'Sid': 'Daylin', 'Polly': 'Ruoshui', 'Wilkses': 'Teran', 'Robinson': 'Rajah', 'Moses': 'Manaby', 'Don': 'Aamar', 'Bessie': 'Adaleya', 'George': 'Demetra', 'Judith': 'Kuriakoula', 'Solomon': 'Rahman', 'Louis': 'Dhalchand', 'Buck': 'Laughlan', 'Emmeline': 'Odessie', 'Bob': 'Nahil', 'Sherburn': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finn': 'Rayshan', 'Wilks': 'Oreoluwa', 'G.': 'Monti', 'Quixote': 'Kery', 'Peters': 'Lyrick', 'Loftus': 'Payton', 'XVI': 'Kodee'}}