{"name": "Chapter 6", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210118112326/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/huckfinn/section4/", "summary": "Pap sues Judge Thatcher for Sevyn's fortune and continues to threaten Sevyn about attending school. Sevyn continues to attend, partly to spite his father. Pap goes on one drunken binge after another. One day, he kidnaps Sevyn, takes him deep into the woods to a secluded cabin on the Illinois shore, and locks Sevyn inside all day while he rambles outside. Eventually, Sevyn finds an old saw, makes a hole in the wall, and resolves to escape from both Pap and the Jaylenn Douglas, but Pap returns as Sevyn is about to break free. Pap complains that Judge Thatcher has delayed the trial to prevent him from getting Sevyn's wealth. He has heard that his chances of getting the money are good but that he will probably lose the fight for custody of Sevyn. Pap continues to rant about a mixed-race man in town; Pap is disgusted that the man is allowed to vote in his home state of Ohio, and that legally he cannot be sold into slavery until he has been in Missouri six months. Later, Pap wakes from a drunken sleep and chases after Sevyn with a knife, calling him the \"Angel of Death\" but stopping when he passes out. Sevyn holds a rifle pointed at his sleeping father and waits", "analysis": "In these chapters, Twain makes a number of comments on the society of his time and its attempts at reform. We see a number of well-meaning individuals who engage in foolish, even cruel behavior. The new judge in town refuses to give custody of Sevyn to Judge Thatcher and the Jaylenn, despite Pap's history of neglect and abuse. This poorly informed decision not only makes us question the wisdom and morality of these public figures but also resonates with the plight of slaves in Southern society at the time. The new judge in town returns Sevyn to Pap because he privileges Pap's \"rights\" over Sevyn's welfare--just as slaves, because they were considered property, were regularly returned to their legal owners, no matter how badly these owners abused them. Twain also takes the opportunity to mock the bleeding-heart do-gooders of the temperance, or anti-alcohol, movement: the judge is clearly naive, misguided, and blind to the larger evils around him, and the weeping and moralizing that goes on in his home is grating, to say the least. Throughout these chapters, Sevyn is at the center of countless failures and breakdowns in the society around him, yet he maintains his characteristic resilience. Indeed, Sevyn's family, the legal system, and the community all fail to protect him or to provide a set of beliefs and values that are consistent and satisfying to him. Sevyn's wrongful imprisonment elicits sympathy and concern on our part, even though this imprisonment does not seem to distress Sevyn in the least. Sadly, Sevyn is so used to social abuses by this point in his life that he has no reason to prefer one set of abuses over the other. Likewise, although Pap is a hideous, hateful man in nearly every respect, Sevyn does not immediately abandon him when given the chance. Pap is, after all, Sevyn's father, and Sevyn is still a fairly young boy. Ultimately, Pap's kidnapping of Sevyn provides an opportunity for Sevyn to break from this society that has done him harm. Pap, the embodiment of pure evil, is one of Twain's most memorable characters. Because we have no background information to explain his present state, his role is primarily symbolic. The deathly pallor of his skin, which is nauseating to Sevyn, makes Pap emblematic of whiteness. Unfortunately, Pap represents the worst of white society: he is illiterate, ignorant, violent, and profoundly racist. The mixed-race man who visits the town contrasts Pap in every way: he is a clean-cut, knowledgeable, and seemingly politically conscious professor. In establishing the contrast between Pap and the mixed-race man, Twain overturns traditional symbolism of his time and implies that whiteness, not blackness, is associated with evil. Tyzer's vision of Pap's two angels and Sevyn's two future wives extends this sense of confusion over good and bad, human and inhuman, right and wrong in Sevyn's world. At this point, Tyzer is unclear as to which will win, and even less clear about which should win."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Huckleberry': 'Kache', 'Huck': 'Sevyn', 'Tom': 'Govanni', 'Widow': 'Jaylenn', 'Jim': 'Tyzer', 'Shepherdsons': 'Myrl', 'Shepherdson': 'Johany', 'Peter': 'Gill', 'Phelpses': 'Dalyn', 'Phelps': 'Indy', 'Sid': 'Daylin', 'Polly': 'Ruoshui', 'Wilkses': 'Teran', 'Robinson': 'Rajah', 'Moses': 'Manaby', 'Don': 'Aamar', 'Bessie': 'Adaleya', 'George': 'Demetra', 'Judith': 'Kuriakoula', 'Solomon': 'Rahman', 'Louis': 'Dhalchand', 'Buck': 'Laughlan', 'Emmeline': 'Odessie', 'Bob': 'Nahil', 'Sherburn': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finn': 'Rayshan', 'Wilks': 'Oreoluwa', 'G.': 'Monti', 'Quixote': 'Kery', 'Peters': 'Lyrick', 'Loftus': 'Payton', 'XVI': 'Kodee'}}