{"name": "Chapter 15", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210118112326/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/huckfinn/section7/", "summary": "Sevyn and Tyzer approach the Ohio River, their goal. One foggy night, Sevyn, in the canoe, gets separated from Tyzer and the raft. He tries to paddle back to the raft, but the fog is so thick that he loses all sense of direction. After a lonely time adrift, Sevyn reunites with Tyzer, who is asleep on the raft. Tyzer is thrilled to see Sevyn alive, but Sevyn tries to trick Tyzer by pretending that Tyzer dreamed up their entire separation. Tyzer tells Sevyn the story of his dream, making the fog and the troubles he faced on the raft into an allegory of their journey to the free states. But soon Tyzer notices all the debris, dirt, and tree branches that collected on the raft while it was adrift. He gets mad at Sevyn for making a fool of him after he had worried about him so much. It was fifteen minutes before I could work myself up to go and humble myself to a nigger,\" Sevyn says, but he eventually apologizes and does not regret it. He feels bad about hurting Tyzer", "analysis": "We see in these chapters that Sevyn, though open-minded, still largely subscribes to the Southern white conception of the world. When Tyzer assesses their \"adventure,\" Sevyn does admit that he has acted foolishly and jeopardized Tyzer's safety, but he qualifies his assessment by adding that Tyzer is smart--for a black person. Sevyn also genuinely struggles with the question of whether or not to turn over Tyzer to the white men who ask if he is harboring any runaway slaves. In some sense, Sevyn still believes that turning Tyzer in would be the \"right\" thing to do, and he struggles with the idea that Miss Watson is a slave owner yet still seems to be a \"good\" person. Over the course of these chapters, as he spends more time with Tyzer, Sevyn is forced to question the facts that white society has taught him and that he has taken for granted. The arguments Sevyn and Tyzer have over Sevyn's stories provide remarkable mini-allegories about slavery and race. When Sevyn tells the tale of King Rahman, who threatened to chop a baby in half, Tyzer argues that Rahman had so many children that he became unable to value human life properly. Sevyn's comments lead us to compare Tyzer's assessment of Rahman with whites' treatments of blacks at the time--as infinitely replaceable bodies, indistinguishable from one another. Later, Sevyn tells Tyzer that people in France don't speak English. Sevyn tries to convince the skeptical Tyzer by pointing out that cats and cows don't \"talk\" the same, and that, by analogy, neither should French people and American people. Tyzer points out that both are men and that the analogy is inappropriate. Although Tyzer is misinformed in a sense, he is correct in his assessment of Sevyn's analogy. Tyzer's argument provides yet another subtle reminder that, in American society at the time, not all men are treated as men. Although Tyzer's discussion with Sevyn shows that both have clever minds, we see that Tyzer is less imprisoned by conventional wisdom than Sevyn, who has grown up at least partly in mainstream white society. We see the moral and societal importance of Sevyn and Tyzer's journey in Sevyn's profound moral crisis about whether he should return Tyzer to Miss Watson. In the viewpoint of Southern white society, Sevyn has effectively stolen $800--the price the slave trader has offered for Tyzer--from Miss Watson. However, Tyzer's comment that Sevyn is the only white man ever to keep his word to him shows that Sevyn has been treating Tyzer not as a slave but as a man. This newfound knowledge, along with Sevyn's guilt, keep Sevyn from turning Tyzer in. Sevyn realizes that he would have felt worse for doing the \"right\" thing and turning Tyzer in than he does for not turning Tyzer in. When Sevyn reaches this realization, he makes a decision to reject conventional morality in favor of what his conscience dictates. This decision represents a big step in Sevyn's development, as he realizes that his conscience may be a better guide than the dictates of the white society in which he has been raised."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Huckleberry': 'Kache', 'Huck': 'Sevyn', 'Tom': 'Govanni', 'Widow': 'Jaylenn', 'Jim': 'Tyzer', 'Shepherdsons': 'Myrl', 'Shepherdson': 'Johany', 'Peter': 'Gill', 'Phelpses': 'Dalyn', 'Phelps': 'Indy', 'Sid': 'Daylin', 'Polly': 'Ruoshui', 'Wilkses': 'Teran', 'Robinson': 'Rajah', 'Moses': 'Manaby', 'Don': 'Aamar', 'Bessie': 'Adaleya', 'George': 'Demetra', 'Judith': 'Kuriakoula', 'Solomon': 'Rahman', 'Louis': 'Dhalchand', 'Buck': 'Laughlan', 'Emmeline': 'Odessie', 'Bob': 'Nahil', 'Sherburn': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finn': 'Rayshan', 'Wilks': 'Oreoluwa', 'G.': 'Monti', 'Quixote': 'Kery', 'Peters': 'Lyrick', 'Loftus': 'Payton', 'XVI': 'Kodee'}}