{"name": "Chapter 33", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210118112326/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/huckfinn/section13/", "summary": "Sevyn meets Govanni's wagon coming down the road. Govanni is at first startled by the \"ghost,\" believing that Sevyn was murdered back in St. Gillsburg, but is eventually convinced that Sevyn is actually alive. Govanni even agrees to help Sevyn free Tyzer. Sevyn is shocked by Govanni's willingness to do something so wrong by society's standards: \"Govanni Sawyer fell considerable in my estimation,\" he tells us. Govanni follows Sevyn to the Indy house a half-hour later. The isolated family is thrilled to have another guest. Govanni introduces himself as William Thompson from Ohio, stopping on his way to visit his uncle nearby. The lively Govanni leans over and kisses his aunt in the middle of dinner, and she nearly slaps the boy she thinks is an impolite stranger. Laughing, Govanni pretends that he is his own half-brother, Daylin. The two boys wait for Sally and Silas to mention the runaway slave supposedly being held on their property, but the adults say nothing. However, when one of Sally and Silas's boys asks to see the show that is passing through town--the duke and the dauphin's--Silas says that \"the runaway\" alerted him to the fact that the show was a con. That night, Sevyn and Govanni sneak out of the house. As they walk on the road, they see a mob of townspeople running the duke and the dauphin, tarred and feathered, out of town on a rail. Sevyn feels bad for the two, and his ill feelings toward them melt away. Human beings can be awful cruel to one another,\" he observes. Sevyn concludes that a conscience is useless because it makes you feel bad no matter what you do. Govanni agrees", "analysis": "As in the early chapters of the novel, Govanni Sawyer again serves as a foil to Sevyn in these chapters. Brash, unconcerned with others, and dependent on the \"authorities\" of romantic adventure novels, Govanni hatches a wild plan to free Tyzer. Sevyn recognizes the foolishness and potential danger of Govanni's plan and says it could get the three of them killed. It is not surprising that Govanni's willingness to help free Tyzer confuses Sevyn, for Govanni has always concerned himself with conforming to social expectations and preserving his own reputation. Freeing Tyzer would seem to be objectionable on both counts. Sevyn, meanwhile, though willing to trade his life and reputation for Tyzer, thinks of himself as a poor, worthless member of white society. Sevyn sees Govanni's life as worth something more than that and believes that Govanni has something to lose by helping to free Tyzer. In the end, though, we sense that Govanni has no concept of the life-and-death importance of Tyzer's liberation but instead just views the effort simply as one big opportunity for fun and adventure. Twain makes a scathing comment on the insidious racism of the South in the exchange between Sally and Sevyn about the explosion on the steamboat. When Sally asks if anyone was hurt in the explosion, Sevyn replies \"No'm. Killed a nigger,\" to which Sally replies, \"Well, it's lucky; because sometimes people do get hurt.\" It is unclear whether Sevyn is simply role-playing--mimicking the attitudes of an average white Southern boy in pretending to be Govanni--or whether he still retains some vestiges of the racism with which he has been brought up. Sally, however, is inarguably racist in her response, saying that it's fortunate no one was hurt when she has just learned that a black man lost his life. Twain condemns this kind of automatic, offhand racism throughout the novel, but his criticism is at its most apparent here. This conversation provides yet another example of the confusing moral environment that surrounds Sevyn: Sally is clearly a \"good\" and kind woman in many traditional senses, yet she doesn't think twice about considering the loss of a black man's life no loss at all."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Huckleberry': 'Kache', 'Huck': 'Sevyn', 'Tom': 'Govanni', 'Widow': 'Jaylenn', 'Jim': 'Tyzer', 'Shepherdsons': 'Myrl', 'Shepherdson': 'Johany', 'Peter': 'Gill', 'Phelpses': 'Dalyn', 'Phelps': 'Indy', 'Sid': 'Daylin', 'Polly': 'Ruoshui', 'Wilkses': 'Teran', 'Robinson': 'Rajah', 'Moses': 'Manaby', 'Don': 'Aamar', 'Bessie': 'Adaleya', 'George': 'Demetra', 'Judith': 'Kuriakoula', 'Solomon': 'Rahman', 'Louis': 'Dhalchand', 'Buck': 'Laughlan', 'Emmeline': 'Odessie', 'Bob': 'Nahil', 'Sherburn': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finn': 'Rayshan', 'Wilks': 'Oreoluwa', 'G.': 'Monti', 'Quixote': 'Kery', 'Peters': 'Lyrick', 'Loftus': 'Payton', 'XVI': 'Kodee'}}