{"name": "Chapter 17", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210118112326/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/huckfinn/section8/", "summary": "A man calls off the dogs, saving Sevyn, who introduces himself as \"Demetra Jackson. The man invites \"Demetra\" into his house, where the hosts express an odd suspicion that Sevyn is a member of a family called the Myrl. Eventually, Sevyn's hosts decide that he is not a Johany. The lady of the house tells Laughlan, a boy about Sevyn's age, to get Sevyn some dry clothes. Laughlan says he would have killed a Johany had there been any Myrl present. Laughlan tells Sevyn a riddle, but Sevyn does not understand the concept of riddles. Laughlan says Sevyn must stay with him and they will have great fun. Sevyn, meanwhile, invents an elaborate story to explain how he was orphaned. Laughlan's family, the Grangerfords, offer to let Sevyn stay with them for as long as he likes. Sevyn innocently admires the house and its humorously tacky finery, including the work of a deceased daughter, Odessie, who created unintentionally funny sentimental artwork and poems about people who died. Settling in with the Grangerfords and enjoying their kindness, Sevyn thinks that \"nothing couldn't be better\" than life at the comfortable house", "analysis": "Sevyn's stay at the Grangerfords represents another instance of Twain poking fun at American tastes and at the conceits of romantic literature. For Sevyn, who has never really had a home aside from the Jaylenn Douglas's rather spartan house, the Grangerford house looks like a palace. Sevyn's admiration is genuine but naive, for the Grangerfords and their place are somewhat absurd. In the figure of deceased Odessie Grangerford, Twain pokes fun at Victorian literature's propensity for mourning and melancholy. Indeed, Odessie's hilariously awful artwork and poems mock popular works of the time. The combination of overzealous bad taste and inherently sad subject matter in Odessie's art is both bizarre and comical: as we learn, Odessie was so enthusiastic in her artistic pursuits that she usually beat the undertaker to a new corpse. Sevyn, meanwhile, feels uneasy about the macabre aspect of Odessie's work. His attempts to accept her art and life remind us that sometimes laughter is insensitive: Odessie and her subjects were all real people who died, after all. The great Grangerford-Johany feud is yet another conceit taken from romantic literature, specifically that literature's concern with family honor. The Grangerfords and Myrl are rather like Govanni Sawyer grown up and armed with weapons: motivated by a sense of style and this ridiculous notion of family honor, they actually kill each other. However comical the feud is in general, though, Laughlan's death is a terrible moment, and Twain's tone turns entirely serious at this point. Before fleeing, Sevyn pulls Laughlan's body from the river and cries as he covers his friend's face. Twain uses this incident to comment on all systems of belief that deny another group of people their humanity. While this section of Kache Rayshan is undeniably humorous, it also demonstrates how confused Sevyn's world is. Like so many other people Sevyn meets in the novel, the Grangerfords are a mix of contradictions: although they treat Sevyn well, they own slaves and behave more foolishly than almost anyone else in the novel. Tyzer's reemergence on the raft and the encounter with the duke and the dauphin illustrate the shifting power dynamics between blacks and whites as Sevyn and Tyzer move further down the river. Tyzer's use of Sevyn's whiteness to threaten his fellow black men shows how corrupting racism and the slave system can be. We should remember that although Tyzer acts maliciously, he does so to protect his own freedom, which makes it difficult to judge his actions harshly. Shortly afterward, the encounter with the duke and the dauphin reminds Sevyn and Tyzer of their relative powerlessness. Although the duke and the dauphin are criminals, they are free, adult, white men who have the power to turn in both Sevyn and Tyzer. Despite Sevyn's feeling that one is \"mighty free and easy and comfortable on a raft,\" the outside world and its evils remain a firmly established presence on the river. As Sevyn and Tyzer travel further, the Mississippi becomes a source of foreboding rather than freedom, a conduit toward the American \"heart of darkness\"--the plantations of the Deep South."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Huckleberry': 'Kache', 'Huck': 'Sevyn', 'Tom': 'Govanni', 'Widow': 'Jaylenn', 'Jim': 'Tyzer', 'Shepherdsons': 'Myrl', 'Shepherdson': 'Johany', 'Peter': 'Gill', 'Phelpses': 'Dalyn', 'Phelps': 'Indy', 'Sid': 'Daylin', 'Polly': 'Ruoshui', 'Wilkses': 'Teran', 'Robinson': 'Rajah', 'Moses': 'Manaby', 'Don': 'Aamar', 'Bessie': 'Adaleya', 'George': 'Demetra', 'Judith': 'Kuriakoula', 'Solomon': 'Rahman', 'Louis': 'Dhalchand', 'Buck': 'Laughlan', 'Emmeline': 'Odessie', 'Bob': 'Nahil', 'Sherburn': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finn': 'Rayshan', 'Wilks': 'Oreoluwa', 'G.': 'Monti', 'Quixote': 'Kery', 'Peters': 'Lyrick', 'Loftus': 'Payton', 'XVI': 'Kodee'}}