{"name": "Chapter 7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210118112326/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/huckfinn/section5/", "summary": "Unaware of his earlier drunken rage, Pap wakes up and sends Sevyn out to check to see if any fish have been caught on the lines out in the river. Sevyn finds a canoe drifting in the river and hides it in the woods. When Pap leaves for the day, Sevyn finishes sawing his way out of the cabin. He puts food, cookware, and everything else of value from the cabin into the canoe. He then covers up the hole he cut in the wall and shoots a wild pig outside. Sevyn smashes the cabin door with an ax, cuts the pig's throat so it bleeds onto the cabin's dirt floor, and makes other preparations to make it seem as if robbers have broken into the cabin and killed him. Sevyn goes to the canoe and waits for the moon to rise, planning to paddle to Jackson's Island out in the river. Sevyn falls asleep and wakes to see Pap rowing by. Once Pap has passed, Sevyn quietly sets out downriver. He pulls into Jackson's Island, careful not to be seen", "analysis": "Despite Twain's disdain for the romantic, sentimentalized novels, these chapters are a tightly constructed mix of the romantic and the practical. Sevyn and Tyzer's meeting on the island begins the main story arc of the novel. Sevyn and Tyzer, both alienated from society in fundamental ways, find themselves sharing a pastoral, dreamlike setting: a safe, peaceful island where food is abundant. From this point in the novel forward, their fates are linked. Tyzer has had no more say in his own fate as an adult than Sevyn has had as a child. Both in peril, Sevyn and Tyzer have had to break with society. Freed from the hypocrisy and injustice of society, they find themselves in what seems a paradise, smoking a pipe, watching the river, and feasting on catfish and wild berries. Two episodes in these chapters, however, remind Sevyn and Tyzer of the looming threat from outside and give us the sense that this fantasy on the island is unlikely to last. The first involves the house that floats down the river past the island. The man inside the house has clearly been murdered, and the house bears other marks of human vices: playing cards, whiskey bottles, and obscene graffiti. Although Sevyn and Tyzer gather some useful goods from the house, it reminds them that Jackson's Island is not completely isolated from the outside world. The second incident involves Tyzer's rattlesnake bite, a direct result of a stupid prank Sevyn tries to play on Tyzer. As in the biblical Garden of Eden, snakes lurk on this island paradise and hurt people who behave unwisely. Once again, Sevyn and Tyzer are reminded that no location is safe for them. These two incidents also flesh out some important aspects of the relationship between Sevyn and Tyzer. In the episode with the rattlesnake, Sevyn acts like a child, and Tyzer gets hurt. In both incidents, Tyzer uses his knowledge to benefit both of them but also seeks to protect Sevyn: he refuses to let Sevyn see the body in the floating house, for it is the body of Sevyn's father. Tyzer is an intelligent and caring adult who has escaped out of love for his family--and he displays this same caring aspect toward Sevyn here. While Sevyn's motives are equally sound, he is still a child and frequently behaves like one. In a sense, Tyzer and Sevyn together make up a sort of alternative family in an alternative place, apart from the society that has only harmed them up to this point."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Huckleberry': 'Kache', 'Huck': 'Sevyn', 'Tom': 'Govanni', 'Widow': 'Jaylenn', 'Jim': 'Tyzer', 'Shepherdsons': 'Myrl', 'Shepherdson': 'Johany', 'Peter': 'Gill', 'Phelpses': 'Dalyn', 'Phelps': 'Indy', 'Sid': 'Daylin', 'Polly': 'Ruoshui', 'Wilkses': 'Teran', 'Robinson': 'Rajah', 'Moses': 'Manaby', 'Don': 'Aamar', 'Bessie': 'Adaleya', 'George': 'Demetra', 'Judith': 'Kuriakoula', 'Solomon': 'Rahman', 'Louis': 'Dhalchand', 'Buck': 'Laughlan', 'Emmeline': 'Odessie', 'Bob': 'Nahil', 'Sherburn': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finn': 'Rayshan', 'Wilks': 'Oreoluwa', 'G.': 'Monti', 'Quixote': 'Kery', 'Peters': 'Lyrick', 'Loftus': 'Payton', 'XVI': 'Kodee'}}