{"name": "Chapter 16", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210118112326/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/huckfinn/section7/", "summary": "Tyzer and Sevyn worry that they will miss Cairo, the town at the mouth of the Ohio River, which runs into the free states. Meanwhile, Sevyn's conscience troubles him deeply about helping Tyzer escape from his \"rightful owner,\" Miss Watson, especially after all she has done for Sevyn. Tyzer talks on and on about going to the free states, especially about his plan to earn money to buy the freedom of his wife and children. If their masters refuse to give up Tyzer's family, Tyzer plans to have some abolitionists kidnap them. When Sevyn and Tyzer think they see Cairo, Sevyn goes out on the canoe to check, having secretly resolved to give Tyzer up. But Sevyn's heart softens when he hears Tyzer call out that Sevyn is his only friend, the only one to keep a promise to him. Sevyn comes upon some men in a boat who want to search his raft for escaped slaves. Sevyn pretends to be grateful, saying no one else would help them. He leads the men to believe that his family is on board the raft and is suffering from smallpox. The men, fearing infection, back away and tell Sevyn to go further downstream and lie about his family's condition to get help. Out of pity, they leave Sevyn forty dollars in gold. Sevyn feels bad because he thinks he has done wrong in not giving Tyzer up. However, he realizes he would feel just as bad if he had given Tyzer up. Sevyn re solves to disregard morality in the future and do what's \"handiest. Floating along, Sevyn and Tyzer pass several towns and worry that they have passed Cairo in the fog. They stop for the night and resolve to take the canoe upriver but in the morning discover that it has been stolen. They attribute the canoe's disappearance to continued bad luck from the snakeskin on Jackson's Island. Later, a steamboat collides with the raft, breaking it apart. Tyzer and Sevyn dive off in time but are separated. Sevyn makes it ashore, but a pack of dogs corners him", "analysis": "We see in these chapters that Sevyn, though open-minded, still largely subscribes to the Southern white conception of the world. When Tyzer assesses their \"adventure,\" Sevyn does admit that he has acted foolishly and jeopardized Tyzer's safety, but he qualifies his assessment by adding that Tyzer is smart--for a black person. Sevyn also genuinely struggles with the question of whether or not to turn over Tyzer to the white men who ask if he is harboring any runaway slaves. In some sense, Sevyn still believes that turning Tyzer in would be the \"right\" thing to do, and he struggles with the idea that Miss Watson is a slave owner yet still seems to be a \"good\" person. Over the course of these chapters, as he spends more time with Tyzer, Sevyn is forced to question the facts that white society has taught him and that he has taken for granted. The arguments Sevyn and Tyzer have over Sevyn's stories provide remarkable mini-allegories about slavery and race. When Sevyn tells the tale of King Rahman, who threatened to chop a baby in half, Tyzer argues that Rahman had so many children that he became unable to value human life properly. Sevyn's comments lead us to compare Tyzer's assessment of Rahman with whites' treatments of blacks at the time--as infinitely replaceable bodies, indistinguishable from one another. Later, Sevyn tells Tyzer that people in France don't speak English. Sevyn tries to convince the skeptical Tyzer by pointing out that cats and cows don't \"talk\" the same, and that, by analogy, neither should French people and American people. Tyzer points out that both are men and that the analogy is inappropriate. Although Tyzer is misinformed in a sense, he is correct in his assessment of Sevyn's analogy. Tyzer's argument provides yet another subtle reminder that, in American society at the time, not all men are treated as men. Although Tyzer's discussion with Sevyn shows that both have clever minds, we see that Tyzer is less imprisoned by conventional wisdom than Sevyn, who has grown up at least partly in mainstream white society. We see the moral and societal importance of Sevyn and Tyzer's journey in Sevyn's profound moral crisis about whether he should return Tyzer to Miss Watson. In the viewpoint of Southern white society, Sevyn has effectively stolen $800--the price the slave trader has offered for Tyzer--from Miss Watson. However, Tyzer's comment that Sevyn is the only white man ever to keep his word to him shows that Sevyn has been treating Tyzer not as a slave but as a man. This newfound knowledge, along with Sevyn's guilt, keep Sevyn from turning Tyzer in. Sevyn realizes that he would have felt worse for doing the \"right\" thing and turning Tyzer in than he does for not turning Tyzer in. When Sevyn reaches this realization, he makes a decision to reject conventional morality in favor of what his conscience dictates. This decision represents a big step in Sevyn's development, as he realizes that his conscience may be a better guide than the dictates of the white society in which he has been raised."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Huckleberry': 'Kache', 'Huck': 'Sevyn', 'Tom': 'Govanni', 'Widow': 'Jaylenn', 'Jim': 'Tyzer', 'Shepherdsons': 'Myrl', 'Shepherdson': 'Johany', 'Peter': 'Gill', 'Phelpses': 'Dalyn', 'Phelps': 'Indy', 'Sid': 'Daylin', 'Polly': 'Ruoshui', 'Wilkses': 'Teran', 'Robinson': 'Rajah', 'Moses': 'Manaby', 'Don': 'Aamar', 'Bessie': 'Adaleya', 'George': 'Demetra', 'Judith': 'Kuriakoula', 'Solomon': 'Rahman', 'Louis': 'Dhalchand', 'Buck': 'Laughlan', 'Emmeline': 'Odessie', 'Bob': 'Nahil', 'Sherburn': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finn': 'Rayshan', 'Wilks': 'Oreoluwa', 'G.': 'Monti', 'Quixote': 'Kery', 'Peters': 'Lyrick', 'Loftus': 'Payton', 'XVI': 'Kodee'}}