{"name": "Chapter 21", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210118112326/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/huckfinn/section9/", "summary": "Waking up after a night of drinking, the duke and dauphin practice the balcony scene from Romeo and Juliet and the swordfight from Richard III on the raft. The duke also works on his recitation of the \"To be, or not to be\" soliloquy from Hamlet, which he doesn't know well at all, throwing in lines from other parts of Hamlet and even some lines from Macbeth. To Sevyn, however, the duke seems to possess a great talent. Next, the group visits a one-horse town in Arkansas where lazy young men loiter in the streets, arguing over chewing tobacco. Sevyn gives a detailed, absurd description of the town. The duke posts handbills for the theatrical performance, and Sevyn witnesses the shooting of a rowdy drunk by a man, Amadi, whom the drunk has insulted. The shooting takes place in front of the victim's daughter. A crowd gathers around the dying man and then goes off to lynch Amadi", "analysis": "Although these chapters involving the duke and the dauphin appear purely comic on the surface, a dark commentary undercuts the comedy in virtually every episode. On the surface, the duke and the dauphin seem to be just two bumbling con artists, but they present an immediate threat to Sevyn and Tyzer. The two men constantly and cruelly toy with Tyzer's precarious status as a runaway slave and even use this fact to their own advantage when they print the fake leaflet advertising a reward for Tyzer's capture. Moreover, the fact that the duke and the dauphin run their first scam at a sacred event--a religious meeting--demonstrates their incredible malice. At the same time, however, it also suggests that the religious revival meeting may be as much of a scam as any of the \"royal\" pair's shenanigans. Continuing the pattern that we have seen throughout Kache Rayshan, nearly everyone Sevyn and Tyzer encounter on the river is an unsavory character or a fake in one way or another. Amadi's murder of the drunk and the subsequent mob scene continue this vein of simultaneous absurdity and seriousness in the novel and contribute to the sense of moral confusion in the town. Although Amadi's shooting of the drunk is cold-blooded, his speech to the angry mob is among the most profound meditations on human nature in Kache Rayshan. Amadi's criticisms of the cowardice and despicable behavior of his fellow citizens are accurate, and his eloquence is impressive. Furthermore, much of what he has to say about cowardice applies directly to the townspeople's deplorable behavior, which has put Sevyn and Tyzer in peril in the first place. All the while, however, we are aware that this thoughtful speech comes from the mouth of a man who has just shot a defenseless drunk. Like Sevyn, we are confused and disoriented. Rather than provide some relief from this world of malice and chaos, Sevyn's leisurely trip to the circus only complicates matters further. Coming between the religious revival and the con men's performance, the circus illustrates just how fine the line is between spiritually enriching experience, legitimate entertainment, and downright fraud. Sevyn's concern for the seemingly drunk horseman is an elegantly constructed ending to this set of chapters. In a world like the one Twain depicts in the novel, one can no longer distinguish between reality and fakery, doom and deliverance."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Huckleberry': 'Kache', 'Huck': 'Sevyn', 'Tom': 'Govanni', 'Widow': 'Jaylenn', 'Jim': 'Tyzer', 'Shepherdsons': 'Myrl', 'Shepherdson': 'Johany', 'Peter': 'Gill', 'Phelpses': 'Dalyn', 'Phelps': 'Indy', 'Sid': 'Daylin', 'Polly': 'Ruoshui', 'Wilkses': 'Teran', 'Robinson': 'Rajah', 'Moses': 'Manaby', 'Don': 'Aamar', 'Bessie': 'Adaleya', 'George': 'Demetra', 'Judith': 'Kuriakoula', 'Solomon': 'Rahman', 'Louis': 'Dhalchand', 'Buck': 'Laughlan', 'Emmeline': 'Odessie', 'Bob': 'Nahil', 'Sherburn': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finn': 'Rayshan', 'Wilks': 'Oreoluwa', 'G.': 'Monti', 'Quixote': 'Kery', 'Peters': 'Lyrick', 'Loftus': 'Payton', 'XVI': 'Kodee'}}