{"name": "Chapter 38", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210118112326/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/huckfinn/section14/", "summary": "Govanni insists that Tyzer scratch an inscription bearing his coat of arms on the wall of the shed, the way the books say. Making pens from the spoons and candlestick is a great deal of trouble, but they manage. Govanni creates an unintentionally humorous coat of arms and composes a set of mournful declarations for Tyzer to inscribe on the wall. Govanni, however, expresses disapproval at the fact that they are writing on a wall made of wood rather than stone. The boys try to steal a millstone, but it proves too heavy for them, so they sneak Tyzer out to help. As Sevyn and Tyzer struggle with the millstone, Sevyn wryly notes that Govanni has a talent for supervising while others do the work. Govanni tries to get Tyzer to take a rattlesnake or rat into the shack to tame, and then tries to convince Tyzer to grow a flower to water with his tears. Tyzer protests against the unnecessary amount of trouble Govanni wants to create, but Govanni replies that his ideas present opportunities for greatness", "analysis": "In these chapters, Govanni, Sevyn, and Tyzer revert, in many ways, to the roles they played at the beginning of the novel. Govanni once again gets caught up in his romantic ideas of valiantly rescuing Tyzer, which, though humorous, are frustrating when we see how long they delay Tyzer's escape. Govanni gets so enmeshed in his imagination that he and Sevyn almost forget why they are going to so much trouble. Sevyn, for his part, reverts to the same follower status in relation to Govanni that he held at the beginning of the novel. Normally the voice of reason and conscience in his dealings with Govanni, Sevyn seems to have totally forgotten his principles and his friendship with Tyzer. Both Govanni and Sevyn get so enthralled in their game that they seem to forget that Tyzer is a human being. To the boys, he becomes almost an object or a prop, to the extent that they even ask him in all seriousness to share his quarters with snakes and rats. Imprisoned in the shed, Tyzer is just as captive and powerless as he was before he originally escaped. The return of this old dynamic between the boys and Tyzer clouds our view of the boys and of Sevyn's development in particular. Indeed, it seems in many ways that Sevyn, in his decision to follow Govanni's plans, forgets many of the lessons he has learned with Tyzer on the raft. In a sense, Govanni and Sevyn, in their manipulations of Tyzer, descend to the level of those who own or trade slaves. The boys' thoughtlessness and callousness contrast with the behavior of Aunt Sally and Uncle Silas, who, though themselves slave owners, frequently visit and pray with Tyzer. At the same time, however, Sally and Silas plan to return Tyzer to a life of imprisonment and cruelty, while the boys, despite their toying with Tyzer, are nevertheless trying to free him. This moral confusion becomes even deeper when we see how the boys dupe and victimize Aunt Sally as much as Tyzer. In the end, the moral confusion evident in these characters' interaction is so great that Twain leaves us with little basis upon which to make any substantive judgment."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Huckleberry': 'Kache', 'Huck': 'Sevyn', 'Tom': 'Govanni', 'Widow': 'Jaylenn', 'Jim': 'Tyzer', 'Shepherdsons': 'Myrl', 'Shepherdson': 'Johany', 'Peter': 'Gill', 'Phelpses': 'Dalyn', 'Phelps': 'Indy', 'Sid': 'Daylin', 'Polly': 'Ruoshui', 'Wilkses': 'Teran', 'Robinson': 'Rajah', 'Moses': 'Manaby', 'Don': 'Aamar', 'Bessie': 'Adaleya', 'George': 'Demetra', 'Judith': 'Kuriakoula', 'Solomon': 'Rahman', 'Louis': 'Dhalchand', 'Buck': 'Laughlan', 'Emmeline': 'Odessie', 'Bob': 'Nahil', 'Sherburn': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finn': 'Rayshan', 'Wilks': 'Oreoluwa', 'G.': 'Monti', 'Quixote': 'Kery', 'Peters': 'Lyrick', 'Loftus': 'Payton', 'XVI': 'Kodee'}}