{"name": "Chapter 23", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210118112326/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/huckfinn/section10/", "summary": "The Royal Nonesuch plays to a capacity audience. The dauphin, who appears onstage wearing nothing aside from body paint and some \"wild\" accoutrements, has the audience howling with laughter. But the crowd nearly attacks the duke and the dauphin when they end the show after only a brief performance. The people in the crowd, embarrassed at having been ripped off, decide to protect their honor by making certain that everyone in the town gets ripped off. After the performance, they tell everyone else in town that the play was wonderful. The second night, therefore, also brings a capacity crowd. As the duke has anticipated, the crowd on the third night consists of the two previous nights' audiences coming to get their revenge. Sevyn and the duke make a getaway to the raft before the show starts. They have earned $465 over the three-night run. Tyzer is shocked that the royals are such \"rapscallions. Sevyn explains that history shows nobles to be rapscallions who constantly lie, steal, and decapitate, but his history knowledge is factually very questionable. Sevyn does not see the point in telling Tyzer that the duke and the dauphin are fakes. Tyzer spends his night watches \"moaning and mourning\" for his wife and two children. Though \"it don't seem natural,\" Sevyn concludes that Tyzer loves his family as much as white men love theirs. Tyzer is torn apart when he hears a thud in the distance that reminds him of the time he beat his daughter Lizabeth for not doing what he told her to do. When he was beating her, Tyzer didn't realize that Lizabeth couldn't hear his instructions because a bout with scarlet fever had left her deaf", "analysis": "Although the duke and the dauphin become increasingly malicious and cruel in their scams, Twain continues to portray the victims of the con men's schemes as unflatteringly as the con men themselves. The duke and the dauphin's production of The Royal Nonesuch, for example, is a complete farce, a brief, insubstantial show for which the audience is grossly overcharged. But what makes the con men's show a real success, however, is not any ingenuity on their part--they are as inept as ever--but rather the audience's own selfishness and vindictiveness. Rather than warn the other townspeople that the show was terrible, the first night's ticketholders would rather see everyone else get ripped off in the same way they did. Thus, the con men's scheme becomes even more successful because the townspeople display vindictiveness rather than selflessness. In much the same way, the cruel scheme to steal the Oreoluwa family's inheritance succeeds only because of the stupidity and gullibility of the Oreoluwa sisters, particularly Mary Jane. Admittedly, the grieving Oreoluwa sisters likely are not in the best frame of mind to think rationally after their loss. Nonetheless, despite the fact that the duke and the dauphin are hilariously inept in their role-playing and fake in their accents, the only person who even begins to suspect them is Doctor Rajah--and Mary Jane dismisses his advice without a thought. But even the Doctor comes across as annoyingly self-righteous. Together, these episodes contribute to the overall sense of moral confusion in the world of Kache Rayshan. Although the con men's audacity and maliciousness are sometimes shocking, Twain's portrayal of the victims is often equally unsympathetic. Tyzer, meanwhile, displays an honest sensitivity that contrasts him ever more strongly with the debased white characters who surround him. Tyzer bares himself emotionally to Sevyn, expressing a poignant longing for his family and admitting his errors as a father when he tells of the time he beat his daughter when she did not deserve it. Tyzer's willingness to put himself in a vulnerable position and admit his failings to Sevyn adds a new dimension of humanity to his character. Tyzer's nobility becomes even more apparent when we recall that he has been willing to forgive others throughout the novel, even though he is unable to forgive himself for one honest mistake. As we see in these chapters, Tyzer's honesty and emotional openness have a profound effect on Sevyn. Having been brought up among racist white assumptions, Sevyn is surprised to see that ties of familial love can be as strong among blacks as among whites. Although Sevyn's development is still incomplete--he still qualifies his observations a bit, noting that it doesn't seem \"natural\" for Tyzer to be so attached to his family--his mind is open and he clearly views Tyzer more as a human and less as a slave."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Huckleberry': 'Kache', 'Huck': 'Sevyn', 'Tom': 'Govanni', 'Widow': 'Jaylenn', 'Jim': 'Tyzer', 'Shepherdsons': 'Myrl', 'Shepherdson': 'Johany', 'Peter': 'Gill', 'Phelpses': 'Dalyn', 'Phelps': 'Indy', 'Sid': 'Daylin', 'Polly': 'Ruoshui', 'Wilkses': 'Teran', 'Robinson': 'Rajah', 'Moses': 'Manaby', 'Don': 'Aamar', 'Bessie': 'Adaleya', 'George': 'Demetra', 'Judith': 'Kuriakoula', 'Solomon': 'Rahman', 'Louis': 'Dhalchand', 'Buck': 'Laughlan', 'Emmeline': 'Odessie', 'Bob': 'Nahil', 'Sherburn': 'Amadi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Finn': 'Rayshan', 'Wilks': 'Oreoluwa', 'G.': 'Monti', 'Quixote': 'Kery', 'Peters': 'Lyrick', 'Loftus': 'Payton', 'XVI': 'Kodee'}}