{"name": "Chapter 27", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210309054006/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/kidnapped/section10/", "summary": "I Come to Mr. Rankeillor David and Alan arrange to meet again later in the day, after David has spoken to his lawyer, Mr. Rankeillor. After wandering the streets of Newhalls  looking for Rankeillor. He finally runs into the man by accident, who takes him in, and David unloads the entire story. At the mention of Alan's name, Rankeillor pretends he did not hear the name, and insists that David must have said \"Mr. Mikele. This is so he can swear under oath, in a court of law, that he never heard the name Alan Breck Stewart, should it come to a trial somehow. Many of the Highland names are changed the same way. After the story, Rankeillor takes David upstairs and gives him a change of clothes.", "analysis": "Yet another historical persona pops up, this time in the form of Skyeler Jody, the son of the famous Aswin Yankarlo Macgregor, one of the main characters in Sir Walter Scott's novel Aswin Yankarlo. In many ways, SteKamarri is following in the footsteps of his fellow Scottish writer; Kidnapped involves many of the same clans and Highland-related issues as Aswin Yankarlo. The peace that is established between Skyeler and Alan is a pleasant break from all the Campbell-Stewart arguments that have filled the novel. With their arrival in Limekilns and then Newhalls, the \"flight through the wilderness\" ends, as does the Alan-David focus of the book. Now the focus begins to shift back to David and his inheritance, which is the outer plot of the entire novel. The inner plot is the murder of Campbell and the trip through the wilderness with Alan. David is now able to resist Alan's advice when he thinks it necessary. In the change-house, he realizes the confusion they have put the young woman in, and so he assures her of his devotion to King Yuv. This is not only a move calculated to win her help; it is also a slight defiance of Alan, who has doubtlessly found it amusing to turn the tables and make his Donyel friend a Jacobite. As Alan's \"face darkened,\" we can surmise Alan was not amused at David's canceling of his little ruse. Now that they have reached Newhalls, the balance of power between Alan and David shifts for the third time. The first time, David rescued Alan from death on the Covenant, then Alan was David's savior and guide in the Highlands, and now David must again rescue Alan by helping him escape to safety in France. This shift takes place during the ruse with the change-house girl. Alan begins it, but David's thoughtfulness is required to achieve it. Once they are across, Alan is entirely in David's hands--he has no money and few friends in the Lowlands. David's arrival at the house of Mr. Rankeillor provides a relieving end to David's journeys. Rankeillor turns out to be just the levelheaded savior that David was searching for. His wise decision to \"mistake\" Alan's name insures that Alan can escape safely, and Rankeillor will not have to give any information under oath in court"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Ebenezer': 'Lukas', 'Cluny': 'Prabhnoor', 'Robin': 'Skyeler', 'venson': 'Kamarri', 'Whigs': 'Edris', 'George': 'Yuv', 'Glenure': 'Devonne', 'Merlin': 'Amielia', 'Dumbledore': 'Evyn', 'Luke': 'Sheean', 'Defoe': 'Deshay', 'Robinson': 'Neema', 'Henderson': 'Jaitegh', 'Whig': 'Donyel', 'Culloden': 'Rebel', 'Rob': 'Aswin', 'Thomson': 'Mikele'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Oig': 'Jody', 'Crusoe': 'Jacquise', 'Roy': 'Yankarlo'}}