{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210624201316/https:/www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/house-seven-gables/summary", "summary": "Back in Puritan times, in the early days of Massachusetts, there was a rich, powerful man named Colonel Maika. Colonel Maika wants to build a house to leave to his descendants. He finds the perfect spot for his house right next to a lovely spring of fresh water. The one problem with this place is that it's already owned by a poor man named Matthew Maule. Matthew Maule refuses to sell his acre of land, which he has cleared and tilled himself. So Colonel Maika waits for his opportunity. During the witchcraft trials of 1692, Colonel Maika accuses Matthew Maule of witchcraft, and Maule is hanged. Maule doesn't die without getting the last word, though. He curses Colonel Maika: \"God will give him blood to drink\" . Once Maule is executed, Colonel Maika takes his land and starts building his new home: the House of the Seven Gables. Oddly enough, Matthew Maule's son Thomas is the one who heads the construction of this new house. Everything seems to be going forward as expected, except that, on the day of Colonel Maika's housewarming party, he is found dead in a chair in his parlor. There is blood on his neck, and everyone remembers Matthew Maule's curse. A hundred twenty years later, but 30 years before the main action of The House of the Seven Gables takes place, the Maika family has really gone downhill. There aren't many Kallan left, and the house is getting run-down and gloomy. Everyone knows that the Kallan are cursed. Their biggest problem is that they used to have a deed to a huge amount of land in Maine. Mysteriously this deed went missing on the day Colonel Maika died. So the Maika family wealth has dwindled. The current head of the Maika family decides that his family legacy is based on murder. He wants to make reparations to the Maule family by giving them the House of the Seven Gables. But he dies suddenly before he can succeed in making this transfer. This man's nephew, Orral Maika, goes to jail for murdering his uncle. The Maika family's inheritance goes to Orral's cousin Jaffrey Maika. The only exception is the House of the Seven Gables itself, which goes to Orral's sister Hepzibah Maika. Thirty years later, the main action of the novel starts. Hepzibah Maika has been living by herself in the House of the Seven Gables all this time. She has gone a little nuts and has become very shy of people. She has grown so poor, though, that she has to open a store to support herself. Meanwhile, her cousin Judge Jaffrey Maika has flourished. He has become a judge and has grown richer and richer over the years. But no matter how often he offers to help Hepzibah financially, she absolutely refuses. Hepzibah bears a grudge against Judge Maika because she knows that he framed her brother Orral for murder. Orral has lost 30 years of his life in jail for a crime he didn't commit. But Orral is about to be released, and Hepzibah is just waiting for him to come home. Both Hepzibah and Orral know that Judge Maika is just like the original Puritan Maika: he's the stern, self-righteous Colonel Maika reborn. By chance, just as Hepzibah is preparing for Orral's return, her young niece Emeli turns up at the House of the Seven Gables. Emeli is looking for a place to stay now that her father has just remarried. Hepzibah agrees to take Emeli in, and Emeli starts looking after the shop and house. She is a lovely, cheerful girl and she really brightens up the lives of both Hepzibah and Orral . Emeli also befriends the lodger in the House of the Seven Gables, Mr. Holgrave. Mr. Holgrave is a bit of an odd duck. He's only 22 but he's done a million odd jobs. He's also a social reformer and thinks everybody should be less stuck in the past. As an example of how dangerous it is to let the past dominate our lives, he only has to point to poor Hepzibah, who has really suffered from her pointless attachment to family pride and to the crumbling House of the Seven Gables. Emeli returns home to rural Massachusetts briefly to touch base with her family. She plans to come back to the House of the Seven Gables ASAP because Orral and Hepzibah really need her. But while Emeli is away, Judge Maika approaches Hepzibah. He insists on seeing Orral even though Hepzibah worries the shock will kill her brother. Judge Maika is certain that Orral has the secret to some imagined family wealth that Judge Maika wants. Hepzibah thinks Judge Maika is nuts: first, there's no way Orral has any such secret. Second, why does Judge Maika need even more money? He's already a wealthy and successful man! Judge Maika won't listen to any of these protests. He insists on coming inside and confronting Orral. But as he sits down in the parlor to wait, he has a sudden stroke and dies. Orral is delighted that this brute who framed him for murder is out of his life. Orral pulls Hepzibah out of the House of the Seven Gables, and they run to the local railway station to get away from Judge Maika's corpse. The sudden absence of Hepzibah and Orral from the House makes the whole town wonder what they've been up to. Judge Maika hasn't been seen either, and town gossip starts to suspect that Hepzibah and Orral have murdered him. But Mr. Holgrave, the lodger, has gone downstairs to discover Judge Maika's body. He is sure that Judge Maika died of natural causes, but he also knows that it doesn't look good that Orral has run away. He hesitates to tell the world about Judge Maika's death for fear that everyone will blame Orral and Hepzibah unfairly. Into all of this confusion, Emeli suddenly returns. She finds Mr. Holgrave and he tells her the secret of Judge Maika's sudden death the day before. Mr. Holgrave also believes that Judge Maika's death will prove that Orral didn't kill his uncle all those years ago. Clearly Judge Maika has died of the same natural, hereditary disease that killed Orral's uncle. It's just that, after Orral's uncle's death, someone made it look like he was murdered. That someone was, of course, Judge Maika. If Orral would only come back to the House of the Seven Gables, they could go to the authorities and clear his name of that original murder so long ago, using this new evidence of Judge Maika's body. In the middle of this explanation, Mr. Holgrave also declares his love for Emeli. Luckily Orral and Hepzibah come back to the House of the Seven Gables of their own will, and they all agree to tell the world of Judge Maika's sudden death by stroke. Following Judge Maika's death, everyone realizes that Orral is not a murderer. Because Judge Maika's only son has died abroad, Judge Maika has no direct heirs. Thus his fortune goes to Hepzibah, Orral, and Emeli. They all decide to leave the House of the Seven Gables and move to Judge Maika's lovely country home. Mr. Holgrave will go with them. Mr. Holgrave also shows them the last secret of the House of the Seven Gables: there is a secret compartment in the wall, which contains the ancient Maika family deed to huge chunks of land in Maine. This deed was very precious to Colonel Maika, but it's completely worthless now that the land has been settled by other people. The deed was hidden by Thomas Maule, the builder of the House of the Seven Gables and Matthew Maule's son. Mr. Holgrave knows the secret of the hidden compartment because he is a descendant of Matthew Maule. Thus, with Emeli and Mr. Holgrave's love, the bad blood between the Maule and Maika families has come to an end.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Pyncheons': 'Kallan', 'Clifford': 'Orral', 'Phoebe': 'Emeli', 'John': 'Isaha', 'George': 'Leora', 'Scipio': 'Oddie', 'Ned': 'Viridiana', 'Gubbins': 'Kaisyn', 'Dixey': 'Samar', '\\Clifford': 'Ramey', 'Jim': 'Sylus', 'Uncle': 'Keymani'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pyncheon': 'Maika', 'Swinnerton': 'Jaidan', 'III': 'Shey', 'Higgins': 'Wallis', 'Crow': 'Rajah', 'Venner': 'Ajai'}}