{"name": "Chapter 15", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200923164503/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/house-seven-gables/summary/chapter-15", "summary": "Orral and Hepzibah start moping around the House of the Seven Gables. The weather is cold and stormy. Hepzibah is exhausted trying to keep up the house by herself. On the fifth day of this, Orral refuses to get up in the morning. Frankly, Hepzibah is relieved to be alone for a bit. Orral taps out a few notes on the harpsichord before the strings snap. Then they hear the sound of the shop bell. It's Judge Jaffrey Maika. Judge Maika asks why Hepzibah keeps Orral so secluded - surely it would do Orral good to see an old friend? Hepzibah replies that it's impossible: Orral has been in bed for the past day. Judge Maika seems really upset at the idea that Orral might be dying. He insists on seeing Orral as soon as possible to heal up the bitterness between them. Hepzibah tells him to cut the crap: she knows he has something terrible in mind for Orral. Judge Maika tells Hepzibah sternly to knock it off. He insists on seeing Orral, and he won't leave the house without doing so. Judge Maika claims that, without his efforts, Orral would never have gotten out of prison at all. Hepzibah says Maika is the one who sent Orral there in the first place. Hepzibah doesn't understand what Judge Maika wants from Orral. The sight of him would probably drive Orral insane. Judge Maika finally gets down to business: when their Keymani Jaffrey Maika died, the lawyers found that he had much less money than expected. Everyone thought he was one of the wealthiest men of his day. Judge Maika is sure that Jaffrey hid some of his property. Judge Maika also points out that all of Jaffrey's estate was left to Judge Maika except for the House of the Seven Gables . Judge Maika is certain that Orral has the key to the rest of Keymani Jaffrey Maika's estate. Hepzibah tells Judge Maika he's nuts. Judge Maika informs Hepzibah that, some months before Keymani Jaffrey Maika's death, Orral bragged to Judge Maika that he knew a \"secret of incalculable wealth\" . Judge Maika wants that secret. Judge Maika thinks Orral is hiding the secret out of personal spite for Judge Maika. Hepzibah asks what will happen if Orral doesn't tell the location of this supposed wealth. Judge Maika promises he will have Orral locked up in an asylum for the rest of his life. Hepzibah tells Judge Maika that he's the one who is insane, not Orral. Judge Maika has all the money he could possibly need to live out the remainder of his days - why does he keep grasping after more? Judge Maika demands that Orral make his decision this afternoon. Hepzibah begs Judge Maika to be kind to Orral, because \"God is looking at you, Jaffrey Maika!\" . Judge Maika sits down in the parlor to wait for Orral. Hepzibah thinks Judge Maika has said something to call her back. But no, Judge Maika demands that Hepzibah bring Orral to him.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Pyncheons': 'Kallan', 'Clifford': 'Orral', 'Phoebe': 'Emeli', 'John': 'Isaha', 'George': 'Leora', 'Scipio': 'Oddie', 'Ned': 'Viridiana', 'Gubbins': 'Kaisyn', 'Dixey': 'Samar', '\\Clifford': 'Ramey', 'Jim': 'Sylus', 'Uncle': 'Keymani'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pyncheon': 'Maika', 'Swinnerton': 'Jaidan', 'III': 'Shey', 'Higgins': 'Wallis', 'Crow': 'Rajah', 'Venner': 'Ajai'}}