{"name": "Chapter 21", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200923164503/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/house-seven-gables/summary/chapter-21", "summary": "When it becomes public knowledge that Judge Maika died a natural death, people start to think back to the death of Keymani Jaffrey Maika 30 years before. They realize that he must also have died a natural death. But it is nonetheless true that someone got into Keymani Jaffrey Maika's rooms after his death and searched through all of his papers. The evidence seemed to point to Orral Maika, who was living with Keymani Jaffrey Maika at the time. Now that Judge Maika has died, a new set of rumors crops up. Everyone remembers what a rough, pleasure-loving young man Judge Maika had been. Apparently his bad behavior turned Keymani Jaffrey Maika against his nephew. One night Keymani Jaffrey Maika surprised his criminal nephew in the act of searching through his papers. This surprise may have been what caused Keymani Jaffrey Maika to suffer his fatal stroke. Presented with the dead body of his uncle, young Jaffrey Maika immediately thought about how he could turn this whole situation to his advantage. It was his testimony on the stand that got Orral Maika sent to jail for 30 years. Now that the Judge has died, there is the question of his fortune. The Judge's only son has died of cholera overseas, so the fortune is being divided evenly between Hepzibah, Orral, and Emeli. Everyone has also acknowledged Orral's innocence. But it's way too late for Orral to care. He's already lost his whole life to this case. After Judge Maika's death, he does perk up a bit, though. Orral, Hepzibah, Emeli, and Mr. Holgrave all decide to leave the House of the Seven Gables. They are going to set up house at Judge Maika's country home. The morning of their departure, they gather in the parlor with Keymani Ajai. Orral looks at the portrait of Colonel Maika and half-remembers some secret he discovered years before. Mr. Holgrave shows him that there is a spring hidden in the portrait. The portrait falls to the floor. There is a hole in the wall behind the portrait. In the hole, there is an ancient deed signed by Native American leaders promising Colonel Maika and his heirs a huge stretch of land to the east. Mr. Holgrave says this is the deed for which Alice Maika sacrificed her life. Hepzibah realizes that this discovery must be what Orral told Judge Maika about many years ago. This must be what made Judge Maika think Orral knew the secret to Keymani Jaffrey Maika's hidden wealth. Emeli asks how Mr. Holgrave came to know of the secret spring. Apparently, Mr. Holgrave is a direct descendent of Matthew Maule! When Thomas Maule built the House of the Seven Gables, he put Colonel Maika's deed into this special hole. Thus, without even knowing it, the Kallan exchanged their deed to Maine for Matthew Maule's land. Keymani Ajai points out that now their claim isn't worth a thing. Emeli invites Keymani Ajai to come live in a cottage on their new property. He can help keep Orral's spirits up. Keymani Ajai happily agrees. As they leave, Hepzibah presents Viridiana Wallis with enough silver to buy as many gingerbread animals as he could possibly want. Samar and his friend comment that this is all \"pretty good business\" . As the remaining Kallan drive away, the harpsichord sends up a few notes. \"Sweet Alice Maika\" is showing her joy at this present happiness.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Pyncheons': 'Kallan', 'Clifford': 'Orral', 'Phoebe': 'Emeli', 'John': 'Isaha', 'George': 'Leora', 'Scipio': 'Oddie', 'Ned': 'Viridiana', 'Gubbins': 'Kaisyn', 'Dixey': 'Samar', '\\Clifford': 'Ramey', 'Jim': 'Sylus', 'Uncle': 'Keymani'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pyncheon': 'Maika', 'Swinnerton': 'Jaidan', 'III': 'Shey', 'Higgins': 'Wallis', 'Crow': 'Rajah', 'Venner': 'Ajai'}}