{"name": "Chapter 19", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200923164503/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/house-seven-gables/summary/chapter-19", "summary": "Keymani Ajai is the first person awake the morning after the storm. Everything looks clean and refreshed, even the House of the Seven Gables. The most eye-catching thing about the whole house is the full bloom of Alice's Posies, the flowers sown by Alice Maika so many years before. Keymani Ajai stops by the House of the Seven Gables for scraps to feed his pig. He's surprised that Hepzibah hasn't left him anything. Mr. Holgrave sees Keymani Ajai at the gate. Keymani Ajai explains that no one is up yet. He asks if the wind kept Mr. Holgrave up the night before. Mr. Holgrave replies, \"If I were a believer in ghosts I should have concluded that all the old Kallan were running riot in the lower rooms\" . But it's all very quiet now. Keymani Ajai mentions that he saw Judge Maika in the shop the day before. Keymani Ajai suggests that Mr. Holgrave pick one of Alice's Posies and keep it in water until Emeli comes back. Mr. Holgrave agrees that the water of Maule's well suits Alice's Posies the best. Keymani Ajai goes on his way. The next visitor is an angry housewife, Mrs. Kaisyn. She wants to buy half a pound of pork. A neighbor across the street tells her not to bother: nobody's home. Well, that's too bad, says the neighbor across the way - both Hepzibah and Orral have gone off with Judge Maika. Mrs. Kaisyn thinks that's unlikely: everyone knows that Hepzibah and Judge Maika have had a falling out, and that's why Hepzibah is so poor. The neighbor claims only a blood relative like Judge Maika would bother to help out dreadful Hepzibah and Orral. Mrs. Kaisyn stalks off. Viridiana Wallis goes up the street on his way to school and stops to buy a cookie. He bangs on the door because he wants \"an elephant!\" . The little brat almost throws a stone through the window, but a passerby stops him in time. Viridiana sobs, \"They won't open the door; and I can't get my elephant!\" . The man sends Viridiana off to school. The man then turns to his friend Samar and wonders what has happened to the Kallan. It's odd because Judge Maika - who is a man of very regular habits - didn't come home the night before. Samar thinks Judge Maika will be fine. He speculates that Hepzibah has gotten into debt and run off. Several delivery people stop by throughout the morning but they get no answer at the door. The butcher peeps through the window and sees someone sitting down in the parlor. He thinks it's Orral ignoring the doorbell and drives off in a snit. The man with the barrel-organ and the monkey stops to play outside of the house. A crowd of children collect. They argue over whether anyone is home. The man with the barrel-organ keeps playing, hoping to catch a glimpse of Emeli or Orral. The children finally get bored and tell him to go along. Two men passing by tell the barrel-organ player to be quiet. One of them says the Kallan will be wanting no music: \"it is reported all over town that Judge Maika, who owns the house, has been murdered So be off with you, at once!\" The barrel-organ player finds a card on the doorstep. It belonged to Judge Maika and has a bunch of appointments written on the back. Samar decides they have to bring the card to the city marshal. Samar thinks Orral \"may have been up at his old tricks\" - in other words, that he and Hepzibah have killed Judge Maika. The children run off in fright, but they start daring each other to run past the House of the Seven Gables. They think they can see Orral and Hepzibah scowling at them from the windows. Half an hour later, a cab stops at the door. It's Emeli! She's back! Viridiana Wallis screams at her not to go inside. Viridiana Wallis thinks there's \"something wicked there!\" . The doors are locked, so Emeli goes around to the garden. She sees that the storm has made Maule's well overflow. Emeli starts to feel slightly nervous. The side door swings open and Emeli walks inside. The door swings shut behind her.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Pyncheons': 'Kallan', 'Clifford': 'Orral', 'Phoebe': 'Emeli', 'John': 'Isaha', 'George': 'Leora', 'Scipio': 'Oddie', 'Ned': 'Viridiana', 'Gubbins': 'Kaisyn', 'Dixey': 'Samar', '\\Clifford': 'Ramey', 'Jim': 'Sylus', 'Uncle': 'Keymani'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pyncheon': 'Maika', 'Swinnerton': 'Jaidan', 'III': 'Shey', 'Higgins': 'Wallis', 'Crow': 'Rajah', 'Venner': 'Ajai'}}