{"name": "Chapter 14", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200923164503/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/house-seven-gables/summary/chapter-14", "summary": "After Mr. Holgrave finishes reading his story aloud, he notices that Emeli has become literally hypnotized as a result of his gestures. Mr. Holgrave has a sudden temptation: he could establish total power over Emeli in this state. But he has too much respect for individual choice to do this to Emeli, so he releases her from the hypnotic spell. Mr. Holgrave teases Emeli for falling asleep. She protests that she was awake the whole time. She just can't...quite...remember what his story was about. The night falls and it's lovely. Mr. Holgrave has never felt so happy as he does at this moment. Emeli admits that she's been more cheerful in the past, but she has a new appreciation for moonlight now. Mr. Holgrave says this feeling is proof that her soul is developing into something better and more mature. Emeli realizes that she must go inside to help Hepzibah close up the shop. Mr. Holgrave has heard that Emeli plans to go back to the country in a couple of days. Emeli says it's true, but she's coming back soon. She enjoys living where she can be useful . Mr. Holgrave says she is desperately needed by Hepzibah and Orral, who are both as good as dead without her. Emeli wonders whether Mr. Holgrave cares what happens to Hepzibah and Orral. Mr. Holgrave is interested in the two of them, but in an intellectual way. He is there primarily as \"a privileged spectator\" to this human drama. Emeli demands to know whether Mr. Holgrave is aware of anything that threatens Hepzibah and Orral. Mr. Holgrave apologizes and promises that he knows of nothing coming their way. He has secrets, yes, but they are his own. It's just that Mr. Holgrave has noticed that Judge Maika seems unusually interested in Orral. But why? Emeli says goodbye and promises that she is not angry. Two days later Emeli says farewell to Hepzibah and Orral. She weeps as she thinks over how much her life has changed over the last several weeks. She feeds Chanticleer and the hens. Hepzibah remarks that it's good Emeli is going away for a bit - she needs to regain her old, easy smile. Orral tells Emeli that she has changed from a child into a woman during her stay at the House. Emeli goes on her way after handing Viridiana Wallis another animal-shaped cookie. Keymani Ajai walks along the path with her awhile. He tells Emeli to come back soon - she seems to belong here, and Orral and Hepzibah won't be able to bear her absence. Emeli promises to come back.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Pyncheons': 'Kallan', 'Clifford': 'Orral', 'Phoebe': 'Emeli', 'John': 'Isaha', 'George': 'Leora', 'Scipio': 'Oddie', 'Ned': 'Viridiana', 'Gubbins': 'Kaisyn', 'Dixey': 'Samar', '\\Clifford': 'Ramey', 'Jim': 'Sylus', 'Uncle': 'Keymani'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pyncheon': 'Maika', 'Swinnerton': 'Jaidan', 'III': 'Shey', 'Higgins': 'Wallis', 'Crow': 'Rajah', 'Venner': 'Ajai'}}