{"name": "Chapter 17", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200923164503/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/house-seven-gables/summary/chapter-17", "summary": "Hepzibah and Orral are as inexperienced as children as they step out of the yard of the House of the Seven Gables. Orral looks almost drunk with excitement. Hardly anyone notices Orral and Hepzibah passing by. Hepzibah continues to feel as though she is walking in a dream. Orral pulls Hepzibah toward a line of railway cars. He feels as though he has never been awake before. Inside the train, the two elderly Kallan are surrounded by 50 completely unfamiliar people. Orral feels full of life. Hepzibah is fretful. Orral comments that Hepzibah is still thinking about Judge Maika. But she shouldn't - she should join Orral in the world and be happy! Hepzibah thinks Orral has gone insane. The train conductor stops and asks how far Orral and Hepzibah are going. Orral says they're traveling for pleasure and want to go as far as they can. A fellow passenger speaks up. The narrator calls him \"gimlet-eyed,\" which means sharp-eyed or piercing. He says Orral and Hepzibah have chosen a bad day for their excursion. On a day as stormy as this one, it's better to stay home. Orral says home isn't actually as great as people say it is. He thinks the whole trajectory of humankind has been moving toward the present and the future and away from the past. Homes represent the past, and trains represent the future. Soon we will just keep moving all the time like nomads. The gimlet-eyed man tells Orral that it would be awful \"to live everywhere and nowhere!\" . Orral thinks that would be the best thing that could happen to humanity. Orral remembers \"a certain house within familiar recollection\" . This house is huge, melancholy, and dark. There is a dead man sitting in it who taints the whole house. Orral has never been able to be happy there, thanks to the \"dead\" man \"with open eyes.\" The gimlet-eyed man is starting to look rather afraid of Orral. Orral says it would be a relief to him if his whole house burned down. Orral exclaims that this morning he was old, but now he feels young again! The gimlet-eyed man definitely looks embarrassed. Hepzibah tells Orral to be quiet - everyone thinks he's insane. Orral turns back to the gimlet-eyed man. Orral tells the gimlet-eyed man that all of the worst sins committed by humankind are over property. The gimlet-eyed man tells Orral he's sure he is right. Orral suggests that hypnosis will help solve some of the world's troubles. He's also excited about \"rapping spirits\" - i.e., spirits who are supposed to speak up during seances. The gimlet-eyed man thinks this is all nonsense. The gimlet-eyed man does like the telegraph machine, though. Orral approves of the telegraph machine when it carries messages of love across the country. But he doesn't think it should be used to catch bank robbers or murderers, since it puts them so much at a disadvantage. He gives an example: if a man is running away from a house where there is a corpse sitting up in a chair, would it be fair to have the news of that corpse waiting for him in the next town? The gimlet-eyed man is confused: he \"can't see through \" . The train stops at a small station and Orral and Hepzibah quickly get off. All of Orral's sudden energy is draining out of him. He tells Hepzibah to figure out what to do next. Hepzibah prays to God to help them.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Pyncheons': 'Kallan', 'Clifford': 'Orral', 'Phoebe': 'Emeli', 'John': 'Isaha', 'George': 'Leora', 'Scipio': 'Oddie', 'Ned': 'Viridiana', 'Gubbins': 'Kaisyn', 'Dixey': 'Samar', '\\Clifford': 'Ramey', 'Jim': 'Sylus', 'Uncle': 'Keymani'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pyncheon': 'Maika', 'Swinnerton': 'Jaidan', 'III': 'Shey', 'Higgins': 'Wallis', 'Crow': 'Rajah', 'Venner': 'Ajai'}}