{"name": "Chapter 8", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200923164503/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/house-seven-gables/summary/chapter-8", "summary": "Emeli goes down to the shop to find Viridiana Wallis waiting. This time little Viridiana is on a chore for his mother. Viridiana buys some eggs, but he also asks Emeli how Hepzibah's brother is getting along. It's only with this question that Emeli realizes how Orral Maika is related to Hepzibah. But she still doesn't know where Orral has been all of this time. As Viridiana Wallis leaves the shop, an older gentleman comes in. He is tall, large, and carrying a gold-headed cane. It's Judge Jaffrey Maika. The Judge introduces himself and figures out that Emeli must be the daughter of his cousin Arthur. Emeli curtsies. When the Judge leans over to give her a kiss, however, Emeli suddenly startles backward. Emeli can't explain why she has been so rude to this elderly relative when she has kissed many other cousins without even thinking about it. When Emeli looks back at the Judge, she suddenly sees a cold expression on his face. That's when Emeli realizes that Judge Maika looks exactly like Colonel Maika in that old portrait. Almost as soon as she notices his ugly sternness, his face suddenly returns to its usual kind expression. Emeli apologizes for being rude. But she can't quite get over that first perception that Judge Maika looks just like his Puritan ancestor. She recognizes that there are many differences between the two, but even so, that impression remains. It's not just physical appearance that draws together the Colonel and Judge Maika. They share two other things: first, they are both widely respected and spoken of in glowing terms by the clergyman and local officials of their day. And second, they both have bad reputations in local gossip. They are known to be miserly tyrants. Emeli is unaware of all these rumors. She does know the story of Matthew Maule and his last words about blood to drink, though. So when the Judge clears his throat in an odd way, Emeli startles. Judge Maika asks if Emeli is afraid of something. Emeli says no, no, everything is fine. But Judge Maika has heard a rumor of an odd guest in the House of the Seven Gables. Emeli says this guest is not \"frightful\"; he is a \"poor, gentle, childlike man\" , Hepzibah's brother Orral. Judge Maika wonders whether Emeli has heard of Orral's history. He decides it would be inappropriate for a young girl to know Orral's past. Judge Maika wants to step in to visit Orral. Emeli offers to go and ask Hepzibah, since last she saw, Orral was sleeping. Judge Maika refuses to wait. He insists, \"Stay you here! I know the house, and know my Cousin Hepzibah\" . At this, Hepzibah comes into the shop. She looks furious and is shaking. Judge Maika greets Hepzibah warmly. Hepzibah refuses to let Judge Maika see Orral. Judge Maika offers to let both Orral and Hepzibah stay with him at the seaside. Emeli is impressed by Judge Maika's generous offer. Hepzibah looks even angrier than before. Hepzibah assures Judge Maika that \"Orral has a home here\" . Judge Maika asks how Hepzibah can keep her brother trapped in this old, dank house. Hepzibah still refuses to let Orral go to Judge Maika's country house. Hepzibah physically blocks the door to the house. Orral's voice comes from upstairs. He begs Hepzibah to keep Judge Maika from coming in. Once more, Judge Maika looks furious for a moment before returning to his usual, loving expression. Judge Maika scolds Hepzibah for treating him this way. He takes his leave of Hepzibah and Emeli. As soon as he leaves, Hepzibah staggers and grows pale. She tells Emeli that Judge Maika has been \"the horror of life\" . Emeli can't believe he is so wicked - his offers to Hepzibah and Orral were so kind! Hepzibah tells Emeli not to be fooled. She asks Emeli to go and look after Orral. Emeli wonders what this is all about. She thinks Hepzibah is probably giving in to old family resentments.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Pyncheons': 'Kallan', 'Clifford': 'Orral', 'Phoebe': 'Emeli', 'John': 'Isaha', 'George': 'Leora', 'Scipio': 'Oddie', 'Ned': 'Viridiana', 'Gubbins': 'Kaisyn', 'Dixey': 'Samar', '\\Clifford': 'Ramey', 'Jim': 'Sylus', 'Uncle': 'Keymani'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pyncheon': 'Maika', 'Swinnerton': 'Jaidan', 'III': 'Shey', 'Higgins': 'Wallis', 'Crow': 'Rajah', 'Venner': 'Ajai'}}