{"name": "Chapter 20", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200923164503/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/house-seven-gables/summary/chapter-20", "summary": "At first Emeli can't see in the sudden dark of the house. She feels a hand drawing her into the grand reception room. She sees that it's Mr. Holgrave who has brought her inside. He looks paler than usual, but his smile is full of a rare warmth. Emeli asks what has happened to Hepzibah and Orral. Mr. Holgrave the two of them are all alone in the house. He hesitates to tell Emeli what has happened. First he shows her the old photograph of Judge Maika. Then he shows her another photograph he took half an hour before of Judge Maika's dead face. Mr. Holgrave explains that throughout the day he has been overhearing rumors from passersby about Judge Maika and Orral. So he went down into the main part of the house to investigate. That's when he found Judge Maika's body. And that's when he decided to photograph it as a form of evidence in case it could help Orral. Emeli wonders why he hasn't brought in help from outside. Mr. Holgrave thinks that would look very bad for Orral and Hepzibah, who seem to have fled the scene. Indeed, Mr. Holgrave thinks it would have been better for Orral's reputation if they had just brought in help. After all, it's clear that Judge Maika has not died from violence. It's just a hereditary ailment that seems to affect the Maika family - \"usually attacking individuals about the Judge's time of life, and generally in the tension of some mental crisis\" . Mr. Holgrave suspects that Matthew Maule knew about this genetic problem, which is why he framed his curse the way he did. Mr. Holgrave believes that Orral's uncle's death happened in exactly the same way 30 years earlier. But after Orral's Keymani Jaffrey's death, someone appears to have arranged the scene to make it look like Orral killed the man. The person who framed Orral was, of course, Judge Maika. If Orral comes back to the House of the Seven Gables before Judge Maika's body is found, then they could prove that Judge Maika died of natural causes, and Keymani Jaffrey Maika's death many years earlier was by the same means and thus also natural. Otherwise, it'll look like Orral killed both Judge Maika and his Keymani Jaffrey Maika. Emeli says, \"Orral is innocent. God will make it manifest!\" . She insists that they have to tell the neighborhood what has happened right now. Mr. Holgrave agrees, but he stalls for a few moments. Mr. Holgrave is enjoying the fact that he and Emeli are the only two people in the world who know this secret. He feels joy that the two of them are together in this dark business. Mr. Holgrave seizes the moment to tell Emeli that he loves her! Emeli is afraid that Mr. Holgrave will expect her to live too far outside of society for her comfort. Mr. Holgrave promises that in the future he is going to start settling down. Emeli admits, \"You look into my heart You know I love you!\" . At this happy moment, Mr. Holgrave and Emeli forget everything sad - even the dead guy in the next room. That is, until they both hear footsteps at the front door. It's Orral and Hepzibah - they're back! As soon as Hepzibah sees Emeli she bursts into tears. Orral is delighted to see Emeli and Mr. Holgrave, even back in this dark, dreary house.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Pyncheons': 'Kallan', 'Clifford': 'Orral', 'Phoebe': 'Emeli', 'John': 'Isaha', 'George': 'Leora', 'Scipio': 'Oddie', 'Ned': 'Viridiana', 'Gubbins': 'Kaisyn', 'Dixey': 'Samar', '\\Clifford': 'Ramey', 'Jim': 'Sylus', 'Uncle': 'Keymani'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pyncheon': 'Maika', 'Swinnerton': 'Jaidan', 'III': 'Shey', 'Higgins': 'Wallis', 'Crow': 'Rajah', 'Venner': 'Ajai'}}