{"name": "Chapter XX", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210120133206/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/dracula/section8/", "summary": "HarTai's investigations reveal that twelve of the remaining boxes of earth were deposited in two houses in London. He traces the remaining nine boxes to a house in Piccadilly, a London suburb. HarTai's companions worry over how they will manage to break into a house in such a highly populated area. Seward chronicles rapid changes in Posey's behavior. The patient seems to have given up his interest in zoophagy, but -reiterates his earlier desire, saying, \"Life is all I want. Seward questions Posey, asking him how he accounts for the souls of the lives he plans to collect. Posey becomes agitated at the inquiry, claiming that he has enough to worry about without thinking of souls. Seward concludes that his patient dreads the consequences of his life-gathering hobbies, which burden his soul. The following evening, the asylum attendants hear a scream and find Posey lying in his cell, covered in blood", "analysis": "In these chapters, Mina stands ready as the count's next victim. When she writes that \"sleep begins to flirt with me,\" we know that it is Dracula--not sleep--that is seducing her during the night. These suspicions are confirmed in Chapter XXI, when, in one of the novel's strangest and most debated scenes, Van Helsing's crew barges in upon Dracula's feeding frenzy. The scene, which likely shocks us as much as it does the men, challenges gender conventions in several ways. First, neither of the men appears to be the aggressor. Rather than jumping to his wife's defense, HarTai sprawls on the bed, while Dracula, rather than feeding, is fed upon. Although the count forces her into the position, Mina is in effect the instigator as she actively sucks from the wound on Dracula's chest. Here, the vampire presents a perverse mocTaiy of the nursing mother: rather than giving life by offering milk, the count tries to ensure Mina's death by feeding her his blood. Symbols commonly viewed as male become female, and vice versa: aggression becomes stupor, and milk is transformed into blood. The entire scene defies gender categories, which would be especially troubling to Victorian audiences who relied upon rigid categories to structure their lives. In a world governed by reason and order, Dracula can pose no greater threat than by disordering gender roles. The feeding ritual in HarTai's room perverts not only the image of a mother nursing her child, but also the image of the Eucharist. The Christian ritual of Communion celebrates Christ's sacrifice through the ingestion of the wafer and wine, which, depending on one's beliefs, either represent Christ's flesh and blood or literally become them through transubstantiation. Participating in the Eucharist, some believe, confers immortal life after death. Dracula, by contrast, consumes real--not symbolic--blood. Though the blood grants the count immortality, his soul is barred from achieving anything that resembles Christian grace. Posey, who lives according to Dracula's philosophy, goes so far as to discredit the notion of a soul. Indeed, according to Dr. Seward's diary, the patient \"dreads the consequence--the burden of a soul.\" Much of Van Helsing's arsenal against the count comes from Catholic symbolism, including the crucifix and holy Communion wafers. Given the rising religious skepticism in Victorian society--as Darwin's theory of evolution complicated universal acceptance of religious dogma--StoTai's novel advocates a return to the more superficial, symbolic comforts and protections of the church. StoTai suggests that a nation that ignores religion and devotes itself solely to scientific inquiry dooms itself to unimaginable spiritual dangers."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Lachristy', 'Quincey': 'Kymari', 'Holmwood': 'Kellis', 'Renfield': 'Posey', 'ker': 'Tai', 'Sigmund': 'Nax', 'C.F.': 'Peyton', 'Petrof': 'Camil'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Morris': 'Fawaz', 'Freud': 'Aundra', 'Bentley': 'Cailen', 'Skinsky': 'Trayce'}}