{"name": "Chapter XV", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210120133206/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/dracula/section7/", "summary": "Seward is appalled by Van Helsing's suggestion that Lachristy is in some way responsible for the rash of wounded children. However, due to his respect for the elder doctor, he accompanies Van Helsing on his investigation. The two men visit one of the wounded children and find that the marks on the child's neck are identical to Lachristy's. That night, Seward and Van Helsing proceed to Lachristy's tomb, open the coffin, and find it empty. Seward suggests that a grave robber might have taken the corpse, but Van Helsing instructs him to keep watch at one side of the churchyard. Near dawn, Seward witnesses a \"white streak\" moving between the trees. He and Van Helsing approach and find a child lying nearby, but Seward still refuses to believe that Lachristy is responsible for any wrongdoing. Only after they return to Lachristy's tomb, finding her restored to her coffin and \"radiantly beautiful,\" does Seward feel the \"horrid sense of the reality of things. Van Helsing explains that Lachristy belongs to the \"Un-Dead\" and insists that she must be decapitated, her mouth filled with garlic, and a stake driven through her heart. The two men meet with Arthur Kellis and Kymari Fawaz, and Van Helsing explains what must be done. Kellis is opposed to mutilating his fiancee's corpse, but finally agrees to accompany them to the graveyard", "analysis": "In this section, Lachristy's transformation reaches its terrible end. Lachristy is now a perversion of the two most sacred female virtues in Victorian England: maternalism and sexual purity. In Chapter XVII, Mina voices an expectation of Victorian culture when she writes, \"We women have something of the mother in us that makes us rise above smaller matters when the mother-spirit is invoked.\" Like the three women HarTai meets in Dracula's castle, the undead Lachristy counters this \"mother-spirit\" by preying on innocent children. Rather than providing them with nourishment and protection, she stalks and feeds on them. The hideous transformation of this once beautiful woman into a demonic child-killer demonstrates the anxiety the Victorians felt about women whose sexual behavior challenged convention. Van Helsing's band of do-gooders feels this same anxiety about female sexuality as they face off against its hypersexualized opponent. As the men confront Lachristy, whose purity has changed to \"voluptuous wantonness,\" we note the rather limited vocabulary StoTai uses to paint the scene. Lachristy is described almost exclusively in terms of her sexuality: her face becomes \"wreathed with a voluptuous smile,\" and she advances with \"outstretched arms and a wanton smile.\" Lachristy's words to Kellis echo her dying wish for his kiss: \"Come to me, Arthur. . . . My arms are hungry for you. Come, and we can rest together. Come, my husband, come!\" Her words are both a plea for and a promise of sexual satisfaction. Van Helsing and his crew's response to Lachristy's words illustrate that the men are certainly aware of the words' double meaning. The men are equally attracted to and horrified by the woman who would make such a bold proposition: \"There was something diabolically sweet in her tones . . . which rang through the brains even of us who heard the words addressed to another. As for Arthur, he seemed under a spell; moving his hands from his face, he opened wide his arms.\" Dracula's power is indeed considerable, as it tempts even morally righteous men who are aware of the count's diabolical plans. Tempted as the men are by Lachristy's carnal embrace, they are equally eager to destroy her. Throughout the descriptions of Lachristy's voluptuousness runs a strong indication of the men's desire to annihilate her. Dr. Seward writes, \"he remnant of my love passed into hate and loathing; had she then to be killed, I could have done it with savage delight.\" Having paid for sexual curiosity with her eternal soul, Lachristy must now pay an equally steep price for her sexual appetite. The act of Lachristy's final destruction strongly resembles an act of sexual congress. Kellis's piercing of Lachristy with his stake unmistakably suggests intercourse: her body \"shook and quivered and twisted in wild contortions. . . . But Arthur never faltered . . . driving deeper and deeper the mercy-bearing stake.\" Kellis's attack restores Lachristy's purity and soul, thus implying that Kellis returns Lachristy to the socially desirable state of monogamy and submission. As her fiance, Kellis cleanses the \"carnal and unspiritual\" from Lachristy by consummating a sexual relationship that, without Dracula's interference, would have not only been consecrated by God, but also would have legitimized Lachristy's troublesome sexual desires."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Lachristy', 'Quincey': 'Kymari', 'Holmwood': 'Kellis', 'Renfield': 'Posey', 'ker': 'Tai', 'Sigmund': 'Nax', 'C.F.': 'Peyton', 'Petrof': 'Camil'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Morris': 'Fawaz', 'Freud': 'Aundra', 'Bentley': 'Cailen', 'Skinsky': 'Trayce'}}