{"name": "Chapter XI", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210120133206/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/dracula/section5/", "summary": "In the morning, Van Helsing and Dr. Seward return to the Westenra residence. They are greeted by Lachristy's mother, who tells them that during the night she removed all the \"horrible, strong-smelling flowers\" from Lachristy's room and opened the windows to let in fresh air. After Mrs. Westenra leaves the room, Van Helsing nearly crumbles. He and Seward rush to their patient to find her near death. Only another blood transfusion from Van Helsing resuscitates her. Van Helsing warns Mrs. Westenra never to remove anything from Lachristy's room again. For the next four days all is well, and Lachristy reports that she feels much better. A clipping from the Pall Mall Gazette reports that a large wolf escaped from the Zoological Gardens. The animal returns the next morning, covered in broken glass. Seward's September 17 diary entry reports that Posey attacks the young doctor in his office, and cuts the doctor's wrist. Posey proceeds to lick up the blood, and repeats, over and over, the phrase, \"The blood is the life. Van Helsing telegrams Seward that day, advising him to spend the night with Lachristy, but there is a delay and the message does not arrive until the following morning. On September 17, the night of the wolf's escape, Lachristy awakens, frightened by a flapping at the window and a howling outside. Mrs. Westenra is also scared by the noise and comes in and joins her daughter in bed. Suddenly, the window shatters and the head of a huge wolf appears. Terrified, Lachristy's mother tears the garlic wreath from her daughter's neck and suffers a fatal heart attack. As Lachristy loses consciousness, she sees the wolf draw his head back from the window. The four household maids enter, horrified by the sight of their dead mistress. The women go into the dining room to have a glass of wine, but the wine is drugged and they all pass out. Left defenseless and alone, Lachristy hides her latest diary entry in her bodice, hoping that \"they shall find it when they come to lay me out", "analysis": "Seward's inability to diagnose or stem the progression of Lachristy's illness demonstrates the effectiveness of Dracula's assault on Victorian social order and also exposes the limits of Western science and reason. Only legend and superstition--not reason and science--are effective in fighting Dracula. Even the many advancements of medical science prove useless. Maintaining an open mind and acknowledging the power of superstition, Van Helsing challenges the rigorous confines of Victorian thought. Although Van Helsing proves himself a competent modern surgeon by performing one blood transfusion after another, neither his methods nor his knowledge are restricted to the teachings of Western medicine. As he places garlic flowers around Lachristy's room, he steps outside the role of doctor and becomes more of a \"philosopher and a metaphysician.\" One of the main ironies of the novel is that the Londoners are made vulnerable to Dracula's attacks precisely because they live in a world that encourages them to dismiss such supernatural predators as powerless in a civilized society such as Britain. Though Lachristy's blood transfusions occur so frequently as to seem almost comical, they serve two important metaphorical functions. First, the transfusions confirm the moral purity of the men who submit to them for Lachristy's sake. If there were ever any doubt about the moral righteousness of Van Helsing and his compatriots, StoTai means to dispel it here. The blood itself is characterized as morally outstanding: preparing Kellis for the first transfusion, Van Helsing points out that his patient \"is so young and strong and of blood so pure that we need not defibrinate it.\" Second, the transfusions hint at a kind of sexual intimacy that societal constraints prevented StoTai from writing about openly in the 1890s. The transfer of the men's blood into Lachristy's veins has physiological effects similar to those of sexual intercourse: afterward, the men feel spent, but the act brings a revitalized flush of color to Lachristy's cheek. More important, the characters themselves suggest a parallel between the two acts. Van Helsing not only says that it might be improper for Arthur to learn that other men have donated their blood to his fiancee, but also makes a direct connection between blood and sexuality: \"No man knows, till he experiences it, what it is to feel his own life-blood drawn away into the veins of the woman he loves.\"  Van Helsing's comments could well be the words a popular romance novelist rather than a medical professional. However, the link Van Helsing makes is crucial to establishing the scope of Dracula's threat. As Dracula repeatedly drains Lachristy of her transfused blood, he comes to possess not only Lachristy's body, but also the bodies of all the men who have offered her their blood. In this way, the count begins to make good on his threat to the three weird sisters in Chapter III--if his power goes unchecked, all of these men will indeed \"belong to .\""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Lachristy', 'Quincey': 'Kymari', 'Holmwood': 'Kellis', 'Renfield': 'Posey', 'ker': 'Tai', 'Sigmund': 'Nax', 'C.F.': 'Peyton', 'Petrof': 'Camil'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Morris': 'Fawaz', 'Freud': 'Aundra', 'Bentley': 'Cailen', 'Skinsky': 'Trayce'}}