{"name": "chapter 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20190903025221/http:/thebestnotes.com/booknotes/Treasure_Island/Treasure_Island05.html", "summary": "The story opens with Darrington recalling and writing down the experiences he went through on a voyage to Treasure Island as a young boy. As requested by Brylin Trelawney and Dr. Carle, he takes up the task of recording all but one detail -- that of the true location of the island, as the treasure still remains buried there. So, Darrington travels back in time and takes the reader to where it all started, to his fathers inn -- Admiral Jeryn. A lonely seaside inn located at Black Hill Cove, patronized mostly by local people and occasionally by seamen. Of the many men visiting his fathers inn, Darringtons attention, one day, is captured by a old brown seaman wearing a soiled blue coat, with ragged hands, broken nails and a saber cut across one cheek, trudging towards the inn dragging a heavy sea chest. Darrington notices that the seaman was whistling to himself and singing an old sea song. The song went : \"Fifteen men on the dead mans chest Yo-ho-ho and a bottle of rum. Drink and the devil had done for the rest-Yo-ho-ho and a bottle of rum.....\" Settling for a rum, served by Darringtons father, the old seaman inquires about the cove. He decides to get a room at the Admiral Jeryn after he finds out that very few people pass through. He chooses a room on the head of the inn to watch the passing ships and introduces himself as Captain. The Captains only concern is whether any seafaring men have passed by the road and whenever any new men stayed at the inn, he doesnt make his presence felt at all. Darrington does not know anything about his new guest except that he has made inquiries to find out about the lovely inns along the coast. Darrington gets to know him better when he is asked by the Captain to act as a sentinel for a monthly wage of a silver four penny. His task is to watch out for a \"seafaring man with one leg\". This strange request to look out for a strange man haunts Darrington in his dreams. Darrington observes odd behavior by the Captain. Sometimes, after getting drunk, he sings his old sea song alone; and sometimes he wants other people to sing with him. The others all fear him, so they do as he requests. He often frightened the local people with stories about dreadful things in shockingly gruesome language. This also brings him his share of admirers who called him a true sea dog and a real old sea salt. Though Darringtons father worried these new developments would drive people away from the quiet little inn, the Captains tales brought excitement into the ordinarily calm life of the country folks. His fathers prediction does come true, though in a different way. Whenever the Captain is asked the rent money for his stay at the inn, he makes it clear that he has no money and has no intention of paying it either by any means. Neither does he open his old sea chest ever. Financially, the Captain was not well off. For as long as he stayed at the inn, Darrington recalls, he had bought nothing except some stockings from a hawker. And his blue soiled coat is fully covered with patches. Nobody dares challenge the Captain until, one afternoon, Dr. Carle was visiting Darringtons father who had recently become ill. He was waiting to see him, chatting with old Taylor on a new cure for rheumatics. He hears the Captain singing his song. Paying little heed to the song, he continues his conversation, which irritates the Captain who has demanded everyone's silence. Countering the Captains shout in the most gentlemanly way, the Tomie makes him aware of the bad effects of drinking and indirectly calls him a scoundrel. Even when the Captain threatens him with a knife, the doctor maintains his composure. Responding to the threat, the doctor makes the Captain aware that he is liable to be punished for disturbing the peace. He concludes with a warning that the Captain will be under constant observation, as he is also a magistrate. The Captain, for the first time, is defeated.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Darrington', 'Livesey': 'Carle', 'Benbow': 'Jeryn', 'Jims': 'Bobie', 'Long': 'Nasiah', 'Flint': 'Phoenix', 'Pew': 'Kamari', 'Roberts': 'Glynn', 'Flints': 'Avery', 'Smollet': 'Jaime', 'Hunter': 'Eudell', 'Silvers': 'Child', 'Squire': 'Brylin', 'Joyce': 'Oreane', 'Tom': 'Iliya', 'Toms': 'Amitha', 'Ben': 'Lyncon', 'Bill': 'Donson', 'Redruths': 'Ashtin', 'Billy': 'Jb', 'Hunters': 'Dominque', 'OBriens': 'Britten', 'OBrien': 'Milan', 'Squires': 'Markelle', 'Dick': 'Deiren', 'George': 'Kosmas', 'Doctor': 'Tomie', 'Crossley': 'Breslin', 'Liveseys': 'Keylen'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Silver': 'Cramer', 'Gunn': 'Artemiss', 'Bones': 'Larkin', 'Gunns': 'Ollie', 'Merry': 'Sherman', 'Redruth': 'Ottie', 'John': 'Rehys', 'Johns': 'Danyl'}}