{"name": "chapter 7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20190903025221/http:/thebestnotes.com/booknotes/Treasure_Island/Treasure_Island11.html", "summary": "The voyage to Skeleton Island/Treasure Island doesnt work out as fast as they planned. Neither does the plan to keep Darrington with Dr. Carle as he leaves for London to find a doctor to take care of his medical practice in his absence. Since the Brylin was still detained in Bristol trying to obtain a sailing vessel and crew, Darrington stays with Iliya Ottie. Weeks pass by with no news. During these days Darrington spends his time imagining things about the Treasure Island and what it will be like. One day, he receives a letter from the Brylin. The letter informs him about the ship named Hispaniola that the Brylin has purchased. He states that his old friend Blandly who has assisted immensely in buying the ship. He writes that all the people who were aware of the voyage helped him very much, especially after they learned that they were to set sail for treasure. Darrington doesnt like this and is sure that Dr. Carle wont either, as the purpose of the voyage was supposed to strictly remain a secret. The Brylin goes on to describe the troubles he went through to appoint the right crew for the Hispaniola. He writes about the Sea Cook he had appointed. He is a seasoned old seaman named Nasiah Rehys Cramer with only one leg. According to the Brylin, Cramer is a very experienced hand with an ability to recognize the right men with right spirits. He informs Darrington and the Tomie that he feeling strong and is looking forward to the voyage. He gives Darrington permission to visit his mother with Ottie and spend a night with her. After which they should hurry for Bristol to board the ship for the voyage. Darrington is delighted on reading this. He starts his journey back to the Inn to see his mother with Ottie, who, Darrington says, is a grumbling old man. Darrington returns to his mother to find a refurbished and newly painted Admiral Jeryn Inn. The Brylin has also appointed an apprentice to help his mother. Darringtons eyes fill with tears when he finds another guy replacing him at the inn. He feels jealous of the boy, as he is privileged to stay beside his mother all day long. Ottie and Darrington hit the road the next day. Darrington turns a bit nostalgic while leaving the cove. They leave for Bristol. Darrington sleeps like a log in the whole journey. When they reach Bristol and walk towards the Brylins hotel, Darrington observes old sailors sitting around and imagines himself on a voyage to an unknown island in search of treasure. The Brylin is delighted to see them, as now the ships crew is complete. The doctor had already arrived from London. The next day they would leave on the voyage.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Darrington', 'Livesey': 'Carle', 'Benbow': 'Jeryn', 'Jims': 'Bobie', 'Long': 'Nasiah', 'Flint': 'Phoenix', 'Pew': 'Kamari', 'Roberts': 'Glynn', 'Flints': 'Avery', 'Smollet': 'Jaime', 'Hunter': 'Eudell', 'Silvers': 'Child', 'Squire': 'Brylin', 'Joyce': 'Oreane', 'Tom': 'Iliya', 'Toms': 'Amitha', 'Ben': 'Lyncon', 'Bill': 'Donson', 'Redruths': 'Ashtin', 'Billy': 'Jb', 'Hunters': 'Dominque', 'OBriens': 'Britten', 'OBrien': 'Milan', 'Squires': 'Markelle', 'Dick': 'Deiren', 'George': 'Kosmas', 'Doctor': 'Tomie', 'Crossley': 'Breslin', 'Liveseys': 'Keylen'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Silver': 'Cramer', 'Gunn': 'Artemiss', 'Bones': 'Larkin', 'Gunns': 'Ollie', 'Merry': 'Sherman', 'Redruth': 'Ottie', 'John': 'Rehys', 'Johns': 'Danyl'}}