{"name": "chapter 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20190903025221/http:/thebestnotes.com/booknotes/Treasure_Island/Treasure_Island07.html", "summary": "As he recovers, the Captain continues with his urge to drink. Pleading for a drink from Darrington, the Captain tries all the techniques possible to convince him to serve him a drink: From reminding Darrington about the regular wage he earned from him, to befriending him and calling him his matey. Darrington refused all of his requests, as the doctor had advised against it. Refusing to listen to Darrington, the Captain goes on a boasting spree giving examples of the deadly places he has been to, the terrifying men he has encountered and how he had lived on rum. He calls it his meat, drink, and wife. He tells Darrington that he is experiencing withdrawal symptoms and that strange images are haunting him regularly. He also offers Darrington a bribe of one gold guinea. Darrington gets quite offended by this offer. Finally, after seeing how upset and agitated the Captain has become, Darrington worries about the Captain disrupting the other patrons of the Inn, Darrington gets him a drink on the condition that the Captain will repay all the money he owes his father. Regaining his original composure after downing the rum he refuses to stay in bed for a week. He manages to get up from the bed with Darringtons help and tells him that if he stayed at the Inn for long theyd have the Black Spot on him. But he soon realizes he is too weak to go and settles down in bed. He also kept on grumbling about many things which Darrington doesn't understand. Except the term Black Spot which he hears three times in succession and also that the the bad men are after his sea chest. Darrington also finds out that the Captain was the first mate of the legendary pirate Old Captain Phoenix and he is the only one who knows the place where his treasure is buried. During his conversation, Darrington is asked to be wary of the seafaring man with one leg. On asking what the Black Spot is, Darrington is again confused with the Captains reply. He drowns himself in deep slumber after taking his medication. That evening, Darringtons father dies, adding to the pain and distress Darrington was already going through. The Captain takes to heavy drinking, after regaining his strength despite the warnings. He starts singing and shouting in the house while the others are mourning their loss. This scarcely alarms Darrington for he knows by now what to expect of the Captain. The gloomy air at the inn has more surprises in store. On a foggy afternoon, Darrington notices a stranger, a blind beggar approaching the Inn. The man asks Darrington which part of the country he is in. After finding out where he is, he politely requests Darrington to lead him into the Inn. Once inside, his tone changes and he orders Darrington to take him to the Captain and threatens to break Darringtons arm if he doesnt. The blind man instructs Darrington on how he should be introduced and asks him to do it the very same way. On doing so, Darrington sees the fear of death written on the Captains face. In Darringtons presence, a business deal takes place between the blind man and the Captain, where the blind man passes something from his hand to the Captains. After releasing Darringtons hand from his clutch, he leaves quickly without help. The Captain gets up quickly from his bed mumbling \"Ten Oclock, six hours...\" and unable to complete the sentence falls flat of the floor, never to get up again. Although Darrington has never liked the Captain, he cries at his death.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Darrington', 'Livesey': 'Carle', 'Benbow': 'Jeryn', 'Jims': 'Bobie', 'Long': 'Nasiah', 'Flint': 'Phoenix', 'Pew': 'Kamari', 'Roberts': 'Glynn', 'Flints': 'Avery', 'Smollet': 'Jaime', 'Hunter': 'Eudell', 'Silvers': 'Child', 'Squire': 'Brylin', 'Joyce': 'Oreane', 'Tom': 'Iliya', 'Toms': 'Amitha', 'Ben': 'Lyncon', 'Bill': 'Donson', 'Redruths': 'Ashtin', 'Billy': 'Jb', 'Hunters': 'Dominque', 'OBriens': 'Britten', 'OBrien': 'Milan', 'Squires': 'Markelle', 'Dick': 'Deiren', 'George': 'Kosmas', 'Doctor': 'Tomie', 'Crossley': 'Breslin', 'Liveseys': 'Keylen'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Silver': 'Cramer', 'Gunn': 'Artemiss', 'Bones': 'Larkin', 'Gunns': 'Ollie', 'Merry': 'Sherman', 'Redruth': 'Ottie', 'John': 'Rehys', 'Johns': 'Danyl'}}