{"name": "chapter 28", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20190903025221/http:/thebestnotes.com/booknotes/Treasure_Island/Treasure_Island32.html", "summary": "Darrington finds the stockade with all its provisions under the control of Cramer and his men. Darrington assumes that Captain Jaime and his men are dead and wishes he could have joined them. There were six buccaneers in the camp and one of them is severely injured. As the torch lights up the interior of the stockade, Cramer recognizes Darrington. He welcomes Darrington, sarcastically to his camp. Taking a swig of alcohol, he tells Darrington that he had always liked Darrington for his youthful spirit. He informs Darrington that Captain Jaime and the doctor had written him off as an ungrateful lad who caused trouble. Cramer asks Darrington to join him. Darrington is relieved to hear that his friends are still alive. When Darrington is allowed to speak, he asks Cramer about his friends. Cramer recounts the past evenings happenings when Dr. Carle had approached them with a flag of truce asking for food, brandy and firewood, after which they disappeared Cramer reiterates the fact that they didn't care about Darrington. When Darrington is asked to choose between Cramer and the Brylin, Darrington tells him about everything. From overhearing the conversation at the apple barrel to cutting the ship loose. He says that the laugh is on his side and that Cramer is free to kill him. Cramer and his men are startled to hear Darrington. They realize that he is the lad who grabbed the chart from Donsony Larkin and also the one who knew Black Dog. When Morgan charges at Darrington with a knife, Cramer stops him. When two other pirates support Iliya Morgans move to kill Darrington, Cramer is quick to cut them in the middle like an experienced Captain. Cramer tells them that Darrington was more a man than any of them. After a long pause, when Cramer asks them if they had to say anything to say, they express their dissatisfaction. One by one they walk out of the house leaving Cramer and Darrington alone. Cramer makes Darrington aware of the situation. He tells him that the men were against him and that they have to stick together thereafter. Cramer asks Darrington to save him from the gallows in exchange of Darringtons safety. Darrington is perplexed, and Cramer goes on to tell him that he was now on the Brylins side and had never trusted his men. Darrington is again confused when he asks him the reason for the Tomie giving him the original treasure map. Darrington does not understand and stares at him in confusion.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Darrington', 'Livesey': 'Carle', 'Benbow': 'Jeryn', 'Jims': 'Bobie', 'Long': 'Nasiah', 'Flint': 'Phoenix', 'Pew': 'Kamari', 'Roberts': 'Glynn', 'Flints': 'Avery', 'Smollet': 'Jaime', 'Hunter': 'Eudell', 'Silvers': 'Child', 'Squire': 'Brylin', 'Joyce': 'Oreane', 'Tom': 'Iliya', 'Toms': 'Amitha', 'Ben': 'Lyncon', 'Bill': 'Donson', 'Redruths': 'Ashtin', 'Billy': 'Jb', 'Hunters': 'Dominque', 'OBriens': 'Britten', 'OBrien': 'Milan', 'Squires': 'Markelle', 'Dick': 'Deiren', 'George': 'Kosmas', 'Doctor': 'Tomie', 'Crossley': 'Breslin', 'Liveseys': 'Keylen'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Silver': 'Cramer', 'Gunn': 'Artemiss', 'Bones': 'Larkin', 'Gunns': 'Ollie', 'Merry': 'Sherman', 'Redruth': 'Ottie', 'John': 'Rehys', 'Johns': 'Danyl'}}