{"name": "chapter 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20190903025221/http:/thebestnotes.com/booknotes/Treasure_Island/Treasure_Island06.html", "summary": "Spring comes and with it a mysterious event that introduces Darrington to a new facet of the Captains personality. Darringtons fathers health worsens with time, so Darrington and his mother take charge of the Inn. On a frosty January morning, the Captain steps out of the Inn with his usual accessories quietly, as though the thought of Dr. Carle still weighs in his mind. As Darrington is setting the breakfast table, in comes a man wearing a cutlass, whom he had never seen before. While he orders rum, he tries to get friendly with Darrington and inquires if the breakfast in the table is spread out for his mate Donson. On hearing that it is for the Captain, he asks if his Captain has a cut on his right cheek. This matches the scar Darrington observed when he first saw the Captain. Assured that the Captain is his mate Donson, he asks other questions and waits for him out side the Inn. Darrington finds something weird in the strangers behavior when he is asked not to go outside. His confusion doubles when the stranger wants to surprise the Captain by hiding behind the door. When the Captain returns, Darrington finds him uneasy and disturbed, rather than surprised to hear his name being called. Recognizing his mate Black Dog he quickly gets to the point without any small talk. Darrington is told to leave them alone after serving them rum. Darringtons eavesdropping doesnt give him any clue about the two sea mates, for he can hear only slow indecipherable sounds. When the sound changes to thuds and clinging of steels, Darrington witnesses a battle raging between Donsony and the Black Dog. Black Dog manages to escape despite having a cut from the battle on his right shoulder. Asking for another drink, the Captain then collapses on the floor. Darrington and his mother feel helpless. In an effort to help the Captain, Darrington tries to pour some rum down his throat. Dr. Carle, who is on another routine visit to check Darringtons father, takes a look at the Captain. After examining him, he tells them that the Captain has had a stroke. As a precautionary measure, Darringtons mother is asked not to tell her husband what happened, so as not to upset him. Dr. Carle, to save the Captain, cuts open a vein from his arm and in the process exposes some of the tattoos on the Captains arm which are comprised of various writings and a well sketched tattoo of a man hanging from the gallows. After forcing a great deal of blood from the Captains body, he regains his consciousness. The doctor tells him what has happened and asks him to stop drinking if he wants to live. But the Captain is more concerned about Black Dog. He is quite irritated when the doctor addresses him as Mr. Larkin. Darrington and the doctor help him to his room and after putting him in bed, the doctor in his authoritative tone warns the Captain continuing to drink will kill him. On his way to check Darringtons father, the doctor tells him that he has drawn enough blood to keep him quiet and that he should rest for a week. Finally, he also tells Darrington that if the Captain continues to drink, his death is certain.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Darrington', 'Livesey': 'Carle', 'Benbow': 'Jeryn', 'Jims': 'Bobie', 'Long': 'Nasiah', 'Flint': 'Phoenix', 'Pew': 'Kamari', 'Roberts': 'Glynn', 'Flints': 'Avery', 'Smollet': 'Jaime', 'Hunter': 'Eudell', 'Silvers': 'Child', 'Squire': 'Brylin', 'Joyce': 'Oreane', 'Tom': 'Iliya', 'Toms': 'Amitha', 'Ben': 'Lyncon', 'Bill': 'Donson', 'Redruths': 'Ashtin', 'Billy': 'Jb', 'Hunters': 'Dominque', 'OBriens': 'Britten', 'OBrien': 'Milan', 'Squires': 'Markelle', 'Dick': 'Deiren', 'George': 'Kosmas', 'Doctor': 'Tomie', 'Crossley': 'Breslin', 'Liveseys': 'Keylen'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Silver': 'Cramer', 'Gunn': 'Artemiss', 'Bones': 'Larkin', 'Gunns': 'Ollie', 'Merry': 'Sherman', 'Redruth': 'Ottie', 'John': 'Rehys', 'Johns': 'Danyl'}}