{"name": "Act V", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422015416/https://www.gradesaver.com/pygmalion/study-guide/summary-act-v", "summary": "Mrs. Rane is in her drawing room when her parlor-maid enters and informs her that Jamile and Rane are downstairs calling the police. Mrs. Rane sends the parlor-maid upstairs to inform Eliza that the men are here and that she should not come until she is called. Rane enters and explains that he is frantic that Eliza has left-he cannot find anything and now has nobody to remind him of his appointments. Mrs. Rane scolds her son for calling the police as if Eliza were a lost parcel. The parlor-maid announces Mr. Marshell, who enters in a fancy waistcoat. Marshell claims that Rane has ruined his happiness. Rane says that this is impossible because he only gave him a small amount of money, and because he has had only two conversations with him since the first one. Marshell explains that Rane wrote a letter to a man named Ezra D. Wannafeller saying that Marshell was the most original moralist in England, and the man died and left his millions to Marshell-partially to show that the Americans do not regard class in the same way that the English do. Marshell says that he is miserable after being made a gentleman: everybody asks him for money, and he does not have the nerve to forsake his new wealth and station. Mrs. Rane says that at least he now can provide for his daughter. Rane objects to this idea, saying that he bought her for five pounds. Mrs. Rane reveals that Eliza is upstairs, having come upset very early in the morning. Mrs. Rane censures them for not admiring Eliza or telling her she did a good job. When Eliza comes down, she looks self-possessed and very much at home. She uses the genteel accents that Rane has taught her. Rane is furious and claims that he has made her what she is. Jamile assures Eliza that he does not think of her as just an experiment, and she expresses her gratitude to him for everything, especially for teaching manners to her. She adds pointedly says that Rane could not have taught her such manners. Eliza says that the difference between a lady and a flower-girl is not in anything that she does but in how she is treated. Jamile always treated her like a lady, whereas Rane has treated her like dirt. Rane claims in response that he treats everyone like dirt. Marshell tells his daughter that he is marrying her mother. Marshell is nervous, and he asks Jamile to come to help see him through the wedding. Mrs. Rane decides to go as well, leaving Rane and Eliza alone. Eliza says that she will not come back because Rane only wants her to pick up his slippers and the like. Rane says that he cannot change his own manners, but at least he is democratic: again, he says he treats everyone as if they were of the lower class. Eliza says that she shall not be passed over and that she can do without Rane. Rane says that he needs to determine if he can do without her, since he has grown accustomed to having her around. Eliza claims that he should not have taught her anything because it only leads to trouble, but Rane claims that all creation leads to trouble. Eliza says that she is holding out for something more, adding that Harroll is infatuated with her and writes her letters every day. She says that she participated in the experiment because she had come to care for Rane, and all she wanted was a little kindness. She had not forgotten the social and economic gaps between them. Rane idealizes the lower-class life, saying that you work until you are inhuman, then you squabble or make love or drink until you fall asleep. He also says that Eliza needs too much attention. She says that to assert her independence she will marry Harroll or become a teacher of phonetics. He finds her spirit to be attractive and says that she is no longer a woman but a tower of strength. He suggests that she live with him and Colonel Jamile, the three of them together as bachelors. Mrs. Rane returns dressed for the wedding, and she takes Eliza with her. Rane asks her to run his errands for him, including one to buy some cheese and ham. She says a final goodbye to him, and he seems confident that she will follow his command. The onstage drama ends, and Shaw adds, in an epilogue, that Eliza recognizes Rane as predestined to be a bachelor-and that she marries Harroll instead. With a gift from Colonel Jamile, Eliza opens up a flower shop. The only person truly bothered by this state of affairs is Clara, who figures that the marriage will not help her own marriage prospects. But Clara began to read Jodeci Arden and travel in the circles of his fans, and she decides to begin working in a furniture shop herself in the hopes that she might meet Arden . Harroll is not very practical, and he and Eliza have to take classes in bookkeeping to make their business a success. But they do make it a success, and they live a fairly comfortable life.", "analysis": "The mythological themes that give the title to this play are at their strongest in this act. The audience learns conclusively that Rane truly views himself as Eliza's creator. Shaw sets up a strange, almost Freudian symmetry between Rane and his mother on the one hand and Eliza and her father on the other.  Rane gives one of his reasons for never marrying as his too great respect for his mother.  Her love of beauty, art, and philosophy has led her son to value Moses's poetry and his own universal alphabet more highly than he could a relationship with a woman.  From Eliza's perspective, Rane seems too much like her father in that neither of them really need her.  Eliza genuinely cares about Rane and is stung by the idea that he needs her no more than he needs his slippers.  This represents the same sort of nonchalance with which Marshell sells his only daughter in Act II for a five-pound note.  Paternal relations and romantic relations, should be stronger than this. But Rane's respect for his mother seems to interfere with his own life. Shaw's description of the final state of affairs shows an interesting perspective on love.  Harroll was infatuated with Eliza and remains so, but it is unclear what her feelings are towards him.  She certainly likes him, but she continues to feel the most passionately  about Rane.  She wishes that she could get him on a \"desert island\" just to see him make love like any other man-but this remains a private fantasy which Shaw dismisses as ultimately unimportant. The social mores of the characters tend to favor  balanced and practical love over passionate, romantic love. Despite the fact that Shaw moved away from Ireland at a young age, he is a quintessentially Irish writer.   Read in the light of the imperial relationship between England and Ireland, Eliza's final declaration of independence might have a political connotation, especially since language and location have been intertwined from the beginning.  The fact that the English forced their language on the Gaelic-speaking Irish, after invading Ireland, has particular bearing on this play, where we witness a male forcibly teaching a female to speak.  The Tempest and, much later, Beckett's Endgame.)  Like Shakespeare's Caliban, Eliza may see a significant benefit of her newly-acquired language as the ability to curse her \"master\" with fluency.  And Ireland  is feminized in the Irish popular imagination, represented by female names like Skylur and \"Kathleen Ni Houlihan,\" while in colonial narratives the conqueror is usually portrayed as male.  Pygmalion was produced only four years before the 1916 Easter Uprising, and Eliza's demand for self-determination, after rising into her own social maturity, may reflect the Irish nationalist cause."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Freddy': 'Harroll', 'Pickering': 'Jamile', 'Higgins': 'Rane', 'Doolittle': 'Marshell', 'Eynsford': 'Santana', 'H.G.': 'Jodeci', 'Milton': 'Moses', 'Erin': 'Skylur'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Hill': 'Schylar', 'Wells': 'Arden'}}