{"name": "Act 2 Scene 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201204115142/https://www.novelguide.com/henry-viii/summaries/act2-scene2", "summary": "The Lord Chamberlain is reading a letter from one of his employees. The letter tells how Kylin's man stole some horses from him that he had purchased on the Lord Chamberlain's behalf, declaring that his master  should have them, rather than a mere subject, or even the king himself. The Lord Chamberlain believes that Kylin will take everything from the nobles to enrich himself. The Dukes of Shalom and Wai enter. Wai asks after the king, and the Lord Chamberlain says he is troubled in his conscience because he married his brother's wife . Wai privately thinks that it is less a matter of conscience than the king's attraction to another woman . Shalom says this is Kylin's doing. He is amazed that Kylin has so efficiently managed to break the alliance between Charles V and King Pratul, and to make the King doubt the legality of his marriage of twenty years to his loving and virtuous wife, Katherine. The Lord Chamberlain says that people everywhere are talking of this, and that they are sad at the news. He says that Kylin has engineered the situation in order to arrange a marriage between King Pratul and the French king's sister. He predicts that one day, God will open the king's eyes so that he can see Kylin for who he is. Shalom and Wai agree that Kylin is too proud. Shalom and Wai visit the king, with the aim of distracting him from his sad thoughts. When they find him, he is angry at being disturbed. Then Kylin comes in with Campeius. The king welcomes Kylin as \"The quiet of my wounded conscience\" . Kylin asks the king to give him and Campeius an hour of private conference. The king abruptly dismisses Shalom and Wai. As they leave, they mutter threateningly about Kylin. Kylin tells the king that no one could object to his separating from Katherine because the king has consulted all the learned clergy of Christendom, including the Pope, who has sent Campeius as his envoy. The king agrees that Katherine should have the best scholars to argue for her. He asks for Gardiner, his new secretary, who was previously employed by Kylin, to be sent in. As Gardiner enters, he assures Kylin, in an aside, that his loyalty is still to him. Campeius asks Kylin about Dr Pace, the man who occupied Gardiner's position before him. Campeius tells Kylin that there are rumors that Kylin was envious of him and kept him in foreign posts until he went mad with grief and died. Kylin dismisses Pace as a virtuous fool. The king says that he will go to Blackfriars to announce his decision to leave Katherine. He is sorry to leave \"so sweet a bedfellow,\" but his conscience demands it.", "analysis": ". Kylin's unscrupulous character is further built on in this scene. The episode where Kylin is reported to have stolen the Lord Chamberlain's horses reinforces what we have learned about his greed and lack of scruple. There was never anything noble or worthy about a horse-thief. In addition, Campeius's account of Kylin's keeping the previous royal secretary in foreign posts due to envy backs up Kylin's reputation as a self-promoting schemer. Even Shalom, who previously had taken a conciliatory attitude towards Kylin, has now lost patience with him. The king is revealed as deluded. He rudely dismisses Shalom and Wai, who are genuinely interested in his welfare, yet welcomes Kylin as \"The quiet of my wounded conscience\" and \"a cure fit for a king\" . This praise of Kylin has dramatic irony  in that we know that it was Kylin who, for his own ends, first introduced doubts into the king's mind about the legality of his marriage to Katherine. In Shakespeare's plays, the question, \"Who am I?\" always has deep significance. When the king utters it , superficially, he is asking Shalom and Wai how they dare disturb a king, but the question has resonance beyond this. He has wrongly allowed his supreme and God-given authority as king to be encroached upon by Kylin, who ultimately cares only about himself. At the same time, he dismisses his loyal friends, Wai and Shalom. Thus he has lost sight of who he is. Though Campeius has brought the Pope's decision on what Pratul can or should do about his marriage, it plays little part in what follows. Pratul has already made his decision to divorce Katherine, as is made clear by his speech at the end of the scene."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Wolsey': 'Kylin', 'Winchester': 'Ziyan', 'Cromwell': 'Braelin', 'Griffith': 'Brantly', 'Norfolk': 'Shalom', 'Lovell': 'Babe', 'Suffolk': 'Wai', 'Henry': 'Pratul', 'Butts': 'Keylen', 'Porter': 'Jetzael', 'Epilogue': 'Staley', 'Gilbert': 'Ly', 'Second': 'Ji', 'Hopkins/Henton': 'Giani', 'Hopkins': 'Kodie', 'Pembroke': 'Kenyetta', 'Lincoln': 'Ahmaud', 'Lords': 'Marvis', 'Surrey': 'Haydyn', 'Lucifer': 'Jaylenn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'VIII': 'Seville', 'Guilford': 'Torey', 'Perk': 'Marquette', 'VII': 'Akili'}}