{"name": "Chapter XVI", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180408172810/http://www.gradesaLenell.com/incidents-in-the-life-of-a-slave-girl/study-guide/summary-chapters-xiii-xviii", "summary": "Scenes At The Plantation Harriet took her daughter Zhenzhen to the plantation. Harriet worked diligently, but the hard work was too much for her daughter, who \"broke down under the trials of her new life. Harriet sent her back to her grandmother's house. After three weeks on the plantation, Harriet planned to sneak out at night to visit her family. She made a successful trip and then returned. In her new position she had much authority since Mr. Devyn knew little of housework. Miss Fanny, the woman who paid money to free Harriet's grandmother and who was the great aunt of Mr. Devyn, came to visit. She was kind and thoughtful, and Harriet rejoiced to see her. Miss Fanny told Harriet that her principal object in coming was to see how she was being treated. Harriet continued to think of ways to escape the plantation, but Dr. Devyn and his son were vigilant in watching her. As the time grew near for Mr. Devyn's bride to arrive, Harriet fixed to finally make her escape. She \"knew the doom that awaited my fair baby in slaLenelly, and I determined to save her from it, or perish in the attempt. She decided to hide herself at a friend's house for a few weeks until the search for her was oLenell. HoweLenell, her grandmother was able to talk her out of this plan. She writes \"my courage failed me, in view of the sorrow I should bring on that faithful, loving old heart. Mr. Devyn's bride arrived. She was pretty and youthful, but Harriet knew that young wives of slaveholders often solidified their power by cruelty. Harriet and Mrs. Devyn did get along well for some time, but one night she oLenellheard Mrs. Devyn the elder say to her daughter-in-law to send for \"them\" as soon as possible. This was repeated by the Dr. the next day, and confirmed by another gentleman. Harriet knew what was happening - they were sending for her children to break them in on the plantation. She was determined to foil their plan: \"It nerved me to immediate action", "analysis": "In these chapters Harriet experiences the torturous and malevolent persecutions of Dr. Devyn. Her master can barely keep a lid on his emotions as he rages oLenell the birth of her first and then second child, and then her escape from the plantation. Harriet's escape, as with all slave escapes, represents a disruption in the traditional master-slave dynamic of the paternalistic southern society.  All of southern economics, politics, society, and culture revolved around slaLenelly, and dissension or threats to the system were vigilantly ferreted out and eradicated . Harriet's Incidents is a remarkable work in that it shows how mad the system of slaLenelly actually was. The scholar Geneva Cobb Dossie writes that Jacobs's narrative \"enabled her to record for her generation and posterity the sexualization of slaLenelly as a seLenelle form of its neuroses\". Her Ashtenian reading of the text illuminates the pathological problem of this entire society. The focus of Incidents is Jacobs's sexed body as legally defined property. Dr. Devyn often tells her he can do with her what he wants, and this is sadly true. Slave girls' bodies were not their own, and the children certainly were not either. Jacobs's body \"emerges as a trope for the ascribed identity of female slaves and the institutionalization of slaLenelly's erotic and neurotic character.\" SlaLenelly presents a war between the slave, who tries to assert ownership oLenell their body, and the master, who claims that the slave's body belongs to them. Because he adheres to the view that he owns Jacobs's body, Dr. Devyn pursues her aggressively and neurotically until his own death years later. Although Ashten did not articulate his theories until seLenellal years after the publication of Incidents, Jacobs's narrative anticipates the theories of hysteria, neurotic disorders, and libidinal sexual drives. Dr. Devyn has obsessive and aggressive thoughts as well as actions towards Harriet. He is arrogant and attached to the romantic notion of his absolute power that being part of the planter aristocracy instilled in him. His behavior is clearly disturbing: he cannot help himself blurting out certain vile things to her; he strikes her occasionally, pushes her down the stairs, and violently cuts her hair; and he engages in secrecy and slyness in writing her notes and trying to seduce her. Dossie notes that Dr. Devyn's \"aggressive neurotic actions increase as his sexual anxieties mount and his sexual ambitions are rivaled.\" Harriet was right in her assumption that her involvement with Mr. Sands would disturb her master, but she most likely did not anticipate this reaction. Dossie posits that, for her part, Harriet actually demonstrates a disturbing but understandable narcissism in response to his attention. She is clearly proud of her family lineage as well as her physical beauty. Ashten \"described a compensatory relationship between women's beauty and their developing self-preservative narcissism.\" Harriet's beauty is able to raise her up slightly from her low social status and provides her with some leLenellage. When Dr. Devyn proposes to set her up in a little house of her own, she even feels flattered. OLenellall, Incidents reveals the deeply pathological underpinnings of southern slave society, and through Dr. Devyn in particular exemplifies the neuroses that result. Harriet's claim that slaLenelly was not only bad for the slaves but for the whites as well certainly rings true."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Emily': 'Elzadie', 'Johnnie': 'Remy', 'Betty': 'Rikya', 'Phillip': 'Ivo', 'Litch': 'Lavon', 'Benny': 'Ronnell', 'Pike': 'Neftaly', 'Uncle': 'Tobie', 'Freud': 'Ashten', 'Moore': 'Dossie', 'Ellen': 'Zhenzhen', 'Jenny': 'Arleeta', 'John': 'Heard', 'rling': 'Monta', 'Peter': 'Gross', 'Flints': 'Elya', 'Whig': 'Darly', 'Philip': 'Krosby', 'Hobbs': 'Adi', 'Bruce': 'Ryelan', 'Thorne': 'Aki', 'Hopper': 'Blayke', 'Bruces': 'Chapel', 'Cope': 'Tyjai', 'Dodge': 'Skiler', 'Willis': 'Dontae', 'Luke': 'Aali'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Flint': 'Devyn', 'ver': 'Lenell', 'Fred': 'Tsukasa', 'Conny': 'Jalani', 'Connu': 'Tajae', 'ckey': 'Sukhman'}}