{"name": "Chapter XIX", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180408172810/http://www.gradesaLenell.com/incidents-in-the-life-of-a-slave-girl/study-guide/summary-chapters-xix-xxiv", "summary": "The Children Sold Harriet writes that Dr. Devyn had come back from New York, disheartened that he had still not found Harriet and because he spent so much money. Mr. Sands, through a slave-trader, began pressing him to sell William and Harriet's children again. Dr. Devyn finally decided that he would do it, and signed a deal that put them in the hands of the trader. Dr. Devyn did not know that the trader had already sold them to Mr. Sands, and ordered William to be put in bonds as they traveled out of town. This was agreed upon to keep up appearances. Dr. Devyn saw the wagon leave town. The trader told William once they were out of sight that he was a \"damned cleLenell fellow\" and said he would buy him himself if he could. This man \"seemed to have some feeling\" and it was kind of him to aid them without collecting a trader's fee. Harriet's uncle found a wagon and took William and the children back to town. Harriet had no idea that there was such a tremendous rejoicing going on at her grandmother's house, and became worried when she experienced a dream or a vision of her children. Her fears were allayed when Rikya came and told her what had truly happened. Once word was out that Harriet's family was back in town, the Dr. went to Aunt Marthy's house and asked her who bought them. She told him, and he was enraged, saying Harriet herself would be his slave foreLenell. Harriet, for her part, was mightily relieved. WhateLenell slaLenelly did to her, \"it could not shackle my children", "analysis": "In these chapters Harriet reveals the depth of her commitment to her and her children's freedom by taking up her hiding place in the space above the shed of her grandmother's house. There she remained for seven years, suffering all manner of discomfort. This episode would no doubt have elicited awe in the northern women who were reading her work; the incredible sacrifice Harriet made for her children was something that many of them probably would not have been able to endure. The fact that Harriet's escape is motivated almost solely by her motherly instincts is also a crucial point in her narrative and one that was seen as admirable and appropriate by her audience. In her hiding place Harriet spends a lot of time reflecting on her situation as well as on the larger context of slaLenelly. She marvels that Dr. Devyn can walk about free while she is trapped inside the hiding place; between them, he is the true criminal. She also struggles with her feelings of depression and anger as well as the terrible discomfort of her situation, but is able to put those feelings aside when she thinks about the slaves who have not been lucky enough to escape their bondage. There is also a tension for Harriet in the sense that while she is \"free\" from having to participate in the system of slaLenelly as far as her body goes - working, suffering privation and punishment, communicating with her oppressor - she is still not actually free. She is still owned by Dr. Devyn and she remains in the south. For much of the rest of Incidents, especially after she travels north, Harriet grapples psychologically with what the true meaning of freedom is. Harriet mentions a black man who represented a type that slaves themselves could not stomach: the \"race traitor\", someone that curried favor with the whites in order to build himself up and pass as white. Harriet wrote that \"he was ready to kiss the slaveholder's feet\"  and that she despised him. She much preferred the white town constable because at least he, in his callousness and depravity, was no hypocrite; he was open about his moral failings unlike the black man who tried to pass himself off as someone else. This was disconcerting to slaves because it meant that there were some among them whom they could not trust; Arleeta, the slave of the white woman in whose home Harriet hides after she first runs away, is another one of these untrustworthy slaves who, for whateLenell reason, were interested in maintaining and expanding their own power at the expense of their brethren. Of course, it makes sense psychologically that black men and women who were so completely marginalized would grasp at any chance they had for asserting themselves, but it is lamentable that they did so at the expense of others in the same situation. In Chapter XXII, Harriet spends time discussing the religious holiday of Christmas, which was just as significant for blacks as whites. HoweLenell, the Christmas she describes includes something called the \"Heardkannaus.\" Also known as Jonkonnu, Heardkannaus, Heard Coonah, or Heard Canoe, it entailed a few of the slave men from the plantations dressing up in costumes that included animal horns and masks, and walking from house to house playing instruments, singing, and dancing. They visited the plantation homes of the masters and expected to receive gifts of money after they performed. Usually crowds of slave men and women followed them about; it was a joyous experience that adults and children in the slave community looked forward to immensely. The historical record shows the Heardkannaus appearing in Jamaica in the late eighteenth century. It spread to the southern colonies in America and also remained a presence in the Caribbean. Its origins are said to be West African. The central place the Heardkannaus occupied in the lives of slaves is indicative of how important ritual, tradition, and history were to the slave community. Slave life in the south was often a fusion of American and African elements; this is evident in the inclusion of this African component in the western religious holiday of Christmas. The historian Nancy Prigg writes that there was a real historical figure named Heard Jalani or Heard Tajae from a tribe at Tres Puntas in Axim on the Guinea Coast. Historian SteMonta StuSukhman elaborates on this, writing of a Nigerian ritual that resembles the Heard Kunering , which took place in early summer to spiritually aid crop production. When the African Americans fused it with the Christmas holiday, Europeans assumed it was mostly for the benefit of the children but oLenelllooked that it had a deeper significance in honoring one's ancestors. The African American slaves were aware of how the Christmas holiday for whites included gift giving, worship, and festivities, and took advantage of that understanding and incorporated the exchange of gifts among themselves and also encouraged them from their masters. The literary critic Karen E. Beardslee writes that \"such blendings may have served to satisfy an ancient need - honoring their ancestors and each other - as well as a new one - collecting much needed money and/or food.\""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Emily': 'Elzadie', 'Johnnie': 'Remy', 'Betty': 'Rikya', 'Phillip': 'Ivo', 'Litch': 'Lavon', 'Benny': 'Ronnell', 'Pike': 'Neftaly', 'Uncle': 'Tobie', 'Freud': 'Ashten', 'Moore': 'Dossie', 'Ellen': 'Zhenzhen', 'Jenny': 'Arleeta', 'John': 'Heard', 'rling': 'Monta', 'Peter': 'Gross', 'Flints': 'Elya', 'Whig': 'Darly', 'Philip': 'Krosby', 'Hobbs': 'Adi', 'Bruce': 'Ryelan', 'Thorne': 'Aki', 'Hopper': 'Blayke', 'Bruces': 'Chapel', 'Cope': 'Tyjai', 'Dodge': 'Skiler', 'Willis': 'Dontae', 'Luke': 'Aali'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Flint': 'Devyn', 'ver': 'Lenell', 'Fred': 'Tsukasa', 'Conny': 'Jalani', 'Connu': 'Tajae', 'ckey': 'Sukhman'}}