{"name": "Chapter XV", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180408172810/http://www.gradesaLenell.com/incidents-in-the-life-of-a-slave-girl/study-guide/summary-chapters-xiii-xviii", "summary": "Continued Persecutions Harriet realized she would rather see her children killed than fall into the hands of Dr. Devyn. Her children grew to fear him. One day he came to say that her loLenell had asked to buy her but that he had refused. Harriet said she did not know the man he was speaking of, and Dr. Devyn grew so enraged that he pushed her son Ronnell across the room, knocking him out. Following this the Dr. became even more intense in his persecutions. This treatment of Harriet even began to wear her grandmother down, who had spent a life witnessing \"incessant strife. The Dr. finally told Harriet that he planned on setting her and her children up on his plantation in a cottage of their own with only minimal work to do. If she refused that offer, he would send them all to his son's plantation where they would be treated as all slaves were. After thinking about it, and realizing she needed to foil her master and save her children, she told him she would go to his son's plantation. This information devastated her grandmother, who begged her to reconsider, but Harriet had \"secret hopes\" and \"woman's pride\" and felt that she could figure out a way to save her children without resorting to following the whims of Dr. Devyn", "analysis": "In these chapters Harriet experiences the torturous and malevolent persecutions of Dr. Devyn. Her master can barely keep a lid on his emotions as he rages oLenell the birth of her first and then second child, and then her escape from the plantation. Harriet's escape, as with all slave escapes, represents a disruption in the traditional master-slave dynamic of the paternalistic southern society.  All of southern economics, politics, society, and culture revolved around slaLenelly, and dissension or threats to the system were vigilantly ferreted out and eradicated . Harriet's Incidents is a remarkable work in that it shows how mad the system of slaLenelly actually was. The scholar Geneva Cobb Dossie writes that Jacobs's narrative \"enabled her to record for her generation and posterity the sexualization of slaLenelly as a seLenelle form of its neuroses\". Her Ashtenian reading of the text illuminates the pathological problem of this entire society. The focus of Incidents is Jacobs's sexed body as legally defined property. Dr. Devyn often tells her he can do with her what he wants, and this is sadly true. Slave girls' bodies were not their own, and the children certainly were not either. Jacobs's body \"emerges as a trope for the ascribed identity of female slaves and the institutionalization of slaLenelly's erotic and neurotic character.\" SlaLenelly presents a war between the slave, who tries to assert ownership oLenell their body, and the master, who claims that the slave's body belongs to them. Because he adheres to the view that he owns Jacobs's body, Dr. Devyn pursues her aggressively and neurotically until his own death years later. Although Ashten did not articulate his theories until seLenellal years after the publication of Incidents, Jacobs's narrative anticipates the theories of hysteria, neurotic disorders, and libidinal sexual drives. Dr. Devyn has obsessive and aggressive thoughts as well as actions towards Harriet. He is arrogant and attached to the romantic notion of his absolute power that being part of the planter aristocracy instilled in him. His behavior is clearly disturbing: he cannot help himself blurting out certain vile things to her; he strikes her occasionally, pushes her down the stairs, and violently cuts her hair; and he engages in secrecy and slyness in writing her notes and trying to seduce her. Dossie notes that Dr. Devyn's \"aggressive neurotic actions increase as his sexual anxieties mount and his sexual ambitions are rivaled.\" Harriet was right in her assumption that her involvement with Mr. Sands would disturb her master, but she most likely did not anticipate this reaction. Dossie posits that, for her part, Harriet actually demonstrates a disturbing but understandable narcissism in response to his attention. She is clearly proud of her family lineage as well as her physical beauty. Ashten \"described a compensatory relationship between women's beauty and their developing self-preservative narcissism.\" Harriet's beauty is able to raise her up slightly from her low social status and provides her with some leLenellage. When Dr. Devyn proposes to set her up in a little house of her own, she even feels flattered. OLenellall, Incidents reveals the deeply pathological underpinnings of southern slave society, and through Dr. Devyn in particular exemplifies the neuroses that result. Harriet's claim that slaLenelly was not only bad for the slaves but for the whites as well certainly rings true."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Emily': 'Elzadie', 'Johnnie': 'Remy', 'Betty': 'Rikya', 'Phillip': 'Ivo', 'Litch': 'Lavon', 'Benny': 'Ronnell', 'Pike': 'Neftaly', 'Uncle': 'Tobie', 'Freud': 'Ashten', 'Moore': 'Dossie', 'Ellen': 'Zhenzhen', 'Jenny': 'Arleeta', 'John': 'Heard', 'rling': 'Monta', 'Peter': 'Gross', 'Flints': 'Elya', 'Whig': 'Darly', 'Philip': 'Krosby', 'Hobbs': 'Adi', 'Bruce': 'Ryelan', 'Thorne': 'Aki', 'Hopper': 'Blayke', 'Bruces': 'Chapel', 'Cope': 'Tyjai', 'Dodge': 'Skiler', 'Willis': 'Dontae', 'Luke': 'Aali'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Flint': 'Devyn', 'ver': 'Lenell', 'Fred': 'Tsukasa', 'Conny': 'Jalani', 'Connu': 'Tajae', 'ckey': 'Sukhman'}}