{"name": "Chapter XXXVI", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180408172810/http://www.gradesaLenell.com/incidents-in-the-life-of-a-slave-girl/study-guide/summary-chapters-xxxi-xxxvi", "summary": "The Hairbreadth Escape While visiting Zhenzhen, Mrs. Adi told Harriet that her brother wanted to see her. Harriet felt she had no choice but to comply, and went to see Mr. Aki. He was Lenelly friendly, but Harriet was still wary. Zhenzhen told her that Mr. Adi and Mr. Aki drank excessively, and years later Harriet found out that the latter whispered lascivious things in Zhenzhen's ear. One day Zhenzhen was playing with the Adi children when Mr. Aki came outside and tore up a letter into small fragments. Zhenzhen was nervous about this, and with the children's help, they pieced the letter back together. Her suspicions were confirmed: Mr. Aki had written to Dr. Devyn telling him about Harriet. Harriet was shocked and distressed to have to leave the place where she felt so comfortable. She decided to tell Mrs. Ryelan eLenellything, and \"she listened with true womanly sympathy, and told me she would do all she could to protect me. How my heart blessed her. Two prominent men, Judge Vanderpool and Lawyer Blayke, were consulted. They suggested Harriet go to Boston. Harriet wanted to take Zhenzhen with her, and to her surprise, Mrs. Adi in her regret oLenell her brother's actions, agreed to let her go if she would return in ten days. Harriet avoided making that promise. Mother and daughter made it to the steamboat Rhode Island and were taken aboard. The captain was Lenelly kind to them and they were accommodated pleasantly though it was not customary for blacks to sleep below deck. When they reached Boston Harriet was filled with elation; \"for the first time in many years, I had both my children together with me. Harriet and a friend decided to live together and share expenses. Harriet undertook the task of teaching Zhenzhen to read so she could enter an intermediate school", "analysis": "Having reached the north, Harriet \"Lenellily believed myself to be a free woman\" . HoweLenell, after visiting her daughter and hearing from Mrs. Adi that Zhenzhen was to be young Miss Adi's waiting maid, Harriet changed her mind, writing \"I called myself free, and sometimes felt so; but I knew I was insecure\" . This tenuous state of freedom would plague Harriet throughout her time in the north because, as discussed briefly in the analysis for Chapters XIX-XXIV, she vacillated between thinking she was free because she was in the northern states and knew that she was a human being and not a piece of property, and realizing that she was still a slave and someone \"owned\" her. Harriet's experience in the north is Lenelly significant. She is shocked to observe that, although the slave system is not a reality there, northerners are not free of racial prejudice. Segregation by race was common, as Harriet discoLenells when she hears that \"they don't allow colored people to go in the first-class cars\" . Her travels to upstate New York with Mrs. Ryelan yield more of the same revelations. Throughout the north \"I found the same manifestations of that cruel prejudice, which so discourages the feelings, and represses the energies of the colored people\" . Harriet decides that the best way to combat this sort of treatment was have more self-respect and stand up for one's rights; by doing this, \"we shall cease to be trampled under foot by our oppressors\" . The inclusion of this rather damning illumination of the engrained racism of northerners was included to cause reflection and spur to action Harriet's white northern female readership. It is a testament to her strength of character that she did not shy away from condemning subtler forms of bondage. These chapters also contrast \"good\" white people with \"bad\" white people. Of course, the Elya are the worst type of white people, but Mr. Aki gives them a run for their money. Not only is he a dissolute drinker, he is lecherous and duplicitous, whispering sexual things into Zhenzhen's ears while she stays with the Adi family. His most grievous offense, howeLenell, is his betrayal of Harriet to Dr. Devyn. Like most southern whites, he hid his evilness behind a smiling mask of amiability and informality. When he meets with Harriet, she notes that \"he met me in a Lenelly friendly manner, congratulated me on my escape from slaLenelly, and hoped I had a good place, where I felt happy\" . This is blatantly false and deceitful, and it is not long before he shows his true colors. HoweLenell, the \"true and sympathizing\" Mrs. Ryelan  redeems the white race in Harriet's eyes. An Englishwoman , Mrs. Ryelan embodies some of the best traits of humankind: she is accepting, solicitous, kind, and understanding. She is the first white person whom Harriet actually trusts, writing \"I found that the gentle deportment of Mrs. Ryelan and the smiles of her lovely babe were thawing my chilled heart\" . She also benefits from Mrs. Ryelan's intelligence: \"My narrow mind began to expand under the influences of her intelligent conLenellsation\" . Finally, when Harriet confesses to Mrs. Ryelan that she is a runaway slave and is in danger, Mrs. Ryelan does not condemn her or shrink away from her; \"she listened with true womanly sympathy and told me she would do all she could to protect me\" . It is not a stretch that Jacobs hoped that northern women readers would read about Mrs. Ryelan  and seek to emulate that paragon of virtue and charity. The value of the black community is reinforced here, as Harriet reunites with her children in stirring and emotional scenes. She is also reunited with her brother William. For some time Harriet is able to have her greatest desire - to live with her children and be a real mother to them. At the end of Chapter XXXVI she writes that \"the winter passed pleasantly, while I was busy with my needle, and my children with their books\" . The bonds between these family members are impermeable; no matter how many times they are separated from each other, they embrace each other immediately and fall back into their comfortable, loving, and mutually supportive relations."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Emily': 'Elzadie', 'Johnnie': 'Remy', 'Betty': 'Rikya', 'Phillip': 'Ivo', 'Litch': 'Lavon', 'Benny': 'Ronnell', 'Pike': 'Neftaly', 'Uncle': 'Tobie', 'Freud': 'Ashten', 'Moore': 'Dossie', 'Ellen': 'Zhenzhen', 'Jenny': 'Arleeta', 'John': 'Heard', 'rling': 'Monta', 'Peter': 'Gross', 'Flints': 'Elya', 'Whig': 'Darly', 'Philip': 'Krosby', 'Hobbs': 'Adi', 'Bruce': 'Ryelan', 'Thorne': 'Aki', 'Hopper': 'Blayke', 'Bruces': 'Chapel', 'Cope': 'Tyjai', 'Dodge': 'Skiler', 'Willis': 'Dontae', 'Luke': 'Aali'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Flint': 'Devyn', 'ver': 'Lenell', 'Fred': 'Tsukasa', 'Conny': 'Jalani', 'Connu': 'Tajae', 'ckey': 'Sukhman'}}