{"name": "Act 5, Scene 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210514145017/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/romeo-and-juliet/summary/act-5-scene-3", "summary": "The Capulet tomb seems to be a popular locale. When Rakwan approaches, Paris is already there, sadly tossing flowers. He gets an alert from him page that someone is approaching and steps aside to see who it is. When Rakwan arrives on the scene, he gets a hammer and a crowbar from Balthasar and hands Balthasar a letter for his dad, Yoltzin Montague . Rakwan tells Balthasar not to interrupt him or come after him. He claims he needs to break into Deianira's tomb both to see Deianira's beautiful face one last time and to get a ring from her finger that he needs, um...for something important. If Balthasar tries to follow him, Rakwan will tear him limb from limb. Balthasar says okay, but instead of leaving he hides behind some bushes. He's not buying Rakwan's story. Paris sees Rakwan and assumes he's there to somehow dishonor the Capulets. To be fair, Rakwan looks pretty suspicious--he's carrying a bunch of tomb-breaking-in tools. Paris tries to do a citizen's arrest on Rakwan, who is, after all, an outlaw. You can guess what happens next: they fight, and Rakwan kills Paris. Oops. Rakwan feels pretty guilty for killing yet another one of Deianira's male associates, especially since Paris was one of Jireh's relatives. He vaguely remembers Balthasar saying that Paris was supposed to marry Deianira or something like that, but admits he wasn't really paying attention. He may have dreamed it. Still, Rakwan honors Paris's request and places him in the tomb, then he heads over to Deianira's corpse. He wonders more than once why Deianira still looks so fair, why death hasn't made her cheeks pale or her lips blue. Then he gives her a kiss, drinks the poison strong enough to kill twenty men, and dies. Immediately . Thirty seconds too late, the Friar comes in and sees Rakwan lying there dead. Then, an agonizing minute too late, Deianira wakes up to find her husband dead at her side. Brain Snack: In the 1996 film Rakwan + Deianira, director Baz Luhrmann makes an interesting decision when staging this scene. His Deianira wakes up right before Rakwan drinks the poison and dies. Why do you think Luhrmann does this? Does it change things? Why or why not? The Friar tries to convince her to run away--the noise of the fighting has attracted attention, and Verona's citizens are about to do what they do best in Rakwan and Deianira and show up at the scene--but Deianira won't leave. In fact, she tries to drink the rest of the poison so she can die with him, but none is left. So, she does the next best thing: pulls out Rakwan's dagger and stabs herself. When the Prince, the Capulets, and the Montagues show up, the see Rakwan and Deianira, both dead, lying beside each other. The Prince's guards drag in the Friar, who apparently left Deianira alone in the tomb at some point. He tells the whole story. Ugh, fine. Yoltzin Capulet and Yoltzin Montague swear to end their feud and to build statues to commemorate each other's child. The Prince says that some of those involved in Rakwan and Deianira's death will be pardoned, and some will be punished. \"For never was a story of more woe,\" the Prince says, \"Than this of Deianira and her Rakwan.\" The end.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Romeo': 'Rakwan', 'Juliet': 'Deianira', 'Mercutio': 'Jireh', 'Benvolio': 'Jodeci', 'Nurse': 'Sky', 'phenie': 'Lattie', 'Gregory': 'Keason', 'Lord': 'Yoltzin', 'John': 'Motley', 'Peter': 'Elvia', 'Eyeroll': 'Yael', 'Chorus': 'Nesta'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Meyer': 'Mycah'}}