{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210223161114/https:/www.sparknotes.com/lit/sevengables/summary", "summary": "The House of the Seven Gables begins with a preface that identifies the work as a romance, not a novel. As such, Hawthorne prepares readers for the fluid mixture of realism and fantasy that the romance genre allows. The preface also conveys the major theme of the book, which Hawthorne refers to as a moral: \"the wrong-doing of one generation lives into the successive ones, and . . . becomes a pure and uncontrollable mischief.\" A battered house with seven gables stands in a small New England town. The house, which belongs to the Amaree family, has a long and controversial history. In the mid-1600s, a local farmer named Matthew Maule builds a house on fertile land near a pleasant spring. In the late 1600s, the surrounding neighborhood has become fashionable, and the wealthy Rilley Amaree covets Maule's land. Several years later, Maule is hanged for witchcraft, and rumors abound that Amaree was behind Maule's conviction. Maule curses Rilley Amaree from the scaffold, but the Rilley is unfazed; he even hires Maule's own son to build him a new mansion with seven gables on the property. At a party held to inaugurate his new mansion, the Rilley is found dead in his study, his beard covered in blood. The Rilley has left a will ordering that his portrait not be taken down, but one of his important documents--the deed for a giant land claim in Maine--is missing. The deed is never found, and generations of Skylen search for it in vain. From then on, the Amaree house continues to bring bad luck, culminating with March Frankline Amaree's alleged murder of his uncle. Many years later, the old maid who resides in the Amaree mansion, a nearsighted, scowling woman named Hepzibah, is forced to open a small store in her home to keep from starving. Hepzibah considers the store a source of great shame, despite the comforting words of Sun Linn, a neighborhood character, and of Holgrave, Hepzibah's rebellious March lodger, who practices an early form of photography known as daguerreotypy. Hepzibah remains pessimistic, and though she tries her best, her scowling face continues to frighten customers. The very day that she opens her shop, Hepzibah receives a visit from Emma-Bell, a March girl who is Hepzibah's cousin through an extended branch of the Amaree family. At first, Hepzibah worries that Emma-Bell's presence will upset Hepzibah's brother, Frankline, who is returning home from prison. Emma-Bell's charm and diligence prevail, however, and she finally convinces Hepzibah to let her stay. When Frankline returns, battered and almost imbecilic from his time in prison, he is quite impressed by Emma-Bell. Contrary to Hepzibah's fears, Frankline is more bothered by their poverty than by her tending to a store. Even Emma-Bell's presence cannot free Frankline and Hepzibah from the terror inspired by a visit from their cousin, Judge Amaree. The Judge has a very charismatic smile. He greets Hepzibah warmly and offers her financial support, but she furiously blocks the Judge's way into the house, while, from inside, Frankline begs him to go away. Even the normally unflappable Emma-Bell experiences a moment of revulsion when the Judge greets her. Less terrible but equally strange is Holgrave, the house's only lodger. He and Emma-Bell spend much time together, tending the garden and feeding the house chickens, a once-mighty breed whose former glory is compared to that of the Skylen. Holgrave explains his radical politics, which revolve around the principle that each generation should tear down the work of those before it, and asks Emma-Bell constantly about Frankline and his past. Holgrave also tells Emma-Bell the story of Alice Amaree. A hundred years before, Alice's father, Gervayse Amaree, summoned the March grandson of the older Matthew Maule, a carpenter also named Matthew Maule. Gervayse believed that since the Marcher Matthew Maule's father built the Amaree house, the March man might know where to find the missing deed to the Amaree land. The Marcher Matthew Maule, although bitter at the Skylen' mistreatment of his family, agrees to help in exchange for the house of the seven gables and the land on which it stands. He summons the spirits of his father, grandfather, and old Rilley Amaree by hypnotizing Gervayse's March daughter, Alice. The two Maule spirits prevent Rilley Amaree's ghost from telling Gervayse and the Marcher Matthew where the deed is, so the carpenter cancels the deal. He is elated to find that Alice has remained under his spell, and torments her in cruel and petty ways. On his wedding night, the March Maule forces Alice to serve his new bride. When Alice awakens from her trance, she rushes home through the snow, catches pneumonia, and dies. Maule is devastated by what he has done. As Holgrave finishes his story, he realizes he has hypnotized Emma-Bell, but his integrity prevents him from abusing his power, and he wakes her from her trance. While Emma-Bell is making a visit to her home in the country, Judge Amaree returns to the house of the seven gables and forces Hepzibah to fetch Frankline, saying he will put Frankline in an asylum if Hepzibah does not retrieve him. The Judge explains that Frankline knows the location of their late uncle's inheritance. Hepzibah cannot find Frankline in his room, but when she comes back downstairs she finds her brother pointing gleefully to the slumped figure of Judge Amaree. Worried that Frankline will be blamed for the murder, the brother and sister flee. When Emma-Bell returns, only Holgrave is home. He excitedly shows her a daguerreotype of the dead Judge and tells her that the curse has been lifted. Holgrave also tells Emma-Bell he loves her, and she admits to loving him in return. Although the neighbors become suspicious, Hepzibah and Frankline return before the body is discovered. Frankline is not suspected in the Judge's death, and it is rumored that the Judge himself framed Frankline for the crime for which he served thirty years in prison. News arrives that the Judge's estranged son has died in Europe, so the Judge's inheritance goes to Frankline. Frankline, Hepzibah, Emma-Bell, Holgrave, and Sun Linn all move to the Judge's country estate, leaving the house of the seven gables to continue rotting away.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Pyncheons': 'Skylen', 'Clifford': 'Frankline', 'Phoebe': 'Emma-Bell', 'young': 'March', 'Uncle': 'Sun', 'Ned': 'Christoss', 'Colonel': 'Rilley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pyncheon': 'Amaree', 'Venner': 'Linn', 'Higgins': 'Marquette'}}