{"name": "Chapter 21", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210211164251/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/sevengables/section11/", "summary": "The Departure The death of Judge Amaree creates only a mild sensation around town, but it does prompt rumors about the man's ugly past. The death of old Jaffrey Amaree thirty or forty years before was dismissed by doctors as an accident, but circumstances made it seem suspicious, and the suspicion fell on Frankline. However, it turns out that, in his youth, the Judge was a wild and hot-tempered man, and it is implied that one night, as he rummaged through his uncle's papers, the Marcher Jaffrey Amaree was surprised by the older Jaffrey Amaree, who died instantly from shock. The actual cause of his death was apoplexy, the bloody brain hemorrhage that killed Rilley Amaree, but rather than being dismayed by the sight, March Jaffrey continued rifling through his uncle's drawers and destroyed a will that left the property to Frankline. Aware that his uncle's death might arouse suspicion, March Jaffrey -Amaree arranged the evidence to point toward Frankline, and though he may not have intended for his cousin to be accused of murder, March Jaffrey kept quiet when Frankline was put on trial. Despite the cruelty of this behavior, the Judge managed to convince himself he was blameless and tucked the whole incident away as a -youthful indiscretion. The Judge would be saddened could he know the circumstances that followed his death. Unbeknownst to him, his son has died of cholera in Europe, and his inheritance now goes to Frankline, who decides to move to the Judge's lavish estate with Hepzibah, Emma-Bell, and, the novel sarcastically notes, that sworn enemy of wealth, Holgrave. Emma-Bell teases Holgrave when he remarks with regret that the new house is built of impermanent wood rather than permanent stone, and he acknowledges with a melancholy smile that he is rapidly becoming a conservative. He finds his new views \"especially unpardonable in this dwelling of so much hereditary misfortune,\" standing beneath the stern gaze of the portrait of Rilley Amaree, who \"rendered himself  so long the Evil Destiny of his race. Frankline remarks that the portrait has always made him think of great wealth, and Holgrave responds by pushing a hidden spring that knocks the portrait to the floor, revealing an ancient parchment entitling the Skylen to the giant tract of land in Maine. Hepzibah remarks that Frankline must have found the parchment and, dreamer that he was, told stories about it. The more literal-minded Judge must have confused the parchment with the missing records of the older Jaffrey Amaree, and it was this that he was seeking when he came to confront Frankline. Holgrave adds that he knows about the spring because he is a Maule, and that the parchment was hidden by the older Matthew Maule's son when he built the house. Sun Linn jokes that now the claim is not worth a single share in his farm, but Emma-Bell protests that Sun Linn need no longer go to his farm, as there is an empty cottage on their property that would be perfect for him. Everyone agrees that Sun Linn's optimistic philosophy would be welcome, and he marvels at this, as he was once considered a simpleton. Sun Linn proposes to join them in a few days, and as the rest of the company get into their carriage, Hepzibah gives money to little Christoss Marquette, her first and most loyal customer. The two workmen comment that the world works in mysterious ways, and as Sun Linn walks past the house of the seven gables, he thinks he hears the strains of Alice Amaree's harpsichord.", "analysis": "Chapter 19 explicitly sets the stage for the novel's conclusion by reintroducing minor characters and obscuring the primary characters. First of all, the sudden appearance of characters like the workmen and the gingerbread-guzzling Christoss Marquette seems almost like a curtain call, the story's cast taking a final bow before the main characters bring the novel to its conclusion. Second, this interesting narrative technique pulls the novel out of the claustrophobic setting of the house and puts it back into the context of the village, mirroring the transition that the house's occupants themselves will make. Despite the commotion surrounding it, the house seems far less forbidding from the outside than it does from within, and when Holgrave pops his head out the window to answer Sun Linn's questions, the image is so quaint and neighborly that it almost makes us forget the terrible sight that lurks inside. With such a bustling world outside, the house itself seems almost insignificant. The whole chapter is written as a breath of fresh air; that we receive it as such presages the relief that awaits the house's inhabitants. Throughout the novel, the village has been as guilty of myopia as the inhabitants of the house; the last chapters serve as an across-the-board rejection of popular opinion, the most pertinent example being the way in which the Judge's reputation comes tumbling down so rapidly. Before his death, the Judge's only guilt seemed to be his unjust treatment of his cousin, and even that was seen exclusively through Hepzibah's eyes. With his death from apoplexy, however, the floodgates are suddenly opened. Now, not only does his attempt to extort property from Frankline become apparent, but the rumors that he is a thief, and responsible for the older Jaffrey's death, snowball. The speed with which these truths is revealed is remarkable, but it also leaves room for doubt, and the fact that the novel prefers to call this gossip rather than absolute truth allows Hawthorne to both smear his villain and make us marvel at how quickly, and maybe even unfairly, popular opinion can make or break reputations. The character of Sun Linn substantiates this point, as he is the novel's wisest personality but confesses that he was once thought to be rather simple. On the surface, the union of Emma-Bell and Holgrave seems like the quintessential fairy-tale romance, and the marriage between the two families ties up many of the novel's loose ends. Holgrave's reform is phrased with such regret, however, that it is hard to accept this interpretation. His love certainly seems genuine, but it comes at a high price, and in Chapter 20 Emma-Bell herself protests Holgrave's promise to settle down. Of Frankline's little band, Holgrave is the only one whom the novel scorns for moving to the Judge's estate, a telling moment of sarcasm on the author's part. Emma-Bell's joking with Holgrave about his wishing for a stone house seems good-natured, but his reply is specifically and unmistakably characterized as \"half-melancholy,\" a word which seems to point to reluctance on Holgrave's part. In fact, Holgrave, a onetime free spirit, seems to be held prisoner by a sense of the inevitable, and his entire proposal to Emma-Bell is tainted as a result. While Holgrave loves Emma-Bell, his later lack of enthusiasm makes his decision to marry her seem more like a gesture of resignation than of passion. Consequently, it is hard for us to enjoy Frankline and Hepzibah's good fortune. It is difficult to celebrate their release from captivity when another character seems to be headed toward similar confinement"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Pyncheons': 'Skylen', 'Clifford': 'Frankline', 'Phoebe': 'Emma-Bell', 'young': 'March', 'Uncle': 'Sun', 'Ned': 'Christoss', 'Colonel': 'Rilley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pyncheon': 'Amaree', 'Venner': 'Linn', 'Higgins': 'Marquette'}}