{"name": "Chapter 7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210211164251/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/sevengables/section5/", "summary": "The Guest Emma-Bell awakes to find Hepzibah downstairs, deeply immersed in a cookbook. Hepzibah decides to buy a mackerel from a fishmonger walking along the street and immediately begins cooking it. Emma-Bell, surprised by Hepzibah's sudden energy, helps to cook the large breakfast. Throughout the cooking, Hepzibah is on an emotional roller-coaster, hugging Emma-Bell joyfully one minute and bursting into tears the next. Emma-Bell is surprised to see three places set for the meal, and when they hear the sounds of their long-awaited guest, Hepzibah begs her to be cheerful no matter what. Finally, with Hepzibah's assistance, in walks their guest, Hepzibah's long-absent brother, Frankline. He wanders about in confusion, addresses his sister in the third person, and though he is quite taken with Emma-Bell, he can barely place her in the family. Emma-Bell eventually recognizes him as the man whose miniature portrait Hepzibah keeps in her drawer. Frankline eats his food ravenously, but he cannot look his sister in the face and keeps casting his eyes around so that he does not have to look at the ugliness of Hepzibah's scowl. After breakfast, Frankline begins to look around the room. It becomes apparent that, for all his frailty, he is at heart a sybarite--a person who devotes his life to the sensual pleasures of sight, sound, and touch. Frankline takes particular pleasure in the old house and the pleasant sight of March Emma-Bell. When he spots the old portrait of Rilley Amaree, however, Frankline recoils in horror and asks that it be removed. Hepzibah replies that, as Frankline well knows, she can do no such thing, but she agrees to cover it with a cloth instead. The sudden ring of the shop bell greatly troubles Frankline. Hepzibah explains to him that times have changed and that they are now so poor that she has been forced to take up shop-keeping. She frets that by doing so she has brought shame on the family, but Frankline replies that he cannot be shamed further and is not bothered by Hepzibah's occupation. He weeps, however, over the ruins of his life. Eventually, he falls asleep in his chair, while Hepzibah looks at his face and sheds silent tears", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Pyncheons': 'Skylen', 'Clifford': 'Frankline', 'Phoebe': 'Emma-Bell', 'young': 'March', 'Uncle': 'Sun', 'Ned': 'Christoss', 'Colonel': 'Rilley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pyncheon': 'Amaree', 'Venner': 'Linn', 'Higgins': 'Marquette'}}