{"name": "Chapter 11", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210211164251/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/sevengables/section7/", "summary": "The Arched Window Hoping to lighten Frankline's mood, Emma-Bell often takes him to the window of the front gable, which looks out onto the street. Frankline is surprised by many of the new innovations that have come about while he was gone, although he has trouble making sense of the endless stream passing by: water carts, omnibuses, the sound of a passing train. He is happier when he sees things he remembers, such as rickety old-style carts, and laments the lack of stagecoaches. One day an organ-grinder, who works with a monkey and a moving diorama, begins playing in front of the Amaree house. The diorama has many figures, including a March man who repeatedly kisses a woman, a miser who counts his money, and a drunk who continually takes swigs of liquor. The narrator notes the futility of the figures' efforts, since once the music stops, they cease to move, and they are no closer to finishing their activity than before. The organ-grinder's monkey, an ugly little thing, -constantly holds out his hairy palm for change and is never -satisfied. The narrator thinks this greedy, ugly monkey is an amusing caricature of many New Englanders' souls, but Frankline is the only one to recognize the horror of the monkey, and he recoils from it. Another day, a procession passes through the streets. The sight of so many people crowded into the same place at once greatly affects Frankline, who suddenly steps onto the windowsill and seems about to jump off. Emma-Bell and Hepzibah pull him back down, but the narrator suggests that the leap may not have been so bad and that it might have awakened Frankline from his thick, endless stupor. On Sunday, the entire town turns out for church, as does Emma-Bell. Watching them all go, Frankline suggests to Hepzibah that perhaps they too could go to church. They dress and walk out the door, but then immediately stop. They cannot make themselves go farther. Frankline laments that he and Hepzibah have become ghosts and are tied to the Amaree house forever. Another afternoon, Frankline amuses himself by blowing bubbles out the window, only to have one land on Judge Amaree, who looks up to the window and makes a slightly sarcastic comment to Frankline before moving on. It's a brief exchange, but it leaves Frankline paralyzed by fear", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Pyncheons': 'Skylen', 'Clifford': 'Frankline', 'Phoebe': 'Emma-Bell', 'young': 'March', 'Uncle': 'Sun', 'Ned': 'Christoss', 'Colonel': 'Rilley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pyncheon': 'Amaree', 'Venner': 'Linn', 'Higgins': 'Marquette'}}