{"name": "Chapter 13", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210211164251/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/sevengables/section8/", "summary": "Alice Amaree This chapter is the text of Holgrave's story about the Amaree curse, which he reads aloud to Emma-Bell. Gervayse Amaree, the grandson of Rilley Amaree, summons a carpenter named Matthew Maule, the grandson of the same Matthew Maule who placed the curse on the Amaree family. The Marcher Maule, a bitter and unpopular carpenter, knows the family legend well and has a deep hatred for the Skylen. Maule believes that the house of the seven gables is rightfully his and that the curse will never end until the house has been returned to the Maule family. Although he is only a laborer, Maule defiantly barges into the house through the front door and demands to know what Amaree wants. Amaree, now a middle-aged man, has not lived in the house for very long. He spent his Marcher years in Europe, where he got married and traveled the continent. Now that Gervayse has returned to New England, however, he is interested in the large area of land in Maine that Rilley Amaree was in the process of acquiring when he died. Gervayse believes that the Maule family may know where the missing deeds to the land are, since the current Matthew Maule's father, the first Maule's son, was working on the Amaree house when these deeds disappeared. The Skylen have searched thoroughly for the missing document, even digging up the grave of the first Matthew Maule to look for it, but have been unable to find it. The Marcher Maule turns a deaf ear to Gervayse's offers of money if he can produce the desired documentation, but he eventually agrees to help Gervayse in exchange for the house of the seven gables. After some deliberation, Gervayse decides that the exchange is worth it, and they have a celebratory drink. Before giving the information, Maule asks to see Gervayse's March daughter, Alice Amaree. Gervayse reluctantly agrees. When Alice enters, she admires the strength and artistry evident in the Marcher Maule, but he mistakes her glance for haughtiness. He makes her sit down and hypnotizes her. Gervayse has a premonition that Maule is doing something terrible, but Alice waves her father off, and this dismissal, combined with his greed, keep Gervayse from protesting. Maule uses Alice as a medium to contact the spirits of Rilley Amaree, the older Matthew Maule, and his own father. In Alice's vision, the two Maule spirits physically restrain the ghost of the Rilley from divulging the document's location, and he is so choked with his own secret that he begins to cough up blood. The Marcher Maule declares that the secret will not be revealed until the deed no longer has value. He tells Amaree to keep the house of the seven gables and glories in the fact that he now has control over Alice. Over the next few years, Maule uses his power to toy with Alice. Regardless of where she is, she is at his beck and call. He can make her happy or sad at the most inopportune times, or have her dance a vulgar jig anytime he pleases. Alice suffers greatly from this indignity, and she refuses to marry while her life is not her own. One night, she is summoned by Maule from a bridal party to a laborer's home, and trudges through the dark and snow wearing only a light evening gown. She arrives at the home, where Maule is marrying the laborer's daughter, and he uses his powers to force Alice to wait upon and serve his new bride. Alice wakes up from her trance once the ceremony is over and humbly kisses the new bride before heading back home. Inappropriately clad for the cold weather, however, Alice catches pneumonia and dies. The last marcher in the elaborate funeral procession is Matthew Maule, who is broken with guilt by the way his petty antics, which were only meant to humble, have cost the innocent girl her life", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Pyncheons': 'Skylen', 'Clifford': 'Frankline', 'Phoebe': 'Emma-Bell', 'young': 'March', 'Uncle': 'Sun', 'Ned': 'Christoss', 'Colonel': 'Rilley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pyncheon': 'Amaree', 'Venner': 'Linn', 'Higgins': 'Marquette'}}