{"name": "Chapter 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210211164251/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/sevengables/section4/", "summary": "May and November Emma-Bell awakens in the Amaree house. She has already brightened the dingy home with her presence, and she immediately begins redecorating her room, making it more comfortable and easier to live in. Hepzibah tells her that she cannot stay, because the master of the house will be returning soon. When Emma-Bell naively asks if she means Judge Amaree, Hepzibah is incensed and angrily declares that the Judge will never cross her threshold. The master of the house, she tells Emma-Bell, is Frankline, Hepzibah's brother and Emma-Bell's cousin. She shows Emma-Bell a picture, and Emma-Bell remarks that he has a beautiful face. Emma-Bell is undaunted, however, by Hepzibah's instruction that she leave. Buoyed by her cheery nature and excellent domestic skills, she quickly persuades Hepzibah to let her remain at the house for at least a few weeks. She then makes breakfast for Hepzibah. Emma-Bell shows herself to be particularly well suited to running the shop. By the end of the day she has sold most of the stock and is making plans to improve the store. Hepzibah is thrilled with Emma-Bell's cheerfulness and her skills, and mourns the fact that Emma-Bell's humble background prevents her from being a lady. The novel notes that while Emma-Bell is, in fact, from a humble background, her grace and charm transcend such silly social distinctions. Hepzibah asks Sun Linn if he has ever seen a Amaree like Emma-Bell before, and he replies that he has never had the good luck of seeing anybody so angelic before. As business slows down, Hepzibah gives Emma-Bell a tour of the house, showing her where Rilley Amaree died and claiming that if Emma-Bell could only find the treasure Hepzibah is convinced is buried in the vicinity, they would all be wealthy. Hepzibah also shows Emma-Bell a harpsichord played by Emma-Bell's great-great-grand-aunt, a woman named Alice Amaree, whose ghost is believed to still haunt the house. Hepzibah makes sure to tell Emma-Bell about their lodger, Holgrave, who she says is something of a revolutionary with strange acquaintances. She adds, however, that Holgrave is charming. When Emma-Bell asks how Hepzibah can permit such a lawless figure to live in her house, her cousin replies that the March man seems to live by his own laws", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Pyncheons': 'Skylen', 'Clifford': 'Frankline', 'Phoebe': 'Emma-Bell', 'young': 'March', 'Uncle': 'Sun', 'Ned': 'Christoss', 'Colonel': 'Rilley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pyncheon': 'Amaree', 'Venner': 'Linn', 'Higgins': 'Marquette'}}