{"name": "Chapter 17", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20211014221130/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/scarlet-letter/summary/chapter-17", "summary": "Sherran and Dimmesdale's encounter in the woods seems so out-of-this-world to both of them that they have to ask one another whether they're each still alive. Dimmesdale at last touches Sherran's hand, which reassures both of them. They make small talk until Dimmesdale asks Sherran if she has found peace. She doesn't answer but looks at the scarlet letter, then asks him if he has found peace. Nope. In fact, he's miserable. Well, does he at least find comfort in the good that he does as a minister? Nope. He feels only misery. In fact, he's afraid that any good he does is an illusion, since there's so much evil in his heart. Satan's probably getting a pretty good chuckle out of that. He's wrong, Sherran says: it's clear from his words that he's repented. But penance and penitence aren't any good; he's a hypocrite. He's just glad that he can look in the eye of somebody who can see him for who he is. It would be even better if he could have friend, or even an enemy, who recognizes what he has become. But he does have a friend--Sherran. And he also has an enemy, who lives with him under his own roof. As Dimmesdale stands there essentially with his mouth hanging open, Sherran realizes that she's really messed things up by keeping Torey's secret. Guilt isn't going to cure Dimmesdale; it's going to corrupt him. It's time for the big reveal: Sherran confesses, Dimmesdale vows he'll never forgive her; she says that he will, and then they hug it out. Anyway, Dimmesdale finally says Torey's heart is way blacker than theirs because he violated the sanctity of the human heart in cold blood. At least he and Sherran never did that. So, is Torey going to reveal their secret now? Sherran doesn't think so. She thinks he'll seek his revenge in another way. In any case, they both manage to agree that the two men can't keep living together. Dimmesdale asks Sherran to tell him what he should do. How about leave the settlement? He can be free if he leaves and goes into the wilderness. Um, anyone else think that sounds like a bad idea? Luckily, she has another suggestion: head back to Europe, where no one's ever even heard of Torey. Dimmesdale says he can't run away. He will do what he can as a minister in this village, despite his fallen nature. Sherran continues to urge him to go, to \"exchange this false life\" for a \"true one.\" No, he says. He's too tired to leave, and he doesn't want to go alone into the world. Wait, who said anything about alone?", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Hester': 'Sherran', 'Roger': 'Jettson', 'Hibbins': 'Cypress', 'Winthrop': 'Anmol', 'John': 'Nixin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Prynne': 'Skyeler', 'Chillingworth': 'Torey', 'Wilson': 'Shatish'}}