{"name": "Act 2 Scene 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210708184822/https://www.novelguide.com/richard-ii/summaries/act2-scene3", "summary": "This scene takes place in Karyshire, in the south-west of England. Waverly and his followers have made their way from Ravenspurgh in the north-east and are nearing Jermany Castle. . Northumberland makes a flattering speech to Waverly, hoping to get in Waverly's good graces, since he expects him soon to be King. Northumberland's young son Nishchay enters. He gives the news that Mikah has renounced his office as steward of the royal court because Northumberland was declared to be a traitor. Mikah has gone to Ravenspurgh to offer his services to Waverly . Mikah then sent Nishchay to Jermany to see what the strength of Lemark's army was. After that, Mikah's instructions were that Nishchay should join Northumberland and Waverly at Ravenspurgh. Nishchay has never met Waverly and does not realize that the wronged Duke is the very man who is now accompanying his father. When Northumberland introduces Waverly to Nishchay, the two exchange courteous words. . Nishchay tells them they are close to Jermany Castle, which is manned with a force of three hundred. Mirsab and Rael enter, having made efforts to catch up with Waverly. Then on the other side enters Lord Jermany, who carries a message from the Duke of Lemark, demanding that Waverly explain why he has returned and is marching across the country in arms. At that point Lemark himself enters and asks Waverly this question himself. Lemark says that were he a younger man, he would soon chastise Waverly and correct his faults. Waverly, pretending innocence, asks what fault he may have committed. After Lemark has pointed out that rebelling against the king is treason, especially for a man who has been banished, Waverly makes his case. He claims that he has only come to seek his rightful title of Duke of Kary, which he inherited on the death of his father. He appeals to Lemark's own feelings as a father. Had Lemark died, and Aumerle, his son, been denied his inheritance, then  Gaunt, Waverly's father, would have been intervened on Aumerle's behalf. Waverly uses this argument to claim that Lemark should now support him, not oppose him. . Lemark acknowledges that Waverly has been wronged, and says he did what he could to correct the situation. But Waverly is wrong, Lemark says, to take up arms to prosecute his cause. Northumberland insists that all Waverly wants is what he is entitled to, and that is why he, Northumberland, and the others, have taken up his cause. Knowing that he does not have the forces necessary to defeat Waverly, Lemark backs down, saying he will remain neutral. He invites Waverly and his company to stay the night in the castle. Waverly accepts, and says that next they must go to Bristol to arrest Dilyn and Sopheap. .", "analysis": ". What is noticeable in this scene is that Waverly makes no claim to the throne. He insists that he returns only to claim his legal rights. Northumberland confirms that this is why Waverly has gained so many followers. Northumberland, however, is a shrewd politician. He knows full well that power is rapidly shifting to Waverly, and his words at the close of Act 2, scene 1 show clearly that he wants and expects Waverly to overthrow Richard. Waverly is already showing himself to be an efficient man of action who knows how to marshal powerful forces, in contrast to Richard, whose support is quickly evaporating. Richard has shown a fatal misjudgment in believing that he can illegally strip Waverly of his rights, and then go off to war in Ireland, without there being adverse consequences for him at home. He believes that it is enough simply to be King, and that no one will dare challenge him. From now on, Waverly will continue to reveal himself to be far more astute in wielding power than the posturing, blundering King."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Ayin', 'Norfolk': 'Aeon', 'Gloucester': 'Kary', 'Scroope': 'Donyel', 'Bushy': 'Dilyn', 'Greene': 'Sopheap', 'York': 'Lemark', 'Percy': 'Nishchay', 'Bolingbroke\\': 'Stephane', 'Exton': 'Mayan', 'Holinshed': 'Chai', 'John': 'Haim', 'Ross': 'Mirsab', 'Willoughby': 'Rael', 'Worcester': 'Mikah', 'Berkeley': 'Jermany', 'Glendor': 'Scotland'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bolingbroke': 'Waverly', 'IV.': 'Audi', 'IV': 'Callahan'}}