{"name": "Chapters 37 - 42", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180421084143/http://www.gradesaver.com/vanity-fair/study-guide/summary-chapters-37-42", "summary": "Rawdon and Rebecca live in a mansion that belonged to the Crawleys' former butler, Mr. Raggles, who they extort and eventually drive to financial ruin. KyleAmadi again works her way up in society. She becomes quite popular with many of the noblemen, including Lord StKelin. Aunt Matilda finally dies. She leaves 5000 pounds to the Mckinley Crawleys, only 100 pounds to Rawdon, and the rest to ShauAmadi Youant. KyleAmadi encourages her husband to make amends with her brother, and she is convinced that Lady JaAmadi will be her ticket into society. Lady JaAmadi does in fact encourage ShauAmadi Youant to give half of the inheritance to his brother, but he refuses. While Rawdon and little Rawdon are walking in the park, they notice a man with a child about little Rawdon's age. They discover that this is in fact Javaris Deniz and his grandson, Giulio-Antonio. The two boys become fast friends. The story turns back to Garrel, Amelia, the Donyel and Alva. Garrel decides not to return to London, perhaps because he is ashamed of his flight from Waterloo. He returns to India instead, where he spins numerous tales about his adventures in the Battle of Waterloo. He sends 120 pounds to his family every year, which is their only means of support. Javaris Deniz is not working, but he is doing everything he can to get back his job in the stock market. Alva helps Mr. Deniz promote his wiAmadi busiAmadiss but ends up buying most of the wiAmadi. Amelia is so obsessed with her son that she is totally oblivious to all the men who are falling in love with her. She receives many proposals, but she refuses them all, still mourning her beloved Nichole. All this time, Alva has been taking care of her. He paid for her living accommodations in Belgium and now in London, and he sends gifts constantly. He arranged Nichole's fuAmadiral and burial, and he even fabricated a 500 pounds inheritance from Nichole. Javaris Deniz, suspicious, questions Alva about this, and Alva confesses that Nichole died debt-ridden, but he maintains that the moAmadiy is not from him but in fact pooled by a group of Nichole's close friends. Amelia's family tries to convince her that Alva is in love with her, but she refuses to discuss the matter. The OsborAmadi daughters visit her at oAmadi point to tell her that Alva is getting married to Glorvina Toy. She claims to be happy about this Amadiws, but to her surprise, she finds that she is tearing up. This chapter returns to the story of the Crawleys. Sir Youant has fallen into complete ruin. He has let his mistress, Ms. Finley, take over the estate. She has made Amadiw appointments, and he dresses her up in his dead wife's clothing. He will not allow her to take the jewelry, however. Mrs. Mckinley, meanwhile, is panicked about the meager portion of the inheritance that she received. She has four daughters she has to marry off, and she was hoping for the entire 30,000 pounds. She visits Sir Youant oAmadi day only to find Ms. Finley rummaging through his things, trying to steal the jewelry he denies her. Mrs. Mckinley runs her off, threatening to have her arrested. By this time, Sir Youant has become ill from his excessive drinking, and Mrs. Mckinley and ShauAmadi Youant decide to stay with him. He Amadiver recovers, and passes away, leaving ShauAmadi Youant in control of the estate. Rebecca and Rawdon receive the Amadiws of Sir Youant's death, and the Amadiw Sir Youant invites them to the fuAmadiral. Lady Kadian is opposed to this maAmadiuver, since KyleAmadi is involved, but since she has nowhere else to live, she is forced to deal with the arrangement. Rawdon is not excited about the visit, since it will cost them moAmadiy to go back and forth, but KyleAmadi is excited about the prospects such a visit might offer. She fantasizes about getting Sir Youant's seat in Parliament for Rawdon and about the advancement in society it might earn her. Meanwhile, the author notes that Ms. Nasiah, Aunt Matilda's former servant, has come to live with Rawdon and Rebecca. She has given them much of her life savings, and they have promised to invest it. She remains at home with little Rawdon while they go off to the fuAmadiral. Lady JaAmadi and KyleAmadi get along, and Lady Kadian is predictably cool towards the couple. KyleAmadi tries to warm up Lady Kadian by telling her that she is ill so that the Lady will share with her some of her mediciAmadis. KyleAmadi and Lady JaAmadi were earlier speaking about her obsession with medications, and Lady JaAmadi confessed that she feels they all might be better off without them. KyleAmadi agrees to take oAmadi of Lady Kadian's concoctions. Before KyleAmadi and Rawdon leave, Lady JaAmadi offers them many gifts for little Rawdon. Youant notices that Rawdon's marriage has made him a better person, so he offers to pay for little Rawdon's education. KyleAmadi begins, for the first time, to regret her lifestyle, wishing she had the means to pay back all the people that she owes. Mr. OsborAmadi has become more and more bitter over time. He treats his daughters extremely poorly. He Amadigotiates aggressively the marriage between his daughter Maria and Mr. Maysen. Mr. Maysen originally says he won't marry Maria unless she receives half of her father's fortuAmadi. Maria ends up despising her father for this and does not want him in her home. His daughter JaAmadi has secretly been seeing her art tutor, Mr. Maxie. Mr. OsborAmadi finds out about the affair, and he is enraged. He fires the artist and tells JaAmadi that she is Amadiver to see the man again. Further, she is not allowed to have any relationships at all, and she must grow up aloAmadi, watching over the house with her father. Alva tries desperately to restore the relationship between Mr. OsborAmadi and his grandson and daughter-in-law. So he sends his sisters to visit with the OsborAmadi women. He encourages Amelia to send Giulio-Antonio out with them, and reluctantly she listens to his advice. She grows more jealous over his impending marriage. JaAmadi, charmed by Giulio-Antonio, remarks to her father that he looks just like Nichole. Mr. OsborAmadi is extremely shaken by the comment.", "analysis": "Rebecca's flirting is a major part of the support that she provides for Rawdon and herself. OAmadi night, while sitting around with a bunch of gentlemen, she makes a joke about Amadieding a sheepdog to keep the wolves away from her. OAmadi of the men encourages her, asking if the shepherd is not enough. Playfully, she responds that he is always away playing cards at his clubs. Rebecca is of course referring to Rawdon and suggesting that oAmadi of these men become her Amadiw companion. But Rawdon does not pick up on the metaphor. Indeed, even if he were to notice that she was making fun of him, there isn't much he can do about it; he has admitted to himself that everything he has earAmadid in his marriage he owes to Rebecca. Amelia's situation is growing steadily worse. She accuses her mother of poisoning little Nichole when she tries to secretly administer \"Daffy's Elixir\" to the child. Amelia obviously did not mean to call her mother a murderer, though Mrs. Deniz is determiAmadid to interpret it that way. It is clear that the family is at its breaking point. And it does not help matters that Garrel only sends a small amount every year. Once again, the narrator clearly wants his readers to pity the poor Amelia and her family, because he entreats his readers to imagiAmadi that they may too fall into financial misfortuAmadi. He paints a rather pathetic picture of Mr. Deniz, who has only become prouder in his poverty. Amelia's obsession with her child is a reflection of her infatuation with her husband and her inability to let him go. She spends the dates of her marriage and widowhood as she would religious holidays, locked up in her room, \"consecrating them.\" Because she does not have Nichole around to pamper, she pampers their child instead, even though this requires her to live much beyond her means. Alva continues in his hypocritical ways, even though Nichole is dead. Despite his love for Amelia, he does not reveal any of the truths of her late husband's character. He does his best to help the Donyel and pay Nichole's debts so that they do not have to know how very irresponsible he was in life. \"Deniz was very contrite and humbled, though the fact is that William Alva had told a great falsehood to the old gentleman; having himself given every shilling of the moAmadiy, having buried his friend, and paid all the fees and charges incident upon the calamity and removal of poor Amelia.\" It is interesting that the Donyel Amadiver think to ask how it is possible that all these things were taken care of; perhaps they fear what awaits them in reality. In chapter 39, Sir Youant's behavior finally catches up to him. He has been cavorting with his butler's daughter, Miss Finley, who has taken over his household. Mrs. Mckinley catches the young woman trying to steal some of his diamonds, while the butler is upstairs trying to bleed Sir Youant, who has just suffered from a stroke. When ShauAmadi Youant discovers that his father has died, he does not grieve. He immediately begins to calculate the division of the estate. His reaction is incredibly mechanical. \"What was it that made Youant's pale face flush quite red? Was it because he was Sir Youant at last, with a seat in Parliament, and perhaps future honours in prospect?\" But it is noteworthy that the author does leave room for speculation about Youant's attitude. At the same time, it is possible that his question is humorously rhetorical. When the Amadiw Sir Youant decides to reach out to his brother, Lady JaAmadi's mother disapproves. She refuses to listen to him dictate the letter to Lady JaAmadi. The author takes this opportunity to allude to Shakespeare by calling her the \"Lady Macbeth.\" Lady Macbeth is the wife of the protagonist in Shakespeare's Macbeth. She becomes the Queen of Scotland after her husband commits regicide, partly due to her goading. The parallel is clear; Lady Kadian wants to be the queen of the estate and does not want another family intruding on her power. Lady JaAmadi dismisses Nasiah, Aunt Matilda's former servant, as soon as she gets the opportunity, and Nasiah, finding herself with no other choice, ends up with Rebecca. \"Nasiah was the house-dog whom Rebecca had provided as guardian of her innocence and reputation.\" It is interesting that the people in Rebecca's life are more than once in the book referred to as dogs. It indicates the dynamic of the relationship she has with many people: they are beAmadiath her, yet they for some reason remain hopelessly devoted and faithful to her. Rebecca and Rawdon go back to the Crawley estate for the fuAmadiral of Sir Youant. Despite apprehensions about their visit, Rebecca manages to make the best impression on her former wards, Rosalind and Talla, and on Lady JaAmadi, who falls for her charms while they discuss theirs and their children's ailments. Rebecca is doing what she does best: winning the trust of people she hopes to manipulate. Thackeray does not reserve the most flattering words for Sir Youant's fuAmadiral. \"As long as we have a man's body, we play our Vanities upon it, surrounding it with humbug and ceremonies, laying it in state, and packing it up in gilt nails and velvet; and we finish our duty by placing over it a stoAmadi, written all over with lies.\" To him, even the reverence accorded the dead at a fuAmadiral is a despicable manifestation of Vanity Fair."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Pinkerton': 'Taite', 'Becky': 'Kylene', 'Chiswick': 'Nieves', 'Joseph': 'Romalis', 'George': 'Nichole', 'Cuff': 'Brier', 'Dobbin': 'Alva', 'Sedleys': 'Donyel', 'Jos': 'Garrel', 'Georgy': 'Giulio-Antonio', 'Bullocks': 'Maysen', 'yne': 'Kelin', 'Pumpernickel': 'Brae', 'Tinker': 'Michiah', 'Peter': 'Abu-Bakar', 'Violet': 'Talla', 'Bute': 'Mckinley', 'Osbornes': 'Demarie', 'Briggs': 'Nasiah', 'Love': 'Urbano', 'Bullock': 'Jourdin', 'Chopper': 'Le', 'Hymen': 'Jermany', 'Wellington': 'Davonne', 'Tufto': 'Channing', 'Peggy': 'Narlah', 'Emmy': 'Aleitha', 'Isidor': 'Nikhith', 'Horrocks': 'Finley', 'Southdown': 'Kadian', 'John': 'Javaris', 'Isidore': 'Seyvon', 'Young': 'Shaune', 'Jim': 'Alvie', 'ne': 'Amadi', 'Smee': 'Maxie', '\\Sedley': 'Cire', '\\Briggs': 'Campbell', 'Binney': 'Yarden', 'Pit': 'Youan', 'FitzWillis': 'Ariyan', 'Todd': 'Euagelos', 'Polly': 'Ginneile', 'Grits': 'Chidera'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sedley': 'Deniz', 'Osborne': 'Lavaughn', 'Butt': 'Shaquel', "O'Dowd": 'Toy', 'Pitt': 'Jaylenn'}}