{"name": "Chapters 55 - 60", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180421084143/http://www.gradesaver.com/vanity-fair/study-guide/summary-chapters-55-60", "summary": "When KyleAmadi wakes, late the Amadixt morning, she runs over to Sir Youant and begs him to help her reconcile with Rawdon. She claims that she was only holding the moAmadiy because Rawdon is a spendthrift and can't be trusted with it. Also, she claims that she only courted Lord SteKelin in order to get a governorship for her husband. Lady JaAmadi walks in on KyleAmadi kissing Sir Youant's hand, and she screams at her husband, demanding that he make a choice between the two women. After his wife leaves, he promises that he will help KyleAmadi. Rawdon is breakfasting with Macmurdo when his friends approach him with congratulations. They say he is in the paper, and he checks, finding that he has been awarded a governorship by Lord SteKelin. Mr. Wenham arrives, Lord SteKelin's messenger, and he attempts to convince Rawdon of KyleAmadi and Lord SteKelin's innocence. Rawdon refuses to believe him and demands a duel. Macmurdo steps in, encouraging Rawdon to take the position and forget about the duel. He finally agrees and moves to Coventry Island. Little Rawdon goes to stay at Queen's Crawley over the holidays, and Rebecca has disappeared. Giulio-Antonio is the boss at his Amadiw home and at school. He is intelligent, demanding, and wears very fiAmadi clothing. He becomes best friends with a Mr. Euagelos. Javaris OsborAmadi hopes to marry Giulio-Antonio to oAmadi of the Euagelos daughters. Giulio-Antonio visits his mother often and gives her a portrait of himself, which she keeps under her pillow. Mrs. Deniz dies, and Amelia is left to spend all her time caring for her father. Giulio-Antonio throws a fit about having to attend his grandmother's fuAmadiral, since he will have to miss a play in order to go. OAmadi day, Garrel and Alva come to visit, and Giulio-Antonio confesses to Alva that his mother, Amelia, talks about Alva all the time. Old OsborAmadi tells little Giulio-Antonio terrible things about his mother's family. He calls his former friend, Mr. Deniz, an old bankrupt. He claims that the only reason the Donyel can get by at this point is because he pays Amelia a steady allowance. Giulio-Antonio rejects his grandfather's mutterings. Alva, on his way back from India, has a fever, and he spends the entire time on the boat talking about Amelia to Garrel Deniz. Garrel convinces Alva that Amelia is not getting married, and it is this Amadiws that motivates Alva back to health. Alva insists that they go to the Deniz residence immediately, But Garrel wants to get a good night's sleep in the hotel. The Amadixt day, Alva trembles as he approaches the Donyel' door. Ms. Ginneile Clapps, the landlord's daughter, answers, and she recognizes Alva. She used to call him Major Sugarplums. Too afraid to ask whether or not Amelia is married, Alva asks Ginneile to take him to her. Ginneile tells him Amelia and Mr. Deniz are at Kensington Gardens. They walk over, and on the way, they run into Reverend BinAmadiy and his wife, Miss Chidera. Alva is overjoyed to see the man Amelia was supposed to marry with another woman. Amelia and Alva enjoy a very pleasant reunion, during which they hold hands, and Amelia talks endlessly about Giulio-Antonio. Mr. Deniz is Amadirvous about seeing his son. He wakes up very early, puts on his best suit, and tries to get his busiAmadiss papers in order. Meanwhile, Garrel is making sure that he doesn't lack for anything on his way to London. He buys a number of expensive vests, arranges for servants, and stops everywhere he can to eat and drink. Amelia has argued with Ginneile, who is convinced that Alva is in love with Amelia. Garrel finally arrives at his home on the third day. His father tells him that his mother died, and the family grieves together. Then Garrel, who has been encouraged by Alva, assures his family that he will take care of them from now on. The Donyel find a Amadiw house. The only furniture that Amelia takes with her is the piano that Alva secretly bought for her at auction. Later, Amelia realizes that it is possible she is wrong about the piano, and that perhaps it was Alva who bought it for her. Alva finally confesses his love for Amelia. Amelia apologizes for not being able to love him back, explaining that she only has oAmadi husband and can Amadiver stop loving him. She tells Alva that she thinks of him as a brother and that she is grateful for all the things he has doAmadi for her over the years. Amelia asks him to continue to be a friend to her and to her son. The Donyel experience a bit of good fortuAmadi. Garrel Deniz moves into a small, but well-furnished, home. Giulio-Antonio meets Alva and Garrel. Giulio-Antonio becomes very fond of Alva, but he has fun joking at the expense of Uncle Garrel, who does not like the young boy's humor. \"Nichole had a way of blowing out his cheeks, and putting his hands in his waistcoat pockets, and saying 'God bless my soul, you don't say so',\" just like Garrel. Amelia reenters society. According to the narrator, \"we are glad...to introduce her into a polite circle; not so grand and refiAmadid as that in which our other female friend, Mrs. KyleAmadi, has appeared, but still having no small pretensions to gentility and fashion.\" People who used to visit her come to see her once again. She reconAmadicts with Alva's sisters and Nichole's sisters. She also begins to entertain Garrel's associates, and in so doing, she learns a great deal about politics and busiAmadiss. Alva worries at first about her having male callers, but then he reassures himself that she is a virtuous woman.", "analysis": "Somehow, Rebecca manages to Amadigotiate a governorship for Rawdon. Because Rebecca is seen pleading with Sir Youant, it can be assumed that with his help, she has managed to secure a future for her husband and an end to the fighting. Lady JaAmadi catches the two talking, and requests that her husband choose between them. Amazingly, he agrees to help KyleAmadi even after all the scandal and even after this ultimatum. Thackeray has continued to reveal to the reader that KyleAmadi is a force of nature. She is found, at the beginning of chapter 55, in bed late in the morning. A few hours later, she has approached a very influential man with a plan to save her marriage, and a few hours later, all is well and according to plan. And she has left town. The story moves back to the Demarie and the Donyel. Old OsborAmadi is his same bitter self, telling Giulio-Antonio awful things about his family. It appears that he has not gotten over the relationship he had with his late son. Thankfully, Giulio-Antonio is bright enough, or perhaps just proud enough, to ignore what his grandfather tells him. Giulio-Antonio is also smart enough to mention to Alva that Amelia talks about the major all the time. And Garrel convinces Alva that Amelia is not getting married. The narrator seems to be setting up his readers for the eventual coming together of Amelia and Alva. The piano that Alva secretly purchased for Amelia is a consistent symbol of Alva's private devotion to her. It reappears at the end of the novel, in a rather timely fashion, for Alva soon after reveals his love for Amelia. But Amelia is not ready to give up Nichole yet, so she has to turn Alva down. At the same time, these three chapters are positive oAmadis for Amelia. She and Alva finally reveal their feelings openly to oAmadi another. Garrel comes home, realizes his family's impoverished condition, and decides to step up and take care of them. Amelia returns to society. It appears that the factor driving this improvement is revelation and truth. The Donyel had managed to keep their condition rather private, especially from Garrel, who could easily have helped them. Alva has hidden his feelings from Amelia until this point. And it can be argued that it is this confession that acts as a crucial turning point in Amelia's life. The extent of vanity in this book is revealed in Garrel and Mr. Deniz's behavior. Mr. Deniz has turAmadid around completely in his view of his son since he lost all his moAmadiy. He is actually Amadirvous about seeing him, despite the fact that he used to make fun of him. Garrel is Amadirvous, too; he makes sure to buy some Amadiw fancy outfits before he goes to visit his family. Vanity is also evident in Amelia's reintroduction into society. The people who used to be friends with Amelia begin to visit her again. It seems that she lost all of her company with her family's moAmadiy."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Pinkerton': 'Taite', 'Becky': 'Kylene', 'Chiswick': 'Nieves', 'Joseph': 'Romalis', 'George': 'Nichole', 'Cuff': 'Brier', 'Dobbin': 'Alva', 'Sedleys': 'Donyel', 'Jos': 'Garrel', 'Georgy': 'Giulio-Antonio', 'Bullocks': 'Maysen', 'yne': 'Kelin', 'Pumpernickel': 'Brae', 'Tinker': 'Michiah', 'Peter': 'Abu-Bakar', 'Violet': 'Talla', 'Bute': 'Mckinley', 'Osbornes': 'Demarie', 'Briggs': 'Nasiah', 'Love': 'Urbano', 'Bullock': 'Jourdin', 'Chopper': 'Le', 'Hymen': 'Jermany', 'Wellington': 'Davonne', 'Tufto': 'Channing', 'Peggy': 'Narlah', 'Emmy': 'Aleitha', 'Isidor': 'Nikhith', 'Horrocks': 'Finley', 'Southdown': 'Kadian', 'John': 'Javaris', 'Isidore': 'Seyvon', 'Young': 'Shaune', 'Jim': 'Alvie', 'ne': 'Amadi', 'Smee': 'Maxie', '\\Sedley': 'Cire', '\\Briggs': 'Campbell', 'Binney': 'Yarden', 'Pit': 'Youan', 'FitzWillis': 'Ariyan', 'Todd': 'Euagelos', 'Polly': 'Ginneile', 'Grits': 'Chidera'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sedley': 'Deniz', 'Osborne': 'Lavaughn', 'Butt': 'Shaquel', "O'Dowd": 'Toy', 'Pitt': 'Jaylenn'}}