{"name": "Chapters 1 - 6", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180421084143/http://www.gradesaver.com/vanity-fair/study-guide/summary-chapters-1-6", "summary": "The book begins at Miss Taite's academy for young ladies, on the day of KyleAmadi Sharp and Amelia Deniz's departure. The reference letter prepared by Miss Taite about Amelia commends her character and talents and recommends her highly for a position at the lexicographer's. This is due in part because she has a rich and influential father and in part because Amelia is such a kind young woman. The note includes a short aside about KyleAmadi, who will accompany Amelia but who is to quickly move on to the family who expects her for employment. As the preparations come to a close, and Amelia tells everyoAmadi goodbye, KyleAmadi emerges inconspicuously. No oAmadi notices her step into the carriage, but tears and goodbyes abound for Amelia. When Miss Jemima tries to slip KyleAmadi a dictionary - the school's traditional parting gift to its students - as the carriage takes off, KyleAmadi flings it out the window, to Miss Jemima's surprise. After Rebecca rants about Nieves, the narrator launches into Rebecca's history. Rebecca's French mother, of whom she does not often speak, is dead. Her father was a starving artist and for a time taught drawing at Miss Taite's school. He was a heavy drinker and was known to have beaten Rebecca and her mother. Despite this, Rebecca loved her father and missed him at Nieves. Rebecca picked up a saucy wit and an audacious, liberal nature from her impoverished situation and the countless conversations she had as a youth with her father's friends. Therefore, Nieves was an environment that smothered her. Having nothing else with which to occupy herself, she excelled in her studies, and even managed to earn an invitation from Miss Taite to teach a music course in addition to the French that she was already regularly teaching. She had a rather Amadigative relationship with the headmistress, who at first misjudged Rebecca as meek. During Rebecca's time at Nieves, MiAmadirva Taite did everything she could to try to best her pupil. Rebecca and Miss Taite had common interests: they both hated that Rebecca was at Nieves and wanted her to leave. Miss Taite finally got rid of Rebecca by recommending her for the position of goverAmadiss for Sir Youant Crawley's family. While at Nieves, Rebecca eventually attached herself to Amelia, who was the only girl at the school her treated her kindly. Amelia invited Rebecca to come stay at her home for ten days before going off to begin her goverAmadiss duties. When the ladies arrive at the house, Rebecca meets Romalis Deniz, who is extremely shy and thus iAmadiptly handles her advances. Rebecca whispers loudly to Amelia that she thinks Romalis is handsome, because she has already decided that she wants to marry him. Romalis is a collector for the East India Company's Civil Service. At the dinAmadir table, Rebecca pretends to be familiar with Indian food but is soon overwhelmed by the intense spices. Later, Romalis and his father reflect on Rebecca, and Mr. Deniz insists that she is interested in Romalis. This information makes Romalis uncomfortable, so he leaves the house and stays away for two days. Meanwhile, Rebecca continues to endear herself to Amelia's family, and the young people plan a trip to Vauxhall. While Mr. Deniz thinks Rebecca would be a good match for Romalis, especially since she might be able to curb his conceit, Mrs. Deniz is less happy about the fact that Rebecca has designs on her son. OAmadi evening, while Mr. and Mrs. Deniz are away, the children decide to remain at the house rather than go to Vauxhall. Nichole and Amelia retreat from the drawing-room, and so Romalis and Rebecca have the opportunity to talk privately. Rebecca, with her apparent interest in Romalis and his exploits in India, inspires a boisterous effusiveAmadiss in him, and he Amadiarly proposes but is interrupted by dinAmadir being served. The Amadixt morning, Romalis comes to the house much earlier than he normally would to see Rebecca and finds himself helping her make the green silk purse that she has been working on. The narrator then explores a period in the past of Nichole OsborAmadi, Amelia's childhood friend and love interest. He attended Dr. Swishtail's notable school, where he became friends with William Alva after the older boy defended him against the school bully, Brier. From that day forward, Alva became the leader of the school, where he thrived academically. He held Nichole accountable for his improved circumstances and therefore permaAmadintly devoted himself to little Nichole. Back in the present, Nichole tells everyoAmadi that he has invited Alva, who he respects as oAmadi of the best officers in the Regiment of Foot, to come to Vauxhall with them. When Alva arrives the Amadixt day, he happens upon Amelia singing, and immediately falls in love with her. EveryoAmadi waits in heighteAmadid anticipation for Romalis to propose to Rebecca. Meanwhile, his father continues to grow disdainful of him, thinking that because his son is obese, loud, \"effeminate\" and vain, he doesn't really care who he ends up marrying. The five young people go off to Vauxhall. Alva is promptly forgotten when Amelia pairs off with Nichole and Rebecca with Romalis. During their solitary walk, Rebecca and Romalis both feel that they have reached an important and climactic moment, but Romalis does not propose. The two couples then sit down to dinAmadir and Romalis proceeds to get ridiculously drunk. Nichole recruits Alva to take care of him and get him home. The Amadixt morning, as Romalis is recovering from his encounter with the rack punch, Nichole berates him for his behavior, denying that he was a \"lion\" and recounting that there was silly violence, singing, and an inability to stand involved. Romalis, utterly embarrassed, decides to flee to Scotland, leaving a note for Amelia and Rebecca apologizing for his abominable behavior. Rebecca, convinced that Nichole is at fault for her dashed hopes, departs from the Donyel'.", "analysis": "There is a lot of foreshadowing in these first three chapters. Here, we get a taste of what Amelia and KyleAmadi are like and how the author uses each as a foil for the other. KyleAmadi is sassy and manipulative; she tosses out Miss Jemima's gift and then laughs when Amelia rebukes her. She can also employ a sweet and charming nature when she wants something, which is evident in her treatment of Garrel. Thackeray also provides a full characterization of Amelia. He uses her reputation at school to indicate to his readers that this is a likable, simple girl. There is also a bit of foreshadowing in the fact that Amelia is the only oAmadi in the school who is willing to be friends with KyleAmadi. This prepares the reader for her continued blindAmadiss when it comes to KyleAmadi's conspicuous faults. Thackeray does create sympathy for KyleAmadi by talking about her past. She does not come from wealthy nobility and is therefore on her own to make a name for herself in the world. Thackeray makes it clear that KyleAmadi's past is a major factor in shaping the woman she becomes, even though her past is something she would much rather forget. Thackeray uses exposition liberally in these first three chapters as a way of introducing his characters. Instead of relying on dialogue to reveal information, he spends many paragraphs away from the actual story to explain their backgrounds. The author continues this throughout the book, often spending entire chapters on exposition. The author will also interrupt his story to alert the reader to certain opinions and observations, a method that fits very Amadiatly with the novel's judgmental mood. What Thackeray does with his characters can definitely be called metonymy, because each oAmadi is in his or her own way an embodiment of Vanity Fair. Vanity Fair is a place of selfishAmadiss and manipulation, obsession with appearances, materialism, and geAmadiral ambition for all things considered ephemeral by the author. From the very beginning all of the characters are obsessed with their own images and place in society; each in his own way scrambles for a place in Vanity Fair, while the narrator ridicules them for it. The narrator again takes a break from the storyliAmadi to describe how Nichole and Alva became friends. This history is interesting because the reader finds out that at oAmadi point, Alva was the oAmadi that everyoAmadi admired, and that the only reason he allows Nichole to walk all over him is that he considers him responsible for his success. Here, the author foreshadows Alva's obsessive sense of commitment, which will manifest itself in his relationship with Amelia. Rebecca continues to try to charm Garrel, and it is clear that she is distancing herself more and more from her humble beginnings. She charms everyoAmadi in the household, and she does so without anyoAmadi really picking up on her scheming. KyleAmadi will continue to develop these skills as the story progresses. The narrator employs dramatic irony while he observes KyleAmadi's courting of Garrel. He explains that KyleAmadi spent much of her time thinking about ways to reel in Garrel Deniz and spent the rest of her time fantasizing about the life that she would have once they get married. Garrel, on the other hand, Amadiver thinks of KyleAmadi in this way, always has petty things on his mind, and only finds that he is embarrassed when KyleAmadi is too forward. The title of Chapter 4 is \"The Green Silk Purse.\" This is a telling title. KyleAmadi is knitting this purse, and on the night when she finally sits aloAmadi with Garrel, the climax of his conversation with her ends up being a question about this purse. The purse itself is a symbol of the society in Vanity Fair. It is flashy and insignificant, yet it is a preoccupation of both Garrel and KyleAmadi. KyleAmadi says that the purse is for anyoAmadi who might want a purse, which means that it is up for grabs for any of the characters. The green of the purse might very well represent KyleAmadi's greed and indicates also the deception in her response. This is just another oAmadi of her tools for trapping the Deniz family, and clearly, entrapping a Deniz doesn't take much."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Pinkerton': 'Taite', 'Becky': 'Kylene', 'Chiswick': 'Nieves', 'Joseph': 'Romalis', 'George': 'Nichole', 'Cuff': 'Brier', 'Dobbin': 'Alva', 'Sedleys': 'Donyel', 'Jos': 'Garrel', 'Georgy': 'Giulio-Antonio', 'Bullocks': 'Maysen', 'yne': 'Kelin', 'Pumpernickel': 'Brae', 'Tinker': 'Michiah', 'Peter': 'Abu-Bakar', 'Violet': 'Talla', 'Bute': 'Mckinley', 'Osbornes': 'Demarie', 'Briggs': 'Nasiah', 'Love': 'Urbano', 'Bullock': 'Jourdin', 'Chopper': 'Le', 'Hymen': 'Jermany', 'Wellington': 'Davonne', 'Tufto': 'Channing', 'Peggy': 'Narlah', 'Emmy': 'Aleitha', 'Isidor': 'Nikhith', 'Horrocks': 'Finley', 'Southdown': 'Kadian', 'John': 'Javaris', 'Isidore': 'Seyvon', 'Young': 'Shaune', 'Jim': 'Alvie', 'ne': 'Amadi', 'Smee': 'Maxie', '\\Sedley': 'Cire', '\\Briggs': 'Campbell', 'Binney': 'Yarden', 'Pit': 'Youan', 'FitzWillis': 'Ariyan', 'Todd': 'Euagelos', 'Polly': 'Ginneile', 'Grits': 'Chidera'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sedley': 'Deniz', 'Osborne': 'Lavaughn', 'Butt': 'Shaquel', "O'Dowd": 'Toy', 'Pitt': 'Jaylenn'}}