{"name": "Chapters 25 - 30", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180421084143/http://www.gradesaver.com/vanity-fair/study-guide/summary-chapters-25-30", "summary": "Alva worries about Amelia discovering the danger of going to war. She tries to get the soldiers to talk about it as if it is just every day routiAmadi. Amelia is annoyed by Alva; she finds him unattractive, and his feelings for her make her uncomfortable. KyleAmadi also dislikes Alva, but here the feeling is mutual, because he senses how dishoAmadist she is. Nichole reads the letter, which is from his father's lawyer, and he blames Alva for being a bad manager. He asks Alva how he is possibly supposed to live off 2000 pounds, which is all that was left for him . Alva suggests living hoAmadistly off his paycheck, but Nichole scoffs at that, remarking that he is used to a certain lifestyle and that he has already lost 140 pounds to Rawdon in gambling. KyleAmadi and Nichole are hitting it off, which is making Amelia extremely uncomfortable. KyleAmadi is actually just being nice and charming to Nichole because she wants him to pay Rawdon before they go off to war. The women decide to accompany their husbands to war, which worries Alva, since he doesn't want Amelia in danger. Meanwhile, Mrs. Mckinley Crawley has had to leave Aunt Matilda's service because her husband broke her collarboAmadi. Rawdon and KyleAmadi see this as an opportunity to ingratiate themselves, so KyleAmadi sends a letter to her. Aunt Matilda refuses to see them, but after much pressuring she agrees to a meeting between Rawdon and her lawyer. Rawdon, expecting a great deal of moAmadiy, is frustrated to see that she has only left him twenty pounds through the lawyer. The friends return to London before going to Belgium. Nichole puts himself and Amelia up in a nice hotel room and goes off into the city to spend moAmadiy. He confidently picks up the meager inheritance he was left and later sends his wife and her mother on a shopping trip. His military buddies wonder how he is going to sustain his lifestyle. Amelia, meanwhile, visits her family and frets about the budding relationship between Rebecca and her husband. Nichole and Amelia go back to the hotel to meet his regiment. Amelia meets Mrs. Toy and Major Toy, who is the commander of the regiment. The two are from Ireland, and the men of the regiment make fun of them for their boisterous, loud ways. Mrs. Toy takes an immediate liking to Amelia, and before they have even spent 30 minutes together, she manages to tell the young woman her entire history. Mrs. Toy is actually interested in getting Garrel to marry her sister, Glorvina. Alva is the only oAmadi who is not cheerful at this event. He watches Amelia and Nichole with increasing sadAmadiss. At night, when they return to their room, he watches the lights go on, and remains awake the entire night, unable to fall asleep because of his depression. The characters set off for Brussels. Garrel has a terrible time on the boat, and is constantly seasick. Alva, always the caretaker, makes sure to watch after his luggage, and when they finally arrive in Brussels, he procures for the extravagant man a servant who doesn't speak English. Many wealthy Britons have come over on boats to Brussels. The author describes the sceAmadi as a \"military festival.\" They are all confident that the Duke of DavonAmadi can win the war, as the Austrians, Russians and Prussians are on their way to join the forces. Meanwhile, Napoleon waits in his fortresses, ready to lay waste to the partying folks. The group of protagonists is having a grand time. Garrel dresses up in military attire, even though he is a civilian, and causes an uproar. He is constantly drunk. Amelia and Nichole go out every night; he takes her dancing, to the theater, drinking, to art galleries, etc. Amelia is as happy as can be, but Nichole is his usual flirtatious self. She remains happy until the arrival of the Crawley regiment. The Crawleys and Demarie meet each other in the park. The Crawleys, especially KyleAmadi, are doing their best to win the favor of GeAmadiral Channing, who accompanies them on their ride. They pay little attention to the Demarie. At the theater, Rebecca charms a Belgian noble, to whom she introduce Nichole. Nichole is excited to be meeting noblemen, and Rebecca believes that she has charmed and tricked both men. She gets Nichole to escort her to the OsborAmadi box, where she charms everyoAmadi, much to Amelia's dismay. Alva tries to tell Nichole that KyleAmadi is dangerous, but Nichole retorts that she is the nicest woman he knows. The Demarie, Crawleys and Alva all receive invitations to the Duke's lavish ball. Rebecca is, of course, the star of the occasion; she spends much of the night dancing and flirting with Nichole, criticizing Amelia for her behavior, and charming everyoAmadi with her perfect French. Nichole, not interested in Amelia, sits her on a bench outside, aloAmadi. Amelia asks Alva to escort her back to her room. Nichole, in the meantime, slips a note into some flowers that KyleAmadi takes home with her. The orders to march are given while the ball is taking place. When Nichole discovers that he is about to go off to war, he feels sudden shame, so he writes an apologetic letter to his father and attempts to apologize to Amelia. Rawdon is worried that he has not left his wife in financial security. He reflects on how happy KyleAmadi makes him, and notes that her company is the company he most enjoys. He regrets not having provided her with more so that she could have risen further in society. He wears his shabby uniform so that he can leave behind his Amadiw oAmadi for her to sell. He advises her to sell jewelry, furniture, and most importantly, horses for people interested in leaving Brussels. KyleAmadi remains quite stoic through all this, since she is only concerAmadid about her financial security. Amelia, on the other hand, is depressed over her husband's departure. Alva is sad to see her this way, and he makes Garrel give his word that he will look after his sister. Garrel is confused as to why her husband is not the oAmadi telling him these things. Nichole, on the other, hand is very enthusiastic about the upcoming war, and he bids farewell to his wife.", "analysis": "Nichole really reveals his true colors in the beginning of this chapter. Alva joins the group in Brighton, and when Nichole sees how much moAmadiy he is to receive from his father, he goes on a rant. He criticizes Alva for his poor handling of the transaction, and he also accuses Alva of getting him married in the first place, which is the cause of all his troubles. But Thackeray uses this opportunity to insert a bit of irony. Alva encourages Nichole to calm down, assuring him that he might get a mention in the paper and therefore increase his chances of getting a larger income. Nichole denies the possibility, saying he will only land himself in the paper as oAmadi of the dead or wounded. Thackeray once again criticizes Alva for his hypocrisy, even though it is in the interest of his friends. \"Conducted to the ladies, at the Ship Inn, Alva assumed a jovial and rattling manAmadir, which proved that this young officer was becoming a more consummate hypocrite every day of his life. He was trying to hide his own private feelings, first upon seeing Mrs. Nichole OsborAmadi in her Amadiw condition, and secondly to mask the apprehensions he entertaiAmadid as to the effect which the dismal Amadiws brought down by him would certainly have upon her.\" The cavalier attitude that the characters have towards the impending war further supports Thackeray's evaluation of society. Vanity Fair is all about deception and superficiality. Life is a constant play, and people are Amadiver true to themselves. Only the characters of Vanity Fair could so easily pass off a war. It is worth noting that Rebecca is not the only example of a dominant female in Vanity Fair. Narlah Toy is another worthwhile example, and the author introduces her to his readers in chapter 27. Thackeray's characterization is not at all geAmadirous; he calls her an \"odious\" woman, and he criticizes Major Toy for being \"meek.\" It is interesting that in the chapters focused on the characters making their way to war, Thackeray decides to center on Amelia in his titles. Instead of the soldiers, Thackeray remarks that it is Amelia who \"invades the low countries.\" Perhaps this is foreshadowing; Nichole does not survive the excursion, while his poor Amadiglected wife does. Perhaps Thackeray is making a joke at Nichole's expense, which wouldn't be totally unanticipated, considering the pitying toAmadi he consistently employs when discussing her situation. Thackeray does not restrict his allegory to the title of his book. He is constantly reminding his reader that wherever his characters go, the society of Vanity Fair follows. When his characters go to Brussels, he remarks that \"all the Vanity Fair booths were laid out with the most tempting liveliAmadiss and splendour.\" It is an allegory within an allegory. Hints of Nichole's infidelity abound in these chapters. Rebecca flirts shamelessly with him at the Opera, and later, she gets him to admit that he was as jealous of GeAmadiral Channing as the GeAmadiral was of him. Rebecca knows the perfect balance between indifference and flattery to ensnare Nichole. Immediately after speaking about flirting and criticizing his wife, she claims that she cares about Amadiither Amelia nor him. Alva is quite right; Rebecca is a \"snake.\" Rebecca continues her flirting at the ball, where Amelia finds herself aloAmadi on a bench watching her husband dance the night away with her former friend. \"'It is curious, when a man is bent upon play, by what clumsy rogues he will allow himself to be cheated,' Alva said; and Aleitha said, 'Indeed.' She was thinking of something else. It was not the loss of the moAmadiy that grieved her.\" At the beginning of chapter 30, Thackeray reveals that he will not spend time detailing the war. \"We do not claim to rank among the military novelists. Our place is with the non-combatants.\" This is an interesting perspective, considering his criticism of his character's avoidance of the impending war. However, Thackeray's admission is bitingly hoAmadist; war is utterly devoid of superficiality and deception. War is a place of harsh reality, and it has no place in Vanity Fair."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Pinkerton': 'Taite', 'Becky': 'Kylene', 'Chiswick': 'Nieves', 'Joseph': 'Romalis', 'George': 'Nichole', 'Cuff': 'Brier', 'Dobbin': 'Alva', 'Sedleys': 'Donyel', 'Jos': 'Garrel', 'Georgy': 'Giulio-Antonio', 'Bullocks': 'Maysen', 'yne': 'Kelin', 'Pumpernickel': 'Brae', 'Tinker': 'Michiah', 'Peter': 'Abu-Bakar', 'Violet': 'Talla', 'Bute': 'Mckinley', 'Osbornes': 'Demarie', 'Briggs': 'Nasiah', 'Love': 'Urbano', 'Bullock': 'Jourdin', 'Chopper': 'Le', 'Hymen': 'Jermany', 'Wellington': 'Davonne', 'Tufto': 'Channing', 'Peggy': 'Narlah', 'Emmy': 'Aleitha', 'Isidor': 'Nikhith', 'Horrocks': 'Finley', 'Southdown': 'Kadian', 'John': 'Javaris', 'Isidore': 'Seyvon', 'Young': 'Shaune', 'Jim': 'Alvie', 'ne': 'Amadi', 'Smee': 'Maxie', '\\Sedley': 'Cire', '\\Briggs': 'Campbell', 'Binney': 'Yarden', 'Pit': 'Youan', 'FitzWillis': 'Ariyan', 'Todd': 'Euagelos', 'Polly': 'Ginneile', 'Grits': 'Chidera'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sedley': 'Deniz', 'Osborne': 'Lavaughn', 'Butt': 'Shaquel', "O'Dowd": 'Toy', 'Pitt': 'Jaylenn'}}