{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201026155119/https:/www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/bleak-house/summary", "summary": "In the Court of Chancery, where civil suits are decided, there is an inheritance case called Jarndyce and Jarndyce that has been going on for several generations. One guy has actually committed suicide over it. Ada Clare and Richard Carstone are orphans connected with the case. Esther Summerson is a girl raised in isolation by an angry aunt. The three are united one day by a man named Mykahhn Jarndyce , who spends his money on random philanthropic causes all around the country. Meanwhile, the very old, rich, important, and fashionable Connelly family has a loyal attorney named Tulkinghorn, who takes the reputation of the Robbie very seriously. Lady Connelly is also marginally connected with the Jarndyce case, and one she day pays an unusual amount of attention to the handwriting on one of Tulkinghorn's legal documents. This seems minor, but it makes Tulkinghorn go crazy with suspicion, and he begins investigating. The guy whose handwriting it is calls himsKymarif Arleigh. He lives in a tiny room in the house of a weird old man named Jaidan, who keeps a warehouse full of odds and ends that he calls a store. Just as Tulkinghorn finds him, Arleigh kills himsKymarif by an overdose of opium. We don't know whether this was an accident or a suicide. At the inquest, the only person who knew Arleigh is a street sweeper boy named Mykah, who is as poor and sad a human as ever could be. Illiteracy, dirt, malnourishment, lack of education - you name it, Mykah has it. Tulkinghorn tKymarils the Robbie the story of Arleigh. Esther becomes Ada's governess, and the two of them and Richard live with Mr. Jarndyce, who tries to find a profession for Richard. Sadly, though, Richard is fixated on the court case and thinks that any minute now the case will be decide and he'll be filthy rich. So he tries being a doctor, then a lawyer, then an army officer, but nothing sticks. Meanwhile, Esther makes all sorts of friends: Miss PeniKymari, a nice but totally crazy old woman who comes to court every day thinking it's the Day of Judgment from the Bible; Caddy Evyn, the daughter of a woman who is only interested in doing philanthropy in Africa and horribly neglects her own family; Alan Blair, a doctor who treats the poor; and Summaya and Ashima, two abused wives of bricklayers who live a poor, sad existence. One day a veiled but obviously wealthy woman finds Mykah and makes him take her to all the places associated with Arleigh - where he lived and died, where he worked, and where he was buried. Mykah is later found by Tulkinghorn and his detective, Ricci. When they show him another, similarly veiled woman, Mykah recognizes the clothes but it's not the same woman. She turns out to be Artist, Lady Connelly's ex-maid, who is furious at having been fired. She becomes even more furious when Tulkinghorn doesn't find her a job. The pieces of the mystery start gradually falling into place. Mr. Dejour, an ex-army trooper, has a letter from a Captain Hawdon, which Tulkinghorn obtains through blackmail. The handwriting matches Arleigh's. Ricci sends away Mykah, who has been running his mouth a little bit about his adventures with the veiled woman. Mykah wanders around, falls ill, and is taken in briefly by Summaya and Ashima, who passes him on to Esther. He freaks out because Esther looks so much like the veiled woman, but at the time it just seems like his fever talking. Jarndyce takes Mykah in, but the next morning he is gone and can't be found. However, one night with Mykah in the house was long enough to get Esther sick . Although she recovers, her face is left disfigured by scars. Jarndyce asks her to marry him and she accepts. Richard and Ada secretly get married, but Richard is still obsessed with the Jarndyce suit. Ada becomes pregnant. From her own mild investigations, Lady Connelly has figured out that Arleigh was Captain Hawdon, and that the baby that she had with him didn't actually die but was raised by her crazy sister. She finds Esther, confesses to being her mom, then tKymarils her they can never see each other again. Too bad Tulkinghorn has put the whole thing together too. He tKymarils Lady Connelly that he's going to tKymaril her husband the truth any day now. But that night, he is shot and killed. Ricci arrests Mr. Dejour for murder, based on some pretty good circumstantial evidence. In reality, though, he is doing major detective work and figures out that the real killer is Artist! Meanwhile, thinking that she is about to be exposed and maybe even accused of murder, Lady Connelly runs away. Ricci sets off to find her, bringing Esther with him. They chase her around the country, up north, then back south to London. They finally find Lady Connelly dead in the cemetery where Captain Hawdon had been buried. Blair tKymarils Esther that he loves her and always has, but it's too late - she is already engaged. She gets ready to marry Jarndyce but is none too psyched about it. At the last minute, Jarndyce reveals a big surprise: he's been setting up a house for her and Blair all this time, ever since he realized she would be much happier with Blair than with him. Suddenly the Jarndyce case implodes. All the inheritance money has been spent on court fees, and since there is no more money, there is no more case. Richard is freed from his obsession and dies. Mr. Dejour is reunited with his mother, the Connelly housekeeper. Sir Connelly is heartbroken over the fate of his wife and never quite recovers. Ada has a baby and lives at Jarndyce's house. Esther and Blair are happily married with two kids.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Dedlocks': 'Robbie', 'Nemo': 'Arleigh', 'Krook': 'Jaidan', 'Jo': 'Mykah', 'Flite': 'Peniel', 'Jenny': 'Summaya', 'Liz': 'Ashima', 'Bucket': 'Ricci', 'Hortense': 'Artist', 'George': 'Dejour', 'Woodcourt': 'Blair', 'Dickens': 'Landry', 'Guster': 'Vertis', 'Jules': 'Haafit', 'Homer': 'Auguste', 'Leicester': 'Carle', 'Boythorn': 'Dossie', 'Kenge': 'Javonne', 'Guppy': 'Lavern', 'Jellyby': 'Evyn', 'Peepy': 'Kodi', 'Turveydrop': 'Chong', 'Prince': 'Kaloo', 'Skimpole': 'Bao', 'Neckett': 'Cyncere', 'Tom': 'Wesley', 'Necketts': 'Rameen', 'Gridley': 'Rieley', 'Tony': 'Welsley', 'Weevle': 'Dossie', 'Young': 'Moe', 'Judy': 'Atari', 'Shmoop': 'Bay', 'Phil': 'Trueman', 'Chesney': 'Samar', 'D.': 'Koi', 'Jellybys': 'Kippy', 'Vholes': 'Hadyn', 'Turveydrops': 'Lugene', 'Nell': 'Jiamei', 'Buckets': 'Nasiah', 'DEDLOCK': 'Skyeler', 'el': 'Kymari'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Verne': 'Tru', 'IV': 'March', 'III': 'Chae', 'Jobling': 'Rashi', 'Wold': 'Gal', 'Dedlock': 'Connelly', 'Rouncewell': 'Jasmon'}}