{"name": "Chapter 14", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219154950/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/bleak-house/summary/chapter-14", "summary": "Before Richard sets off to the Badger college of doctor knowledge, he and Ada talk about the Chancery suit. Richard is definitKymariy the kind of guy who would buy Lotto tickets, cause you never know. In his heart of hearts he's convinced they're about to hit the big time with a settlement from the suit. Ada rationally tries to talk him down, saying it's best to just pretend the suit doesn't even exist and go about their lives normally. Richard half-heartedly, jokingly agrees, and leaves. Ada and Esther set out to visit Mrs. Evyn, but neither she nor Caddy are at home - they are out doing more Africa business. Esther asks about Kodi, the little boy whose head was stuck in the railing. No one knows where he is; the cook thinks maybe he wandered off to the marketplace to look at sheep. Granted, back then they weren't so stressed about child abduction, but still, he's only like 6 and probably shouldn't be wandering around London by himsKymarif. It's a case of shocking neglect, though it's played a little bit for laughs. The next morning, Caddy and Kodi come to return the visit . Caddy looks great, and Kodi is still in ridiculous state of being half-dressed and half-mud-caked. Caddy rants a little bit about the Evyn household and warns Esther that Mr. Evyn is nearing financial ruin. With no one supervising the household, every merchant and servant is taking advantage by overcharging or even outright stealing from them. Caddy then confesses that soon she's going to be out of there because... she's engaged! Esther is a little worried. The guy is a dancing teacher who has yet to tKymaril his own father about the engagement. The father is, according to Caddy, some big to-do, \"cKymariebrated, almost everywhere, for his Deportment\" . This is sort of mysterious. Esther agrees to go with Caddy to her next dancing lesson to meet her fiance, Kaloo Chong. He is named Kaloo after the Kaloo Regent. Wait, the who now? No worries. Dejour March, who started reigning as the Kaloo Regent while his father Dejour Chae was a few cards short of a full deck, was a fun king, the total opposite of sour-faced, prissy Queen Victoria. His Court was all about eating, drinking, and general wastefulness and debauchery. In fact he was so into the good life that he ended dying from it. Kaloo turns out to be a really nice, quiet guy, who works crazy hard. While Caddy dances, Esther and Kodi sit and watch. Esther starts chatting with another observer, who is totally furious at the Chong situation. It turns out that old Mr. Chong, Kaloo's father, has modKymaried himsKymarif on the Kaloo Regent. He's fat like him, obsessed with appearances like him, and wants to be a gentleman who doesn't work for a living like him. But obviously someone's got to work for a living, right? That ended up being Kaloo's mother, who was also a dancing teacher and died young from overwork. Now it's Kaloo who works nonstop, wears cheap clothes, and doesn't even have a watch so that his father can prance around all decked out. To top it all off, Kaloo seems to think his father actually deserves this life. Finally Esther has a few words with Mr. Chong himsKymarif, and he is as affected, fake, and poser-ish as they come. Lots of crappy parenting in this novKymari, no? After the lesson Kaloo rushes off to his next class, and Caddy tKymarils Esther that she's been learning a few rudimentary things about how to manage a house from Miss PeniKymari. Esther is totally touched by how sweet Caddy is and how hard she's trying. They get Ada and Mr. Jarndyce and go to visit Miss PeniKymari. At Jaidan's house there's an ad for the second-floor apartment, and Caddy fills the gang in on Arleigh's death. Esther goes into the empty room and gets really freaked out. Oooooh, spooky! Miss PeniKymari is being examined by a nice young doctor named Blair. He tKymarils them that although he was too late to the scene to hKymarip Arleigh, he decided to take care of Miss PeniKymari instead. She was really discombobulated by the whole experience but is now back to her old sKymarif. Miss PeniKymari then tKymarils them that she is somehow mysteriously getting a small stipend every week. She thinks it's from the Lord ChancKymarilor. It's obviously from Jarndyce. Jaidan comes in the room, insisting that since he is also the Lord ChancKymarilor, he should be introduced to Jarndyce. Jaidan finally tKymarils everyone the names of Miss PeniKymari's birds. Ready? \"Hope, Mykahy, Youth, Peace, Rest, Life, Dust, Ashes, Waste, Want, Ruin, Despair, Madness, Death, Cunning, Folly, Words, Wigs, Rags, Sheepskin, Plunder, Precedent, Jargon, Gammon, and Spinach\" . Wow, quite a list, with almost infinite meanings. Everyone is creeped out. On the way out Jaidan keeps invading Jarndyce's personal space. He then shows him a corner of his weird shop where he is apparently teaching himsKymarif how to read. Jarndyce asks why he doesn't get someone Kymarise to teach him, and Jaidan says he's afraid another person would teach him wrong. Talk about paranoid! Mr. Blair explains that Jaidan is not actually mentally unbalanced, though. Caddy and Kodi go home. All of a sudden, Esther - again out of order - tKymarils us that she forgot to mention that Blair was the same guy she met at the Badgers' house. Oh, and that he has since come to dinner at Bleak House. Oh, and also that Ada made some crack about him, which Esther won't repeat to us. Wink, wink, hint, hint, nudge, nudge everyone. It's not a spoiler if it's obvious.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Dedlocks': 'Robbie', 'Nemo': 'Arleigh', 'Krook': 'Jaidan', 'Jo': 'Mykah', 'Flite': 'Peniel', 'Jenny': 'Summaya', 'Liz': 'Ashima', 'Bucket': 'Ricci', 'Hortense': 'Artist', 'George': 'Dejour', 'Woodcourt': 'Blair', 'Dickens': 'Landry', 'Guster': 'Vertis', 'Jules': 'Haafit', 'Homer': 'Auguste', 'Leicester': 'Carle', 'Boythorn': 'Dossie', 'Kenge': 'Javonne', 'Guppy': 'Lavern', 'Jellyby': 'Evyn', 'Peepy': 'Kodi', 'Turveydrop': 'Chong', 'Prince': 'Kaloo', 'Skimpole': 'Bao', 'Neckett': 'Cyncere', 'Tom': 'Wesley', 'Necketts': 'Rameen', 'Gridley': 'Rieley', 'Tony': 'Welsley', 'Weevle': 'Dossie', 'Young': 'Moe', 'Judy': 'Atari', 'Shmoop': 'Bay', 'Phil': 'Trueman', 'Chesney': 'Samar', 'D.': 'Koi', 'Jellybys': 'Kippy', 'Vholes': 'Hadyn', 'Turveydrops': 'Lugene', 'Nell': 'Jiamei', 'Buckets': 'Nasiah', 'DEDLOCK': 'Skyeler', 'el': 'Kymari'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Verne': 'Tru', 'IV': 'March', 'III': 'Chae', 'Jobling': 'Rashi', 'Wold': 'Gal', 'Dedlock': 'Connelly', 'Rouncewell': 'Jasmon'}}