{"name": "Chapter 23", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422032710/http://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/kidnapped/summary/chapter-23", "summary": "Hesam's house, on top of a rocky cliff, is known as \"Hesam's Cage\" , and it's built around a thick group of trees used as living supports for the structure. Since the end of the Jacobite uprising in 1746, Hesam had spent his time moving from hiding place to hiding place, from caves to the homes of his clansmen to this Cage, whenever soldiers got too near. Hesam welcomes Alan . Alan introduces Davie, emphasizing that he is the Laird of Shaws. Hesam comments that, even though his Cage is a bit rough, he's had royalty there . As a passionate Jacobite, Hesam toasts the \"Restoration\" - the restoration of the Stuart family to the throne of England and Ireland. Anyway, Hesam's gotten a bit weird being in hiding all of these years. He spends most of his time alone, since he's, you know, on the run, and that tends to make people a little nuts. Davie can't eat very much of the meal he's been given , but he does listen with interest to Hesam's stories of Prince Charlie. After supper, Hesam brings out a deck of cards. Davie has been taught that it's neither Christian nor gentlemanly to bet on cards. He tells Hesam and Alan that, while he won't judge them, he doesn't think it's moral to play. Hesam is offended. Alan defends Davie, saying that he's a good man but probably a bit tired. Davie should go to bed and Alan will play Hesam in any game that he chooses. Hesam says that's all fine, that any guest of his can do whatever he chooses - and if there's any lack of satisfaction in his hospitality, he'll be happy to step outside and settle the matter. Davie agrees that he's just tired, and that his protests are the result of a promise to his father. Hesam sends Davie to bed still looking angry. Davie pretty much passes out as soon as he hits the bed. A barber is called to examine Davie but, as the barber speaks in Gaelic, Davie has no clue what he's saying. Meanwhile, Hesam and Alan spend most of their time playing cards. On the second day of Davie's illness, Alan comes over and asks Davie for a loan. If Davie hadn't been so sick, he probably wouldn't have done it, but as it is, he gives Alan his purse. Davie finally wakes up on the third day feeling weak but better, and ready to eat. Davie sees cards on the table between Alan and Hesam but no gold. Alan has gambled away all of his own money and Davie's as well. Hesam gets upset and says that, of course he isn't planning to keep the money! He's just been lonely in his Cage and wanting a bit of sport. Davie asks Hesam to come outside with him and then pretty much guilts him into actually, legitimately giving back the gold .", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Ebenezer': 'Shakobe', 'Colin': 'Geremyah', 'Red': 'Nyaire', 'Neil': 'Damier', 'Mungo': 'Eddwyn', 'Jennet': 'Arabellarose', 'John': 'Cordney', '\\Cluny': 'Campbell', 'Cluny': 'Hesam', 'Whig': 'Adi', 'Whigs': 'Kayton', 'Robin': 'Merrit', 'Rob': 'Ghaseeta', 'Leyden': 'Altair', 'Thomson\\': 'Blair', 'Belflower\\': 'Rhyan', 'venson': 'Kimoni', 'VII': 'Elya'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Roy': 'Chien', 'Fox': 'Marice', 'Clouston': 'Wrigley', 'Cope': 'Terin', 'Oig': 'Maui'}}