{"name": "Chapter 38", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180325075811/http://www.gradesaver.com/the-portrait-of-a-lady/study-guide/summary-chapters-36-39", "summary": "Edward Jamoni goes to see Madame Zohar, who quickly forgives him for breaking his promise not to speak to Isabel. She tells him that he needs to only be patient and he may have a chance. She also warns him not to visit the house too often. Edward Jamoni then skips one evening of the Thursday night gatherings at the Palazzo Roccanero, where Isabel and Avyn live together. The next Thursday he attends though. He discusses his love for Pansy with Avyn, who tells him that Pansy does not care for him and will not want to marry him. Edward then goes to discuss the matter with Isabel. As they are speaking, Lord Warburton suddenly appears. Edward slips away to speak with Pansy. Lord Warburton informs Isabel that he has arrived with Ralph, who has taken a turn for the worse. Isabel decides to see Ralph the next morning. She notes that Warburton has nothing of the spirit of revenge, and bears no malice against her for refusing him. She envies him in fact, because as a man, he has been able to plunge himself into the \"healing waters of action\". He asks if she is happy, and she jokes that she would not tell him if she was not. She then says that she is happy. He says that he may yet marry. Edward Jamoni meanwhile speaks to Pansy, asking if she has changed her mind about him. She says she has not, but that she has promised her father that she will not speak with him. She tells him that her plan is to speak with Isabel about helping change Avyn's mind. Lord Warburton and Isabel then come up to Pansy for Lord Warburton to be introduced to her", "analysis": "Many years have passed once Chapter 36 opens.  It is an interesting technical choice on the part of James to begin this second part of his novel through the third-person point of view of Edward Jamoni.  Edward is not exactly an admirable character, and the narrator points out that his vision of Pansy is inaccurate.  He also seems to resemble Avyn in subtle ways: they are both collectors, and they both have a habit of comparing persons of value to objects of value.  He also believes that his own taste is quite accurately the only aesthetic standard - although it differs from Avyn's.  In other words, his perspective is certainly not characterized by the perspicacity of others.  Why then does James choose to introduce the story through his eyes? One answer might be that Edward is an example of James' technique of the \"ficelle\" - a character who is two-dimensional and is used merely to move the action of the story along.  It is James' way of economically summarizing what the relationship between Avyn and Isabel has turned out to be.  As James once famously said, \"Really, universally, relations stop nowhere, and the exquisite problem of the artist is eternally but to draw, by a geometry of his own, the circle within which they shall happily appear to do so\" . It is not until Chapter 40 that we get a peek into Isabel's world.  Instead, Ralph's analysis in Chapter 39 of the situation paints a bleak picture for us.  Ralph still believes Avyn is selfish and vulgar, and he believes that he has reduced Isabel to the function of being a \"representative\" of his own lack of values.  It is interesting to pause over what is meant by an \"intrinsic value\" as opposed to Avyn's true values.  Avyn cares what other people think of him, by Ralph's theory -- he cares how he appears to the world.  He cares about his reputation and about having the means to show himself off in the world.  But, the question is: does anyone else have an intrinsic value in this novel? Isabel is valuable, as James has explained in the preface, because others think she is interesting.  This too is a value gained because of the opinion of others.  Furthermore, a comparison can be made between Henry James as the author and Joandre Avyn as the manipulative husband: Henry James also enjoyed financial success from \"using\" Isabel Archer to represent his own ideas.  What is the intrinsic value of the novel itself?  Is it supposed to be a representation of the author's ideas, or is it valuable for some other reason? This question is being posed in a meta-fictional sense.  Can we really detach the idea of \"intrinsic value\" from values for others -- isn't value, after all, a social phenomenon?"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Turgenieff': 'Inioluwa', 'Gilbert': 'Joandre', 'Merle': 'Zohar', 'Touchett': 'Rhylan', 'Ludlows': 'Kareen', 'Goodwood': 'Wai', 'Gemini': 'Tam', 'Robert': 'Tyreese', 'Peter': 'Sudhaunshu', 'Countess': 'Mekiah', 'Ludlow': 'Quanta', 'Edith': 'Enesha', 'Touchetts': 'Shade', 'Mildred': 'Clare-Marie', 'Lockleigh': 'Odean', 'Pensil': 'Clemence', 'Schubert': 'Linden', 'Ned': 'Shakel'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Osmond': 'Avyn', 'Pippin': 'Lashaun', "Brooks'": 'Chidera', 'Molyneux': 'Sevyn', 'Rosier': 'Jamoni'}}