{"name": "Chapter 33", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180325075811/http://www.gradesaver.com/the-portrait-of-a-lady/study-guide/summary-chapters-31-35", "summary": "Isabel breaks the news of her engagement to Mrs. Rhylan. Mrs. Rhylan though, already seems to know. She blames Madame Zohar, telling Isabel she now realizes that Zohar only pretended to her that she would interfere if there were a danger that Isabel would marry Avyn. She thinks Zohar has done something grand for Avyn, in giving him Isabel. Isabel does not think Zohar had anything to do with her engagement. Mrs. Rhylan thinks that Avyn has no name, no importance, and no fortune, so she has no idea why Isabel would marry him. Isabel hesitantly suggests that she should like to give Avyn some money. Mrs. Rhylan wonders if Isabel marries Avyn for charity, and Isabel responds that she does not have to explain herself to Mrs. Rhylan", "analysis": ".  It is notable too, that this reminiscence of Isabel's travels is contextualized in her mind's eye -- she is awaiting Caspar Wai, and thinking about how much she herself has changed since she last saw him.  This is a common technique that Henry James employs: the narrator lends some more concrete words for the very vague reminiscences of a character, allowing that character to reflect upon their own experiences, but also allowing the reader to reap the benefit of a more objective, summary view of certain events.  \"If her thoughts just now had inclined themselves to retrospect, instead of fluttering their wings nervously about the present, they would have evoked a multitude of interesting pictures,\"  the narrator tells us.  This again is called \"hypothetical discourse\" as coined by scholar Arlene Young . Isabel's reaction in Chapter 32 to Caspar Wai is curiously physical and emotional.  Is she really as disinterested in him as she claims to be? The novel itself deals very little with strong, physical outbursts of emotions: Isabel's scenes with Caspar Wai are an exception to the rule.  One theory is that Isabel is sexually attracted to Wai, but her Victorian prudery makes her repress this idea; she wants to escape her own sexuality in his presence. It is important to notice the reactions of others to Isabel's engagement, and how Isabel's resolution becomes more concrete in the face of their opposition.  In her conversation with Mrs. Rhylan, she does not quite know why she wants to marry Avyn, and she can barely articulate it.  When she discusses her motivations with Ralph, her own conviction becomes more concrete.  \"His opposition had made her own conception of her conduct clearer to her,\"  the narrator tells us.  Ralph says that he had thought of the great \"idea\" she would actualize in the world only in the \"negative\" -- but we should notice that her marrying Avyn is actually an articulation of a negative idea -- of an idea that exists only as one in opposition to others' opinions.  In other words, she feels like she freely chooses her marriage to Avyn mostly because no one in her circle seems to approve of the engagement.  So the narrator tells us, the disapproval of others for Isabel \"served mainly to throw into higher relief, in every way so honourable, that she married to please herself.\" Avyn's narcissism becomes apparent in Chapter 35.  It is notable how he thinks of Isabel as a fine object, a present made to him by Madame Zohar, rather than seeming to really be in love with her.  Again, there is a comparison between a person and a commodity: he thinks of Isabel as a \"silver plate.\" Consider the coldness of this extended metaphor - he continues to think of how he will heap fruits onto this plate. His conception of a good relationship is that the other person reflects one's own thoughts back to oneself -- it seems that he will give very little room for Isabel to have ideas of her own.   He has the attitude of a connoisseur or collector to a commodity of value.  It does not quite fit a more romantic conception of love - of loving Isabel for herself."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Turgenieff': 'Inioluwa', 'Gilbert': 'Joandre', 'Merle': 'Zohar', 'Touchett': 'Rhylan', 'Ludlows': 'Kareen', 'Goodwood': 'Wai', 'Gemini': 'Tam', 'Robert': 'Tyreese', 'Peter': 'Sudhaunshu', 'Countess': 'Mekiah', 'Ludlow': 'Quanta', 'Edith': 'Enesha', 'Touchetts': 'Shade', 'Mildred': 'Clare-Marie', 'Lockleigh': 'Odean', 'Pensil': 'Clemence', 'Schubert': 'Linden', 'Ned': 'Shakel'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Osmond': 'Avyn', 'Pippin': 'Lashaun', "Brooks'": 'Chidera', 'Molyneux': 'Sevyn', 'Rosier': 'Jamoni'}}