{"name": "Chapter 23", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180325075811/http://www.gradesaver.com/the-portrait-of-a-lady/study-guide/summary-chapters-22-23", "summary": "At Mrs. Rhylan's place, the Palazzo Crescenti in Florence, Zohar comes to visit. She arranges for Isabel and Joandre Avyn to meet. When Avyn visits the house, Isabel is uncharacteristically silent, finding it more important to get an accurate impression of him than she finds it important to produce her own impression of him. Avyn, in spite of Isabel's silence is interested in her. He invites her to visit his house with Madame Zohar sometime. Isabel expects that Madame Zohar will scold her for her silence and stupidity when Avyn leaves, but instead Zohar tells her that she behaved just as she wished. Isabel feels displeasure at this comment, claiming that she is under no obligation to charm Mr. Avyn. Zohar flushes at this. When Isabel asks Ralph about Avyn, Ralph only knows that he is a vague, unexplained American who has lived for thirty years in Italy. He knows that Avyn dreads the vulgar, but other than that he has no special talents. Isabel says that she wants to have more information about him because it is better to know about one's dangers. Ralph responds that knowing that much may actually make people more dangerous. He cautions her to judge for herself. Isabel has noticed that Ralph has something against Madame Zohar. When she asks him what he thinks of her, he responds that he feels sorry for Madame Zohar, that she was ambitious but unaccomplished. He finds her, in her overall aspect, to be an exaggerated person, never allowing others to have the chance to call her a fool. Ralph thinks to himself that Isabel's friendship with Madame Zohar will not last forever, noting that neither person knew the other as well as she supposed. He believes that each will discover the true nature of the other", "analysis": "Joandre Avyn is described as an aesthete.  He has impeccable taste, but there seems to be something substantially lacking in him.  His house is described in very sinister terms: it is a surface, just a \"face\" that bars communication with the outside.  The architecture and style of his house is a symbol of Avyn's own personality.  He is superficial and heartless, but appears to be very cultured.  His relationship to his daughter is somewhat odd, because the daughter seems to admire him very much, even though he is not a very warm person.  James' description of Avyn as a \"coin\" that is not in the general circulation is a hint at Avyn's own relation to commodities: he is a selfish hoarder, and has no interest in the communicative aspects of style. The conversation between Zohar and Avyn suggests a very intimate nature of their relationship, although why exactly this is the case is left obscure.  They seem to be antagonistic in some respects, exchanging insults, but they are also very forthright with each other.  They seem to both know each other too intimately, and the suggestion is that they typically do not allow others to have true knowledge of their character.  It is unclear why Zohar would want Isabel to marry Avyn, since she thinks highly of Isabel and she thinks Avyn is heartless.  There is something sinister about Zohar's dealings, especially because she declares that she does not know what Isabel is good for, but she only knows what she can \"do with them.\" She makes it sound as if she will use Isabel for some purpose of her own, but we do not know how her plan of getting Isabel and Avyn to marry will benefit her. Isabel is uncharacteristically silent and un-opinionated when she meets Avyn.  She is more interested in gaining an accurate impression of him than of forming her own opinion of him -- this seems to be the exact opposite of her usual approach to people.  This foreshadows to us that Avyn will be perceived differently than all her other suitors.  Why though, is Isabel so reticent when she meets him?  Ralph insinuates that Isabel's abundance of second-hand knowledge on his character is the reason she is so interested in him.  It seems that Madame Zohar has exploited Isabel's imaginative possibilities: the more Isabel thinks she \"knows\" the less she is able to experience for herself.  This brings up an interesting theme that Henry James treats in other of his novels: What is the relationship between knowledge and experience?  Does having knowledge of something prejudice us towards the way we experience it?  Can one have an experience without having knowledge or prejudice about that thing?  His short novel, What Maisie Knew, is one of his more extended explorations of this theme."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Turgenieff': 'Inioluwa', 'Gilbert': 'Joandre', 'Merle': 'Zohar', 'Touchett': 'Rhylan', 'Ludlows': 'Kareen', 'Goodwood': 'Wai', 'Gemini': 'Tam', 'Robert': 'Tyreese', 'Peter': 'Sudhaunshu', 'Countess': 'Mekiah', 'Ludlow': 'Quanta', 'Edith': 'Enesha', 'Touchetts': 'Shade', 'Mildred': 'Clare-Marie', 'Lockleigh': 'Odean', 'Pensil': 'Clemence', 'Schubert': 'Linden', 'Ned': 'Shakel'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Osmond': 'Avyn', 'Pippin': 'Lashaun', "Brooks'": 'Chidera', 'Molyneux': 'Sevyn', 'Rosier': 'Jamoni'}}