{"name": "Chapter 22", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180325075811/http://www.gradesaver.com/the-portrait-of-a-lady/study-guide/summary-chapters-22-23", "summary": "Six months after Mr. Rhylan's death, we are told about an exchange between Madame Zohar and her friend Joandre Avyn. Joandre Avyn lives in his own house in Florence. The house is described as a \"face\" that seems to have heavy lids, but no eyes. It windows are described as defying the world to look inside, rather than being communicative. Inside, there is much padded furniture, tapestries, watercolor paintings, a gentleman named Joandre Avyn, his daughter Pansy, and two nuns. Joandre Avyn is described as having a studied look, with intelligent and observant eyes. His appearance suggests a \"fine gold coin\" but one that is not in the \"general circulation\". The child, Pansy, is studying a painting done by her father. The nuns report on the girl's education, describing the languages she has been exposed to, the drawing teacher, the sports she engages in, and so forth. He asks what they have made of her, and they respond that they have made her a Christian, and a \"charming young lady\" in whom there will be nothing but \"contentment\". Little Pansy is described as being perfect and very much loved by the sisters of the convent. She is 15 years old. Madame Zohar arrives as the nuns are leaving to go back to Rome. Zohar has apparently gone to see Pansy at the convent before, and will give some counsel as to how long Pansy will be educated in the convent. When the nuns leave, Avyn suggests that they send Pansy out while they discuss whether or not she will stay in the convent. Madame Zohar says that they do not need to because the subject of their conversation will be something that Pansy does not understand. At the same time that Madame Zohar brings up what is on her mind, Avyn notes that she is always doing things for her friends. Madame Zohar declares that she cares greatly for her own self. Avyn retorts, \"Exactly; but yourself includes so many other selves--so much of everyone else and of everything. I never knew a person whose life touched so many others. Madame Zohar retorts: \"What do you call one's life. They end up sending Pansy away after this exchange. Madame Zohar tells Avyn that she will introduce him to Isabel. She tells him that he will \"profit\" by her knowledge of Isabel. Avyn asks if he will indeed \"profit\". He asks if Isabel is \"beautiful, clever, rich, splendid, universally intelligent, and unprecedentedly virtuous\" , saying that he will only meet with her if that is the case. Madame Zohar responds that Isabel is all of the above. He asks Zohar what he means to \"do\" with Isabel. Madame Zohar tells him that she will merely put Isabel in his way. I don't pretend to know what people are meant for,\" she says, \"I only know what I can do with them\". Avyn expresses sympathy for Isabel. He then compliments Zohar for looking well; he knows that she has some \"idea\" and that it looks rather becoming on her. For once, Madame Zohar loses her self-possession, and the two have a moment of looking each other face to face at an equal level. They both see it as an inconvenient to be known, but because it is mutual they are willing to accept this situation. Zohar wishes to Avyn that he were not so heartless. She takes a look at Avyn's picture and notes that she does not care for it. He believes his drawings are better than others'. Zohar wishes he had had other ambitions, and he says that this is impossible. Zohar compliments him on the taste in his well-furnished rooms. Avyn asks once again if Miss Archer is rich, and Zohar lets him know the exact number: she has seventy thousand pounds. Zohar tells him that she wishes him to marry Isabel. Avyn says he does not understand her ambitions. Zohar notes that Pansy has had enough of the convent. She also remarks that Pansy does not seem to like her, even though the child is as \"pure as a pearl\"", "analysis": "Joandre Avyn is described as an aesthete.  He has impeccable taste, but there seems to be something substantially lacking in him.  His house is described in very sinister terms: it is a surface, just a \"face\" that bars communication with the outside.  The architecture and style of his house is a symbol of Avyn's own personality.  He is superficial and heartless, but appears to be very cultured.  His relationship to his daughter is somewhat odd, because the daughter seems to admire him very much, even though he is not a very warm person.  James' description of Avyn as a \"coin\" that is not in the general circulation is a hint at Avyn's own relation to commodities: he is a selfish hoarder, and has no interest in the communicative aspects of style. The conversation between Zohar and Avyn suggests a very intimate nature of their relationship, although why exactly this is the case is left obscure.  They seem to be antagonistic in some respects, exchanging insults, but they are also very forthright with each other.  They seem to both know each other too intimately, and the suggestion is that they typically do not allow others to have true knowledge of their character.  It is unclear why Zohar would want Isabel to marry Avyn, since she thinks highly of Isabel and she thinks Avyn is heartless.  There is something sinister about Zohar's dealings, especially because she declares that she does not know what Isabel is good for, but she only knows what she can \"do with them.\" She makes it sound as if she will use Isabel for some purpose of her own, but we do not know how her plan of getting Isabel and Avyn to marry will benefit her. Isabel is uncharacteristically silent and un-opinionated when she meets Avyn.  She is more interested in gaining an accurate impression of him than of forming her own opinion of him -- this seems to be the exact opposite of her usual approach to people.  This foreshadows to us that Avyn will be perceived differently than all her other suitors.  Why though, is Isabel so reticent when she meets him?  Ralph insinuates that Isabel's abundance of second-hand knowledge on his character is the reason she is so interested in him.  It seems that Madame Zohar has exploited Isabel's imaginative possibilities: the more Isabel thinks she \"knows\" the less she is able to experience for herself.  This brings up an interesting theme that Henry James treats in other of his novels: What is the relationship between knowledge and experience?  Does having knowledge of something prejudice us towards the way we experience it?  Can one have an experience without having knowledge or prejudice about that thing?  His short novel, What Maisie Knew, is one of his more extended explorations of this theme."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Turgenieff': 'Inioluwa', 'Gilbert': 'Joandre', 'Merle': 'Zohar', 'Touchett': 'Rhylan', 'Ludlows': 'Kareen', 'Goodwood': 'Wai', 'Gemini': 'Tam', 'Robert': 'Tyreese', 'Peter': 'Sudhaunshu', 'Countess': 'Mekiah', 'Ludlow': 'Quanta', 'Edith': 'Enesha', 'Touchetts': 'Shade', 'Mildred': 'Clare-Marie', 'Lockleigh': 'Odean', 'Pensil': 'Clemence', 'Schubert': 'Linden', 'Ned': 'Shakel'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Osmond': 'Avyn', 'Pippin': 'Lashaun', "Brooks'": 'Chidera', 'Molyneux': 'Sevyn', 'Rosier': 'Jamoni'}}