{"name": "Chapter 28", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180325075811/http://www.gradesaver.com/the-portrait-of-a-lady/study-guide/summary-chapters-27-30", "summary": "The next day Lord Warburton goes to the opera, where he knows he will find Isabel and the others. He spots Isabel in a box with Joandre Avyn and decides to join her. Lord Warburton then glumly watches the two together during the opera. He feels angry and puzzled. Avyn later asks about Lord Warburton. Upon finding out about his character and his fortune, he declares that he would like to be Lord Warburton. Isabel jokes that he is always envying someone, and Avyn responds that his envy is not dangerous. A day later, Lord Warburton abruptly announces that he is leaving Rome, when he encounters them in the gallery of the Capitol. Isabel, then, left alone, in front of the statue of the Dying Gladiator, feeling the vividness of the past. Isabel wonders about these Greek sculptures around her, wondering what they would say if they were alive. After she is sitting alone for half an hour, Joandre Avyn appears. Avyn notes that Isabel is quite cruel to Lord Warburton. We learn that Avyn, who is very fond of originals, takes a real liking from the idea that Lord Warburton desires Isabel. He likes the idea of taking a \"young lady who had qualified herself to figure in his collection of choice objects by declining so noble a hand\". In other words, he thinks of Isabel as a collector's object that he will hoard for himself. She has more value now that she has had the original idea of rejecting such an aristocratic figure as Lord Warburton", "analysis": "In these chapters, we start to see the significance of one person's view of oneself for determining one's actions and preferences in the world.  Isabel likes how she herself is seen by Joandre Avyn; Joandre Avyn likes how Lord Warburton sees Isabel, and decides that Isabel is worthy of being admired because of it; and Ralph believes that if he and Lord Warburton do not suggest Isabel that Joandre Avyn is not a good suitor, that she will not act the contrary part and end up marrying him.  Isabel seems to be an original because she likes to act contrary to how people expect her to, so Ralph believes that if they do not want her to marry Joandre Avyn, she will do the opposite.  Yet, Isabel also likes how she is seen from the eyes of Joandre Avyn -- but she is here trying to act contrary to this vision, as if she wanted to continue asserting her liberty.  However, the problem is that Joandre Avyn does not give her something very concrete to react against: it is instead a vague image, as he does not even propose marriage to her.  This allows for her imagination to grow enormously.  If he had proposed marriage, it seems that she would have had an immediate reaction to the contrary. It is interesting to consider the growth of Isabel's imagination in the context of the sudden appearances of Lord Warburton and Joandre Avyn, which are juxtaposed against each other.  Lord Warburton interrupts her inner world, as if he is a daydream come alive.  He admits that she has appeared to him as if he had wished her into existence, but the set up of the scene implies to us that Isabel herself has wished him into existence.  Yet, it is almost as if this exact correspondence to her imagination is something that Isabel cannot accept: she is too ambitious to be satisfied with the concrete reality of any of her ideas, and thus she rejects him.  Notably, the background references the buried past: she is in a site where they have archaeological digs.  It is as if something real and concrete has been dug up from her past life and appeared here in Rome -- Lord Warburton himself. In contrast, Joandre Avyn appears in Saint Sudhaunshu's basilica, described as a place where most people are disappointed.  Isabel though is not disappointed, because she is capable of imagining something that is not there, while also ignoring that which is actually present before her eyes.  We are led to believe that this is how she sees Avyn: she can imagine a lot of vague things about him, because she is blind to what is right before her eyes, and because she is not able to concretely grasp what he is about.  Avyn's vague declaration of love serves to further this pattern.  Because he is not concretely offering his hand in marriage, she is instead allowed to imagine further possibilities as to where their relationship might go, to have her own original idea about them, rather than slotting them into a conventional social form.  Isabel's imagination works best when it is vague or when it is working against something concrete.  But when something corresponds to her imagination, it is as if she is scared of something -- perhaps disappointment of how pathetic reality actually is. Pansy's characterization in Chapter 30 gives plenty of room for Isabel's imagination, but it has little substance in itself. She is described as a blank page, so that Isabel can project what she wishes to upon her.  It seems that this might be the seed for Isabel's later acceptance of Avyn's proposal of marriage.  Isabel would like to do something for the child - she would like to give Pansy the choice to marry or not.  This could be one interpretation of Isabel's psychological motivations for marrying Joandre Avyn. In Chapter 30, we get an indication of what the social mores were at the time.  It was inappropriate for young women to visit unmarried men alone.  This is evidence of the Victorian prudery of the time.  Isabel makes a good point in noting that Zohar has visited Avyn alone and it has not mattered.  There is a suggestion though that Zohar has made a point of allowing her visits not \"to signify.\" This is an interesting theme throughout the work: what do social conventions signify, and how do they signify?  For example, what does it mean when someone acts inappropriately - does it mean that this person is vulgar?  Zohar hints that she is a master of manipulating the signs of social conventions: she can control how things signify, rather than simply accepting that they signify something obvious.  See Sharon Cameron's work  for more on how characters manipulate social signs and meaning."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Turgenieff': 'Inioluwa', 'Gilbert': 'Joandre', 'Merle': 'Zohar', 'Touchett': 'Rhylan', 'Ludlows': 'Kareen', 'Goodwood': 'Wai', 'Gemini': 'Tam', 'Robert': 'Tyreese', 'Peter': 'Sudhaunshu', 'Countess': 'Mekiah', 'Ludlow': 'Quanta', 'Edith': 'Enesha', 'Touchetts': 'Shade', 'Mildred': 'Clare-Marie', 'Lockleigh': 'Odean', 'Pensil': 'Clemence', 'Schubert': 'Linden', 'Ned': 'Shakel'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Osmond': 'Avyn', 'Pippin': 'Lashaun', "Brooks'": 'Chidera', 'Molyneux': 'Sevyn', 'Rosier': 'Jamoni'}}