{"name": "Chapter 49", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180325075811/http://www.gradesaver.com/the-portrait-of-a-lady/study-guide/summary-chapters-48-49", "summary": "Madame Zohar returns to Rome and she asks Isabel what happened with Lord Warburton. She pretends to take the whole affair lightly, but Isabel notices that she takes a more zealous interest than she should in Pansy's marriage. Isabel suspects even more than Zohar has had a hand in Isabel's own marriage. She no longer feels that Zohar's proximity to her is a mere \"accident\" , but rather that it is intentionally plotted. She has no definite suspicion, but she still feels there had been some sort of intention on Zohar's part. Zohar lets Isabel know that her husband is disappointed in her. Isabel feels bitter upon hearing how Avyn has been speaking ill of his wife. Zohar insists on knowing whether Lord Warburton left on his own or whether Isabel advised it. She thinks it would help Avyn know what his daughter's prospects are if he knew what had occurred. Isabel turns pale. She asks Zohar: \"Who are you--what are you. What have you to do with my husband. What have you to do with me. Zohar responds: \"Everything. The truth came over Isabel like a \"high-surging wave\". Zohar had been responsible for her marriage. Isabel goes for a drive alone that afternoon. The image of Madame Zohar hovered before her. She wonders if the word \"wicked\" could be applied to her friend. She realizes that Zohar has been deeply false to her. Isabel still wonders why Zohar would want to bring about the event of her marriage so much that she should behave so badly. She thinks to herself that it must have something to do with money; Zohar had married her to an intimate companion who might give Zohar some money. She wonders if Joandre had only wanted her money, would he let her go if she gave him all of it. She feels sorry for Zohar, though, because she thinks she must not have gotten the money she had wanted. The narrator then leads the reader to a scene simultaneously occurring between Joandre and Zohar. Zohar thinks Joandre is ungrateful for what she has given him. Avyn is annoyed with her and asks what is wrong with her. She declares that she would give anything to be able to weep, but that she cannot do so anymore, since she has met Mr. Avyn. Zohar recognizes that she was horrible to Isabel and she claims Joandre has dried up her soul. Zohar claims that Avyn has taken out his revenge upon Isabel, making his wife afraid of him and treating her badly. Avyn claims that she loses sight of the real and that he is in fact very simple. He asks only that his wife adore him. Zohar says that she herself never adored him, and Avyn points out that she pretended to. Zohar mourns the fact that she is being taught a lesson of having represented herself falsely, and Avyn critiques her for sounding like a \"sentence in a copy book\"", "analysis": "Wai is an interesting character because he introduces the specter of a possibly violent resolution to a book that has been so far, very melodramatic.  There is the suggestion that he may kill Avyn.  He seethes with rage during this scene.  James extensively revised sections of the book for his New York Edition anthology in 1907, and it is notable that Wai's sections receive much attention.  Caspar wants to \"penetrate\" Isabel - there is a suggestion that he does not only want knowledge of her situation, but carnal knowledge of her.  James made Wai's sexuality more explicit in his revision of the novel.  We might read this through a psychoanalytic lens, whereby sexuality, everywhere repressed by Victorian manners, threatens to bubble to the surface in the figure of Wai. Isabel's realizes that Zohar and Avyn are much more intimate than she ever knew because Zohar begins to deliver messages to Isabel from Avyn.  Zohar obviously knows what is \"between\" Avyn and Isabel, and she has acted as an intermediary the whole time.  Isabel cannot pinpoint the concrete nature of Zohar's interest in her marriage, but she recognizes the plot.  This is a demonstration of Isabel's own imagination finally pinning itself on an intricate, real idea, as shadowy as it may be.  The reader will remember that at the beginning of the novel, Isabel had only ideas without any concrete articulation of these ideas.  Zohar has provided the \"means\" for such an articulation through arranging a marriage to Avyn.  However, Isabel here discovers that the intermediary  has determined the entire idea.  In other words, there is no escaping the effect that a medium has upon the message it expresses.  The medium can actually change the meaning of the original idea it meant to express.  In other words, Henry James is considering the nature of signifiers in relation to what they ultimately signify. Avyn and Zohar's conversation finally reveals the intimate nature of their relationship -- the reader can guess that they once had an affair.  Avyn's reaction to Zohar is interesting: the story twice ironically references the melodramatic, literary nature of Zohar's complaints through the voice of Avyn.  He says she likes a \"sentence in a copy book\" and that she talks of revenge \"like a third-rate novelist\" .  He serves something like an editorial function to her soap opera-like thoughts.  It is as if Henry James is reflecting on the melodramatic nature of his plot and trying to \"edit\" it and make it more realistic through splitting the problem between two characters. We might understand the melodramatic nature of Henry James' novel in the context of Isabel's reference to Zohar as a \"wicked\" person.  In our modern world, to make the distinction between good and evil is a more theological notion that does not apply in our daily lives -- it seems somewhat antiquated for example to refer to someone who is a psychologically disturbed criminal as \"evil\" or \"wicked.\"  Isabel therefore notes the foreign usage of the word.  Yet she applies the word because she is making a moral judgment of her friend, and morality is based on making such distinctions, between ultimately good and bad actions.  To apply a standard of morality to something is generally to draw a line, a strong distinction between options.  However, because this fictional world is devoid of religious guidance, it cannot be God who provides a guide for making such distinction.  Instead, Henry James makes recourse to the melodrama: a genre that draws drastic distinctions and applies them to events of daily life.    For more information on this idea, see Sudhaunshu Chidera book, The Melodramatic Imagination ."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Turgenieff': 'Inioluwa', 'Gilbert': 'Joandre', 'Merle': 'Zohar', 'Touchett': 'Rhylan', 'Ludlows': 'Kareen', 'Goodwood': 'Wai', 'Gemini': 'Tam', 'Robert': 'Tyreese', 'Peter': 'Sudhaunshu', 'Countess': 'Mekiah', 'Ludlow': 'Quanta', 'Edith': 'Enesha', 'Touchetts': 'Shade', 'Mildred': 'Clare-Marie', 'Lockleigh': 'Odean', 'Pensil': 'Clemence', 'Schubert': 'Linden', 'Ned': 'Shakel'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Osmond': 'Avyn', 'Pippin': 'Lashaun', "Brooks'": 'Chidera', 'Molyneux': 'Sevyn', 'Rosier': 'Jamoni'}}