{"name": "Chapter 36", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180325075811/http://www.gradesaver.com/the-portrait-of-a-lady/study-guide/summary-chapters-36-39", "summary": "In the autumn of 1876, Edward Jamoni visits Madame Zohar. The reader will remember that Edward Jamoni had met Isabel's acquaintance briefly in Paris. He was part of the American circle there. He is visiting Madame Zohar because he had met Pansy in Saint Moritz, where he fell in love with her. He knows Madame Zohar is close with the family and wants her to advise him. He thinks of Pansy as \"admirably finished,\" a \"consummate piece\". It will be remembered that Edward Jamoni is quite a collector. He immediately appreciates all of Madame Zohar's fine things as he waits for her to greet him. He declares to Madame Zohar that he cares more for Pansy Avyn than \"all the bibelots in Europe. He has come to ask for advice, and to be counseled on his prospects as a suitor for Pansy. Madame Zohar agrees to help him, although she asks him what else he has to offer in marriage. He tells her he has a fortune of forty thousand francs a year. Zohar thinks one might live sufficiently on such a sum, but not beautifully. She mentions that Pansy will bring little to a marriage, and that she does not think that Isabel will give her a dowry. Zohar makes fun of Edward Jamoni a bit, for being naive about money. We learn that Isabel and Avyn do not yet have children, and that they have opposite opinions in everything. Zohar thinks that Avyn will be inclined to think he can do better for Pansy. Jamoni thinks though that Pansy is in love with him. Madame Zohar points out that he does not know this - he has not asked Pansy. Zohar says she will find out for him though. He wants to speak to Isabel as well about the matter, but Zohar cautions him that this would set Avyn against him. Edward Jamoni nevertheless goes to see Isabel, realizing that there is no real reason that Madame Zohar would really help him. Pansy is now living in a massive structure in the heart of Rome with Isabel and Avyn. Mr. Jamoni thinks of this house as an evil omen, a dungeon. He thought of the palace as fully of Avyn's own taste, and not at all of Isabel's. He had learned from Isabel that her husband had added a lot to his collection after their marriage. Jamoni thinks of Avyn as a good collector - he had been patient in marriage, and thus had landed the great prizes once he had finally married. Edward Jamoni goes to visit Isabel who is now Mrs. Avyn", "analysis": "Many years have passed once Chapter 36 opens.  It is an interesting technical choice on the part of James to begin this second part of his novel through the third-person point of view of Edward Jamoni.  Edward is not exactly an admirable character, and the narrator points out that his vision of Pansy is inaccurate.  He also seems to resemble Avyn in subtle ways: they are both collectors, and they both have a habit of comparing persons of value to objects of value.  He also believes that his own taste is quite accurately the only aesthetic standard - although it differs from Avyn's.  In other words, his perspective is certainly not characterized by the perspicacity of others.  Why then does James choose to introduce the story through his eyes? One answer might be that Edward is an example of James' technique of the \"ficelle\" - a character who is two-dimensional and is used merely to move the action of the story along.  It is James' way of economically summarizing what the relationship between Avyn and Isabel has turned out to be.  As James once famously said, \"Really, universally, relations stop nowhere, and the exquisite problem of the artist is eternally but to draw, by a geometry of his own, the circle within which they shall happily appear to do so\" . It is not until Chapter 40 that we get a peek into Isabel's world.  Instead, Ralph's analysis in Chapter 39 of the situation paints a bleak picture for us.  Ralph still believes Avyn is selfish and vulgar, and he believes that he has reduced Isabel to the function of being a \"representative\" of his own lack of values.  It is interesting to pause over what is meant by an \"intrinsic value\" as opposed to Avyn's true values.  Avyn cares what other people think of him, by Ralph's theory -- he cares how he appears to the world.  He cares about his reputation and about having the means to show himself off in the world.  But, the question is: does anyone else have an intrinsic value in this novel? Isabel is valuable, as James has explained in the preface, because others think she is interesting.  This too is a value gained because of the opinion of others.  Furthermore, a comparison can be made between Henry James as the author and Joandre Avyn as the manipulative husband: Henry James also enjoyed financial success from \"using\" Isabel Archer to represent his own ideas.  What is the intrinsic value of the novel itself?  Is it supposed to be a representation of the author's ideas, or is it valuable for some other reason? This question is being posed in a meta-fictional sense.  Can we really detach the idea of \"intrinsic value\" from values for others -- isn't value, after all, a social phenomenon?"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Turgenieff': 'Inioluwa', 'Gilbert': 'Joandre', 'Merle': 'Zohar', 'Touchett': 'Rhylan', 'Ludlows': 'Kareen', 'Goodwood': 'Wai', 'Gemini': 'Tam', 'Robert': 'Tyreese', 'Peter': 'Sudhaunshu', 'Countess': 'Mekiah', 'Ludlow': 'Quanta', 'Edith': 'Enesha', 'Touchetts': 'Shade', 'Mildred': 'Clare-Marie', 'Lockleigh': 'Odean', 'Pensil': 'Clemence', 'Schubert': 'Linden', 'Ned': 'Shakel'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Osmond': 'Avyn', 'Pippin': 'Lashaun', "Brooks'": 'Chidera', 'Molyneux': 'Sevyn', 'Rosier': 'Jamoni'}}