{"name": "Chapter 26", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180325075811/http://www.gradesaver.com/the-portrait-of-a-lady/study-guide/summary-chapters-24-26", "summary": "Joandre Avyn goes to visit Isabel five times at Palazzo Crescentini, where she and her aunt are staying. Mrs. Rhylan notices the anomaly: while Avyn has visited her before, he has never done so quite so often. Ralph enjoys Avyn's company, and he understands Avyn's attraction to Isabel. They both guess at his true motivation. They both though do not believe Isabel would want to marry him. Mrs. Rhylan believes she will not marry Avyn because he does not correspond with any conception of success that she has. Ralph believes Isabel will turn him down, because she is \"studying human nature\" and busy retaining her liberty. Mrs. Rhylan wants to tell Isabel that Avyn will probably propose marriage, and Madame Zohar prevents her, claiming that she will speak to Avyn about the matter. Madame Zohar tells Mrs. Rhylan not to inflame Isabel's imagination. Mrs. Rhylan retorts that she never did such a thing in her whole life. Meanwhile, Isabel has no idea that others are discussing her relationship to Avyn. She merely has a picture in her mind of Avyn -- described as a picture without \"flourishes\" a low tone, and an atmosphere of summer twilight. Mekiah Tam visits the house as well. She is not well regarded by others, as apparently some of her improprieties have managed to circulate as gossip around town. Madame Zohar defends Mekiah Tam against Mrs. Rhylan's annoyance. Zohar explains to Isabel that one need only observe the condition of not believing a single thing Mekiah Tam said and then she was quite tolerable. Of course, according to Madame Zohar's description of Mekiah Tam, she is not well liked by her brother, because Avyn likes women who find the truth sacred. Mr. Bantling and Henrietta also pay a visit to Isabel. They decide to go to Rome together, as Henrietta Stackpole is now devoting herself to studying the outer aspects of life in Continental Europe. When Isabel informs Avyn of her intentions , he says he would like to see it with her, although he declines her invitation to do so in a group with others. He claims he cannot leave Pansy. Madame Zohar and Avyn have a conversation at Mekiah Tam's, in private. Madame Zohar counsels him to go to Rome. Avyn thinks it sounds like a lot of work and Madame Zohar responds that he is ungrateful. Avyn says that Isabel is not disagreeable, but she has one fault. She has too many ideas\". He is glad, at the very least, that she has bad ideas, since they will have to be sacrificed", "analysis": "In Chapter 24, Isabel gets an impression of Avyn's home.  Note that she does not see it as so ominous an object as the narrator has previously described the villa.  Rather than seeing it as a house with windows that do not allow communication with the world , Isabel's perspective allows the narrator to briefly remark upon the \"grave\" air of the place, as if one would \"need an act of energy to get out\" of it once inside .  The narrator counterbalances this observation with the remark that Isabel is only thinking about \"advancing\" though, and her thoughts are not nearly so foreboding.  In the previous conversation between Madame Zohar and Avyn, the setting has offered a reflection of the atmosphere: something sinister is going on between Madame Zohar and Avyn, in this very secluded house.  In this scene however, the signs are ignored, or poorly read.  Notably Isabel herself realizes that she does not know how to read the people and the objects in the house, as the occasion \"signified more than lay on the surface\" for her .  In other words, the narrator is setting up a contrast between a more objective interpretation of the house and Isabel's more interested, ambitious reading of the house.  She wants to see more than lays beyond the surface, she wants to read into the signs, but she believes it is written in a cryptic language.  The narrator's previous description of the house signifies that there is not much more than a superficial shell in this house: that signs do not point to a deeper meaning to be interpreted, but rather everything points to keeping the interpreter mystified through its lack of depth. This kind of deception is a reference to the larger deception that aesthetic objects play on people.  Aesthetics is the analysis of art; it refers to the philosophical question of why we find something beautiful.  So, for example, one can look at a beautiful artistic object and believe that there must be some deeper meaning or some higher \"value\" that is being referred to in it.  One might believe it is a moral value, or an intellectual value, to which the various signs in a painting refer.  Or, we could apply the same question to a novel: why do we read? What makes a book worthy of being read? Does it make us more moral people when we read? Or do we learn some higher truth about life?  We believe that the signs of fiction might point us in a particular direction in life, give us some guidance.  However, by treating aesthetics in the context of a novel, James is hinting at the idea that art is all an illusion.  There is a trick being played: it looks like all the signs refer to some deeper meaning, but in fact, they are creating the illusion of depth by means of blocking the reader from pinning a definite interpretation upon them.  That is what is happening to Isabel here.  She is unable to figure out what values Avyn is referring to, what standards he uses to judge.  But she is still interested because she believes there is a value.  But if Avyn is revealed to be a bad person with no morality and no higher values, then it will show that she has created the illusion of value from her own inability to interpret the signs.  She has tricked herself into believing there is depth, when there is only superficiality. Another theme that is relevant is the relationship between commodities and people.  It is notable that many of Henry James' descriptions of characters end up being a comparison between a person and inanimate objects.  Here, it seems that Avyn, who has so many nice objects and allows their value to all appreciate here in his own home as if they were collector's items, is comparing a woman to a commodity: \"A woman's natural mission is to be where she's most appreciated,\" he says . This is an eerie description of moral value, with an indication that he is actually referring to financial value.  Similarly, Isabel begins to see him as an aesthetic object: a painting with a low-tone. In Chapter 25, we get a sense of what the true motivations of the characters are, beneath their appearances.  There is the mention of money and marriage again: Isabel has seventy thousand pounds.  But it is not quite clear why Madame Zohar would be interested in giving Avyn Isabel's fortune through marriage.  What does she have to gain from making this match?  As a first time reader, it would be easy to overlook this chapter as the eccentric worries of Mekiah Tam, who has been portrayed as a busybody.  This foreshadows the true nature of Avyn."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Turgenieff': 'Inioluwa', 'Gilbert': 'Joandre', 'Merle': 'Zohar', 'Touchett': 'Rhylan', 'Ludlows': 'Kareen', 'Goodwood': 'Wai', 'Gemini': 'Tam', 'Robert': 'Tyreese', 'Peter': 'Sudhaunshu', 'Countess': 'Mekiah', 'Ludlow': 'Quanta', 'Edith': 'Enesha', 'Touchetts': 'Shade', 'Mildred': 'Clare-Marie', 'Lockleigh': 'Odean', 'Pensil': 'Clemence', 'Schubert': 'Linden', 'Ned': 'Shakel'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Osmond': 'Avyn', 'Pippin': 'Lashaun', "Brooks'": 'Chidera', 'Molyneux': 'Sevyn', 'Rosier': 'Jamoni'}}