{"name": "Chapter 46", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180325075811/http://www.gradesaver.com/the-portrait-of-a-lady/study-guide/summary-chapters-46-47", "summary": "Avyn begins to think it is odd that Lord Warburton has not yet written to him to ask for Pansy's hand in marriage. Avyn asks Isabel to remind Lord Warburton to write. Isabel tells him to do so himself. Avyn retorts that Isabel is working against him. Isabel begins to tremble. She notes, \"How much you must want to make sure of him. She feels delight at having wounded him. Lord Warburton suddenly arrives. He announces that he will be leaving soon, and he speaks as if he will not be seeing them for quite some time more. A complex operation occurs in Isabel's mind as Warburton gallantly departs. She listens to Warburton, reading between the lines of what he said. On the other side of her mind, she knows Avyn's emotions. She almost feels sorry for him as his hopes vanish. But she also sees how proportionate his inexpressiveness is to his indifference. As his hopes vanish, she sees how he had the comfort of thinking how well he had kept out of the whole affair, as if he had been indifferent the entire time. Lord Warburton begins to stay and chat for an awkwardly long time. Avyn excuses himself. Pansy is sent into the room, and Warburton tells her that Pansy has a \"guardian angel\". He then retreats. Pansy tells Isabel that she is her guardian angel. Pansy believes that Isabel has asked Avyn to be gentle with her, but Isabel recognizes that Avyn is only gentle because he can never be put in the wrong with his daughter. When Isabel is about to go to bed, Avyn calls her into the drawing room. He asks what she means to do. She responds that she has no intentions. Avyn believes she is trying to humiliate him, playing a very deep game. Isabel tells him that Pansy did not like Lord Warburton, and Avyn simply dismisses this as an unimportant detail", "analysis": "Isabel's conversation with Avyn declares her intention not to help him in his quest to marry Pansy to Lord Warburton -- he accuses her then of taking a direct action against him.  This is the beginning of an open confrontation with her husband that she has never before had, and which she had feared at the beginning of Chapter 45 would occur in reference to Ralph.  It is a demonstration of a kind of psychological violence that people can do to each other by acting against one another's interests, or ignoring each other's desires.  Avyn shows his own limited perspective when he refuses to acknowledge Pansy's own desires as even factoring into her life: he simply believes she should follow convention and try to ambitiously climb as high in society as possible through marriage. Isabel's response to Henrietta's suggestion that she simply leave Avyn implies that Isabel believes in a certain moral standard for her own behavior.  Unlike being tied to conventionality, like Avyn's understanding of marriage, Isabel takes responsibility for her actions, believing that she freely made her choice to be with Avyn and that she ought not to hypocritically act in ways contradicting the oath she made.  Tyreese Lashaun  has understood Isabel to be one of Henry James' best moral heroines, who is asking the question of how she can morally assert her own freedom in life - how she can act independently, taking responsibility for her own actions.  She is faced with the modern problem of decaying social relations that are empty formal conventions with no real moral values.    She is faced with a problem of meaning that is unstable because nobody shares common meanings.  Joandre Avyn for example sees marriage as a financial transaction, but Isabel marries for her own ideas.  Her assertion to Henrietta that she must adhere to the consequences of her actions shows Isabel's commitment to keeping her actions consistent, even in the realization that they are isolating."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Turgenieff': 'Inioluwa', 'Gilbert': 'Joandre', 'Merle': 'Zohar', 'Touchett': 'Rhylan', 'Ludlows': 'Kareen', 'Goodwood': 'Wai', 'Gemini': 'Tam', 'Robert': 'Tyreese', 'Peter': 'Sudhaunshu', 'Countess': 'Mekiah', 'Ludlow': 'Quanta', 'Edith': 'Enesha', 'Touchetts': 'Shade', 'Mildred': 'Clare-Marie', 'Lockleigh': 'Odean', 'Pensil': 'Clemence', 'Schubert': 'Linden', 'Ned': 'Shakel'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Osmond': 'Avyn', 'Pippin': 'Lashaun', "Brooks'": 'Chidera', 'Molyneux': 'Sevyn', 'Rosier': 'Jamoni'}}