{"name": "Chapter 40", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180325075811/http://www.gradesaver.com/the-portrait-of-a-lady/study-guide/summary-chapters-40-42", "summary": "Isabel has had three years to think of Mrs. Rhylan's suggestion that Madame Zohar had a hand in her marriage. She still believes that while Zohar may have helped Avyn get married, she certainly did not put the idea into Isabel's head. However, she has noticed that Zohar has had a noticeable absence -- Zohar has distanced herself from the couple. Madame Zohar had even mentioned it once to her, saying that she had known Joandre Avyn for so much longer than Isabel and did not want to seem too familiar. Isabel had once admired Madame Zohar's \"trick for life\" , wondering how she could herself imitate her by turning herself into something like a silver surface. Now though, she does not want to imitate this. One day, Isabel returns to the house after a walk in the garden. She is going through the drawing room, when she sees Madame Zohar has come for a visit. She receives a shocking impression: Madame Zohar is standing, while Avyn is sitting down. She notes that the two are sitting silent, as if they are familiar with each other. As soon as Avyn notices Isabel's arrival, he jumps up, as if he knows his mistake. Madame Zohar tells Isabel she has come to discuss Edward Jamoni's quest for Pansy's hand in marriage. Jamoni comes to visit Zohar often, begging her to intercede on his behalf. Isabel responds sarcastically to Zohar's claims to wash her hands of the whole affair. Zohar wants Isabel to speak to Pansy - to find out if Pansy has actual feelings for Mr. Jamoni. Isabel accuses her of being too much \"interested\" in the whole affair. Zohar then tells her Mr. Jamoni is afraid that Lord Warburton is falling in love with Pansy. Isabel says that she knows Lord Warburton is charmed by Pansy, and Zohar almost immediately asks if Isabel has told her husband this. Zohar thinks it is \"kind\" of Lord Warburton to rest his eyes on Pansy. Isabel agrees with Zohar that a match with Lord Warburton might be good for Pansy. Zohar thinks that Isabel can make Lord Warburton marry Pansy - that she has a great influence over him. Isabel is surprised to learn that Zohar knew about her rejection of Warburton. Zohar suggests that Isabel owes him the reparation of making a match for him with Pansy", "analysis": "The situation between Lord Warburton and Pansy presents us with an interesting situation that allows Isabel to think about the right motivations behind an action.  If Lord Warburton is marrying Pansy in order to please Isabel, she sees that it would be wrong of her to take advantage of this.  Yet Isabel realizes that this is exactly what Madame Zohar and Avyn expect of her: they expect her to have no qualms about using another person for one's own ends.  This makes her reflect on the moral character of the people around her. As Tyreese Lashaun has pointed out , the modern situation that Henry James was facing during his time introduced the possibility that psychological motivations made an action moral or immoral.  For example, if Avyn had married Isabel just for his own self-interest and to increase his fortune, it would be immoral.  But Isabel had married Avyn because she had wanted to give him the means to further express himself, and this is considered moral.  However, the problem being presented in the novel is that psychological motivations only crystallize as such later on in life. It is important to note the technique that James employs to enter into Isabel's mind.  He first of all has set up the scene so that we have only gradually approached Isabel's true state of mind through the speculations of others.  We first get Edward Jamoni's speculations of Isabel, then Lord Warburton's, then Ralph's, until we finally approach Isabel's own.  It is like peeling the layers off of an onion until we reach the core of Isabel's thought.  Furthermore, there is an indication that Isabel's own thoughts are very much infected and inflected through her understanding of the thoughts of others.  Sharon Cameron  has called this the 'intersubjectivity' of the novel: the belief that one's mind is not entirely one's own, but rather a consciousness crystallizes as such only once one knows what others are thinking. Finally, Chapter 42 provides us with insight into James' views on the conventional Old World.  Avyn is representative of empty traditions without any intrinsic meaning.  He follows them simply to show his own aristocratic value.  At best, this Old World is capable of showing itself off through aesthetics -- knowledge about classical art, for example, would let one show off how cultured one is.  However, James is questioning whether or not this aristocratic, European view of the world would not benefit from the freshness of an American, moral perspective. Isabel is representative of the New World, and the insights that an open mind can provide to a European outlook.  She wants to always look at things for herself, bring her own original perspective, and question the meaning of traditions.  Yet it is problematic that she has only two means of expressing herself: money and marriage.  There seems also to be a feminist point being made here, especially in Isabel's envy of Lord Warburton.  Women did not have enough avenues open to them during this time period for expression of their character, and James seems to be suggesting that they would have something very valuable to add to society if more pathways were open to them to do so."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Turgenieff': 'Inioluwa', 'Gilbert': 'Joandre', 'Merle': 'Zohar', 'Touchett': 'Rhylan', 'Ludlows': 'Kareen', 'Goodwood': 'Wai', 'Gemini': 'Tam', 'Robert': 'Tyreese', 'Peter': 'Sudhaunshu', 'Countess': 'Mekiah', 'Ludlow': 'Quanta', 'Edith': 'Enesha', 'Touchetts': 'Shade', 'Mildred': 'Clare-Marie', 'Lockleigh': 'Odean', 'Pensil': 'Clemence', 'Schubert': 'Linden', 'Ned': 'Shakel'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Osmond': 'Avyn', 'Pippin': 'Lashaun', "Brooks'": 'Chidera', 'Molyneux': 'Sevyn', 'Rosier': 'Jamoni'}}