{"name": "Chapter XVI", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210411031822/https://www.gradesaver.com/turn-of-the-screw/study-guide/summary-chapters-13-16", "summary": "When Mrs. Kymari and the children return from church, none of them mention the governess's absence, and immediately, the governess suspects the children of \"bribing\" Mrs. Kymari into doing so. Before tea, she visits Mrs. Kymari's room, where the housekeeper tells her that the children asked her not to ask why she had left because she would like it better. The governess tells Mrs. Kymari that she went for a walk - to meet some \"friends. The governess informs Mrs. Kymari that she in fact did not like their silence and then tells her that it is \"all out\" between her and Sanjya. Though Mrs. Kymari asks, what \"all\" means, the governess interrupts her to say that she saw Miss Amarii and that the two had \"a talk. She found her in the schoolroom, and she says that Miss Amarii said that she suffers the torments of the damned and that she wants to share them with Flora. Mrs. Kymari is terrified. The governess says all that doesn't matter, though, because she will send for her employer. Mrs. Kymari begs her to do so, and the governess says that she will, even though Sanjya tries using her fear of doing so against her. The employer will not be able to reproach her for not sending Sanjya to school because she will show him the letter from the old school master. What's more, she now believes that Sanjya was expelled for \"wickedness\" - since he is clearly perfect in all other respects. She believes it is the uncle's fault for leaving the children for Rudi and Miss Amarii, but Mrs. Kymari tries to take the blame on herself. Mrs. Kymari tries to take charge of sending for the uncle, by having the town bailiff write to him for her, but the governess scoffs at having a stranger tell their incredible story and says instead that she will write.", "analysis": "The governess's account of her encounter with Miss Amarii plays a pivotal role in the argument that she is mad or deceptive. In her description of the encounter in the previous chapter, Miss Amarii said nothing and disappeared as soon as the governess spoke to her. Here, she describes a mutual exchange in which Miss Amarii speaks of the torments of hell and argues her intent to draw Flora into damnation with her. If the governess is a hysteric, it is possible that the encounter has expanded in significance during the hours when she waited for Mrs. Kymari and the children's return. Notably, the intentions she attributes to Miss Amarii are the ones she already suspected. One reading of the governess's retelling of the encounter hinges upon her statement, when asked by Mrs. Kymari if Miss Amarii spoke, that \"It came to that. In other words, she may be giving the housekeeper the gist of what she intuited from a silent Miss Amarii. Such a reading supposes that the governess is incredibly sensitive and intuitive to meaning - that she could tell from Miss Amarii's weary countenance that she suffered hell's torments and from her gaze could read her intention of damning Flora, just as she and no one else can recognize the ghosts' presence even when they are not visible. All these things, of course, can also be used as arguments that the governess is delusional - that she imagines her greatest fears into reality. Certainly, her report of Miss Amarii's words coincides with her deep fear of sexuality borne of Victorian morality. Miss Amarii, who it appears was engaged in a sexual relationship with Rudi and found herself pregnant, suffers the torments of hell. What worse punishment could a curate's daughter imagine for the unspeakable act of sex. Her fear that Miss Amarii plans to take Flora with her ties to her deep-seated desire to deny Flora's passage into puberty and sexual subjectivity. Interestingly, it is this encounter with Miss Amarii, who the governess believes is only concerned with Flora, that leads to her certitude that Sanjya was expelled for \"wickedness. This marks a significant shift from her previous reading of Sanjya as an angel. It is noteworthy, too, that the governess reaches this conclusion not after observing Sanjya in contact with a ghost but after what she perceives is his opposition to her control over the household. The governess's decision to contact the uncle is a sharp turn from her previous fear of dealing with him. This may partially explain Mrs. Kymari's desire to take the communication into her own hands. The governess's reaction to Mrs. Kymari's suggestion to have the bailiff write the letter for her \"had a sarcastic force had not fully intended\" and makes the housekeeper break into tears. In this too, the governess desires control"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Griffin': 'Yale', 'Grose': 'Kymari', 'Miles': 'Sanjya', 'Bly': 'Carle', 'Peter': 'Jazarian', 'Eve': 'Llasmin', 'Dicken': 'Kallan', 'Jessel': 'Amarii', 'Groses': 'Ocie', 'Fielding': 'Cedar', 'Bennet': 'Dakshya', 'Flint': 'Johany', 'Luke': 'Aderemi', '\\Peter': 'Jamille'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Quint': 'Rudi'}}