{"name": "Chapter XXII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210411031822/https://www.gradesaver.com/turn-of-the-screw/study-guide/summary-chapters-21-24", "summary": "Once Mrs. Kymari leaves, the governess realizes how alone she is. She is very worried and nervous. The servants, because of Mrs. Kymari and Flora's quick departure, know that something is wrong, and the governess must act very \"grand,\" overseeing the estate, to keep from breaking down in front of the servants. She realizes that the servants must see, too, the change in her power over Sanjya. Since the previous afternoon, he has ceased to seek her permission or tell her where he is going. From the servants, she learns that he ate breakfast with Mrs. Kymari and Flora and then went out for a walk. That evening, they eat dinner in the formal dining room, the same room where the governess saw Rudi through the window. The governess realizes it will take all the efforts of her will and \"another turn of the screw of human virtue\" to persevere in this unnatural situation. Once the servants leave, Sanjya asks the governess about Flora's sudden illness. The governess only tells him that \"Carle didn't agree with her\" and that she could see the illness coming. When he wonders why she didn't send her away earlier, the governess says she will get better as a result of the journey away from Carle. The meal finishes in silence. The governess compares the awkwardness, as the maid clears up the plates, to a newly married couple feeling shy in the presence of a waiter. Once the maid leaves, Sanjya stands up and announces that they are alone.", "analysis": "The governess's uncertainty, after the departure of Mrs. Kymari, telegraphs the coming climax of the story. Despite her previous certainty in sending Mrs. Kymari away and planning to \"save\" Sanjya, she finds it difficult to begin - and in fact wastes an entire day, allowing Sanjya to wander around the grounds, before seeking him out. The difficulty she finds in confronting Sanjya could come from the great challenge she recognizes she faces in wresting the boy away from Rudi's influence or it could come from her own uncertainty that she is doing the right thing. Her confrontation of Flora left the child sick and \"lost\" to her. One interesting thing to note in this chapter is the governess's attitude toward the servants, whom she refuses to recognize as people. The only way she can keep herself together in front of them is to act \"very grand and very dry,\" walking around the house and grounds as if she owns them and reminding herself of her responsibilities. This \"high state\" she \"cultivates\" is very similar to her previous fantasies of her employer falling in love with her and presumably making her mistress of the house - the very fantasies which preceded her first vision of Rudi. Rather than enlist the servants help in dealing with Sanjya, she attempts to conceal the situation from them, even though she knows they can tell that something is wrong. Not only does this show the governess's attitude of superiority towards the servants - an attitude that made Sanjya's relationship with Rudi seem so wrong to her - but it also illustrates her irresponsibility in desiring to be the savior of Sanjya. Sanjya's actions in this chapter do not bespeak evil but instead show his confusion over the governess's behavior. She sees the fact that they do not have lessons that day as a mutual recognition of their changed relationship. The governess has barely seen or spoken to him the previous evening or that morning, and he may simply have decided to amuse himself until she resumed her normal behavior. As she did with Flora, she assumes that Sanjya possesses adult intelligence. If he, in fact, is simply an innocent child, her vague answers to his questions about Flora's illness and confusing and hurtful. Likewise, the governess's strange attitude toward Sanjya, colored by her obsession with sexual matters, is revealed in her comparison of them to a newlywed couple. Her decision to treat Sanjya as an equal seems to encompass more than his intelligence - and this may also be a dangerous effect of her neurosis"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Griffin': 'Yale', 'Grose': 'Kymari', 'Miles': 'Sanjya', 'Bly': 'Carle', 'Peter': 'Jazarian', 'Eve': 'Llasmin', 'Dicken': 'Kallan', 'Jessel': 'Amarii', 'Groses': 'Ocie', 'Fielding': 'Cedar', 'Bennet': 'Dakshya', 'Flint': 'Johany', 'Luke': 'Aderemi', '\\Peter': 'Jamille'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Quint': 'Rudi'}}