{"name": "Chapter XX", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210411031822/https://www.gradesaver.com/turn-of-the-screw/study-guide/summary-chapters-17-20", "summary": "Flora looks shocked at the governess's words. Mrs. Kymari suddenly gives a cry, and the governess turns to see Miss Amarii standing on the opposite bank of the lake. She feels a thrill to know that she finally has proof. She points across the lake, and Mrs. Kymari looks there, but Flora's eyes remain fixed on the governess in an expression of accusation. The governess is certain Flora can also see Miss Amarii, and she sees this cold calm with which the child looks at her as proof of her evilness. She shouts at the child that Miss Amarii is there and she knows it. Mrs. Kymari, though, shocks her when she asks where she sees anything. The governess tries to point Miss Amarii out, describing her and yelling at the woman to look, but Mrs. Kymari cannot see her. The governess is shocked and terrified. Mrs. Kymari turns to Flora, reassuring the child that there is no one there and that Miss Amarii is dead and buried, and turns to take Flora home. Flora now appears ugly to the governess, and she screams that she doesn't see anyone there and that she never has - saying also that she doesn't like the governess and crying to Mrs. Kymari to take her away from the governess. The governess is certain that these words are controlled by someone else, and she finally says she's lost Flora, telling Mrs. Kymari to take the child and go. The governess has no memory of what happened next but finds herself fifteen minutes later lying on the ground, where she must have thrown herself crying. She gets up and goes to the house, where she does not see Flora or Mrs. Kymari that night. Flora's things have all been taken out of her room. She sits in the schoolroom, taking her tea, and does not even bother to ask the servants where Sanjya is. When he finally comes in and sits down at eight o'clock, they say nothing to each other.", "analysis": "Here is what many find irrefutable proof that the governess is indeed mad. Mrs. Kymari does not see the ghost of Miss Amarii, and Flora herself professes not to see her. The governess therefore has condemned herself with her own words. Believing Mrs. Kymari at first able to see Miss Amarii, she says, \"She was there, so I was justified. She was there, So I was neither cruel nor mad. She is not, in fact, there, and the governess is both cruel and mad. The governess's actions towards Flora reach a dangerous point here. She describes the child she once considered an angel and beautiful as hard and ugly. She calls the child \"you little unhappy thing. If Miss Amarii is simply a hallucination, there is little wonder that Flora asks as she does. The accusatory look she levies at the governess is not cold if there is nothing else there for her to see; it is expected that she would stare at the governess, looking for an explanation of her outburst. Similarly, her harsh words at the end, asking Mrs. Kymari to take her away, are an appropriate response for a child whose governess has just called her mean names, accused her of things she has not done, and demanded she see something that is not there. The sexual hysteria at the root of the governess's madness is revealed in her descriptions of Flora at the lake. Unable to accept Flora's approach to puberty and eventually to adult sexuality, she can only equate goodness with childhood innocence and badness with adult depravity. Thus, Flora becomes, in the governess's eyes, \"an old, old woman. Her \"incomparable childish beauty had suddenly failedshe was literally, she was hideously hard; she had turned common and almost ugly. The class component of this description is likewise unmistakable. The governess perceives the child to be choosing Miss Amarii - a woman who sunk below her station in her affair with a servant - and thus denigrates the child in terms such as \"a vulgarly pert little girl in the street. These are the words of a scorned woman. Some critics argue that James portrays Flora, in her outburst against the governess, as possessed. The author would have been aware of spirit possession, a popular belief in the nineteenth century. The governess says that Flora had gotten her words \"from an outside source,\" but we must remember that these particular words condemn the governess. If she believes they are Flora's words, she would have also to accept that she has been hurtful to Flora and the child is knowingly rejecting her. The governess's rejection of the child - saying \"I've done my best, but I've lost you. Good-bye. as Mrs. Kymari carries her away likewise protect her from the inevitable realization that she has failed as Flora's governess and protector. In fact, if we compare the governess's actions and Mrs. Kymari's actions - ghosts or not - in this chapter, it is clear that Mrs. Kymari's behavior towards Flora is much more healthy than that of the very governess who has sworn she would die protecting the child. Mrs. Kymari comforts the child, reassures her, and takes her home to bed. The governess screams at her, makes her cry, and disavows her. The governess has clearly failed to save Flora - whether from Miss Amarii or herself"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Griffin': 'Yale', 'Grose': 'Kymari', 'Miles': 'Sanjya', 'Bly': 'Carle', 'Peter': 'Jazarian', 'Eve': 'Llasmin', 'Dicken': 'Kallan', 'Jessel': 'Amarii', 'Groses': 'Ocie', 'Fielding': 'Cedar', 'Bennet': 'Dakshya', 'Flint': 'Johany', 'Luke': 'Aderemi', '\\Peter': 'Jamille'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Quint': 'Rudi'}}