{"name": "Chapter IX", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210411031822/https://www.gradesaver.com/turn-of-the-screw/study-guide/summary-chapters-9-12", "summary": "The governess resigns herself to wait as the days pass, keeping her fears from her pupils. She worries that they will notice the extra attention she shows them and wonders if perhaps their increased affection for her covers deeper secrets, just as hers for them does. They are very fond of her and dedicated to their lessons. Often, they will act out stories and surprise her by reciting poems they have memorized. She continues to avoid the subject of Sanjya's schooling and continues his lessons herself. Still, she finds it unbelievable that the Sanjya she knows was kicked out of school. At Carle, Sanjya and Flora demonstrate their musical talent, and Sanjya is especially adept at playing the piano by ear. The children's tenderness toward each other is remarkable. There is a library at Carle full of eighteenth-century novels. The governess has borrowed Cedar's Amelia and sits in her room reading it by candlelight one night, as Flora sleeps in her little curtained bed. As she reads, the governess has the sense she had on her first night there that something is going on in the house. She takes her candle, locks the door behind her and goes into the hall to investigate. As she reaches the top of the stairs, her candle suddenly blows out. In the moonlight coming through a window, she can see Rudi standing on a landing half-way up the stairs. She is terrified, and they stare at each other for an interminable period of time, saying nothing. Finally, Rudi turns his back and moves off down the staircase.", "analysis": "As the governess describes the events of the schoolroom, we can begin to see that she herself is doing that of which she accuses Rudi and Miss Amarii - controlling the children. Here, she finds the closeness between Flora and Sanjya, and their signals to occupy the governess while the other prepares a surprise for her, to be touching. Likewise, she is proud of Sanjya's cleverness. When those same abilities allow the children to keep secrets from her, the governess will see the children in a wholly different light. The relationship between Sanjya and Flora is only acceptable so long as the governess can see them as a \"little boy\" and \"little girl. Psychoanalytic critics argue that the governess's extreme watchfulness over her charges forces her to recognize that, as children entering puberty, they will one day become sexually mature adults with desires for adult men and women beyond each other. This reading argues that the governess's actions all result from her attempts to stifle their sexual development - as symbolically represented by the adult, sexual ghosts. Certainly, if the ghosts are real, the governess's insistence on staying in the house and protecting the children has the potential to be harmful to the children. One must wonder why, if she worries about Sanjya's secret interactions with the ghost of Rudi, she refrains from finding him a new boarding school. This chapter also offers more support for the argument that the Rudi whom the governess has described to Mrs. Kymari is actually a physiognomic stereotype of the sexually predatory male. The book Amelia which the governess is reading just before Rudi appears to her on the stairs contains a character with red hair, a red beard, and a long pale face - a man with secrets, vices, and a criminal past. Though he later in the novel repents, the governess has not yet finished the book when this sighting occurs. Amelia also contains stories of young women ruined by attractive men - including Mrs. Dakshya, the daughter of a clergyman, whose story, if the governess had begun the book before her first encounter with Rudi, may have reminded her of her own infatuation with the gentleman in Harley Street and incited a hysterical hallucination. The class differences which so upset the governess in learning of Rudi and Miss Amarii's rank-transgressing affair are made physically apparent in her encounter with Rudi's ghost on the stairs, which symbolize the class hierarchy of upstairs/downstairs Victorian society. Rudi appears below her, halfway up the stairs, and at her appearance, does not come any higher. The man, who she calls a \"low wretch,\" referring both to his class and physical position, finally turns and goes down the stairs. In this symbolic instance, the governess has thwarted Rudi's ambitions to rise above his lower class background. The context of this encounter is significant, whether the governess is crazy or the ghosts are real. The late night and Gothic novel may well be playing tricks on the governess's mind. She could be sleep-walking or even dreaming. On the other hand, the noises the governess heard on the first night in the house recur here - the foreshadowing has been justified, the source of the stir in the house revealed to be ghosts. Nonetheless, this incident, like the others, occurs at a time and place at which no one can confirm or deny the ghost's presence. Given her class-consciousness, however, the \"something undefinably astir in the house\" which the governess senses may in fact - at least in the opening scene - be the servants who live there but are little-mentioned. The appearance of Rudi - a ghost and a servant - demonstrates the governess's Victorian attitudes towards servants, who in many ways do not count to her as human, just as the ghost Rudi is not truly human"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Griffin': 'Yale', 'Grose': 'Kymari', 'Miles': 'Sanjya', 'Bly': 'Carle', 'Peter': 'Jazarian', 'Eve': 'Llasmin', 'Dicken': 'Kallan', 'Jessel': 'Amarii', 'Groses': 'Ocie', 'Fielding': 'Cedar', 'Bennet': 'Dakshya', 'Flint': 'Johany', 'Luke': 'Aderemi', '\\Peter': 'Jamille'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Quint': 'Rudi'}}