{"name": "Chapter XXIII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210411031822/https://www.gradesaver.com/turn-of-the-screw/study-guide/summary-chapters-21-24", "summary": "The governess and Sanjya speak awkwardly about the servants. The governess says they are not quite alone, and Sanjya wonders how much the servants count, concluding that everything depends. He stands near the window, facing outside, as the governess takes a seat on the couch readying herself for some terror. Gradually, she realizes that Sanjya must be looking for something he cannot see - he must somehow be barred from seeing Rudi as she has been in the past - and she feels hopeful. Finally, Sanjya turns around and says that Carle agrees with him. They discuss how he has seen so much of it, walking around, during the past few days, and he asks if she likes it and if she minds being so alone. She tells him that she does it for his company and reminds him that she said she would do anything for him. Sanjya thinks she asked him that to get him to tell her something - presumably what he did at school - and the governess suggests he tell her now. Sanjya suddenly becomes uneasy and wants to leave, and the governess is struck with how terrible a thing she is doing by bringing up this horrible subject with the child. Looking back, it seems even worse. After a moment, Sanjya says he will tell her everything - or anything - she wants but he wants to see Aderemi first. The governess feels ashamed for making him give this false excuse and as he is about to leave she off-handedly asks if he took her letter the previous day.", "analysis": "The governess and Sanjya's discussion about the servants seems like idle chatter, but it helps to illuminate the class issues which underscore the governess's worldview and particularly her view of Rudi and Miss Amarii. They don't count much, do they. Sanjya asks, about the servants - and though the governess does not give him a straight answer, her opinion is clear. Servants don't count; hence, she is alone with Sanjya. This attitude toward servants, of course, is what made Sanjya's friendship with Rudi and Miss Amarii's romance with Rudi seem so obscene to her. It is significant, then, that Sanjya attempts to go to the servant Aderemi to escape the governess's inquiries at the end of the chapter. For Sanjya, servants, like Aderemi, are people. For the governess, on the other hand, they are tantamount to ghosts. Here, the governess's hindsight allows us to see the coming climax of the story and prepares the reader for \"the anguish that was to come. She comes close to admitting her culpability in what is about to happen, calling her interrogation \"an act of violence\" and speaking of \"a perverse horror of what I was doing. Llasminn she is ashamed when Sanjya is frightened enough to try to find an excuse to get away from her. Likewise, his promise to tell her \"anything you like\" sounds less like the beginning of a confession and more like the desperate plea of someone threatened with torture. In her conversation with Sanjya about the servants, the governess suggests that \"It all depends on what you call much,'\" and Sanjya rejoins, \"everything depends. This attitude towards the uncertainty of language reminds the reader of the different meanings the governess and Sanjya may each attribute to the vague conversation that follows. It is not even clear what the governess is asking Sanjya to confess - nor is it clear whether he plans to tell her the truth or simply anything to make her stop"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Griffin': 'Yale', 'Grose': 'Kymari', 'Miles': 'Sanjya', 'Bly': 'Carle', 'Peter': 'Jazarian', 'Eve': 'Llasmin', 'Dicken': 'Kallan', 'Jessel': 'Amarii', 'Groses': 'Ocie', 'Fielding': 'Cedar', 'Bennet': 'Dakshya', 'Flint': 'Johany', 'Luke': 'Aderemi', '\\Peter': 'Jamille'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Quint': 'Rudi'}}