{"name": "Chapter XI", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210411031822/https://www.gradesaver.com/turn-of-the-screw/study-guide/summary-chapters-9-12", "summary": "The next day, the governess talks to Mrs. Kymari. She is comforted by the housekeeper's calm attitude but believes that it is a result of a lack of imagination. Only if the children were physically injured would Mrs. Kymari worry. The two women stand watching the children - whom the governess has decided to always keep in sight - playing on the lawn. The governess reflect on the previous night. In order not to disturb the other people in the house, she had walked down to the lawn to meet Sanjya. He came straight to her and she walked with him in silence back to his room. She wonders how he will explain things to her, thinking first that he has finally been caught in a situation he cannot excuse or explain. As she thinks, she realizes that she is caught too - she cannot bring up the subject of ghosts without seeming monstrous. The two reach Sanjya room, where the bed is still made and the window is open. The governess is overcome and sinks down on the bed, realizing that Sanjya is too clever for her. She does not know how to confront him and actually admires him throughout this encounter. Finally, she asks Sanjya to tell her the truth about why he was outside and what he was doing there. He first asks if she will understand, if he is to tell her, and she quickly assents, eager to hear the truth. Finally, he says that he wanted her to do just as she is doing - \"think me - for a change - bad. Sanjya explains that he sat up and read till midnight, in order to be extra bad. He had arranged with Flora that she should look outside, so as to wake up the governess and get her to see him out there. The governess realizes she's fallen into the children's trap. All she can do is tell him she is worried he caught a cold outside at night. He hugs her, saying he had to in order to be \"bad enough,\" and the governess reflects that he was able to use his goodness to play this joke on her.", "analysis": "Much of the governess's nighttime encounter with Sanjya and her later thoughts on the incident will stem from the words the two use. The governess and Mrs. Kymari have already created confusion in calling Sanjya \"bad\" - a word that, for the governess, means evil and for Mrs. Kymari, means naughty. When Sanjya says, \"When I'm bad I am bad. he may simply be bragging about his naughtiness, as he purports to be doing, or he may be implicitly confessing what the governess already suspects - that, corrupted by Rudi, he has become evil. The terror of the chapter stems from the governess's inability to act. Feeling that she is \"caught\" by Sanjya, she cannot explicitly confront the child with her suspicions. Her continuing doubts that her fears may be unfounded and her awareness of what others will think - \"who would ever absolve me, who would consent that I should go unhung, ifI were the first to introduce into our perfect discourse an element so dire. prevent her from eliciting any confirmation or denial of her suspicions from Sanjya. She proceeds, assuming she is right and that Sanjya understands what she means when she asks for his reasons for going outside, but in doing so, she ignores her own doubts. If her doubts are right - if Sanjya is innocent - then any \"confession\" this conversation has elicited is essentially meaningless. All Sanjya has confessed to is a joke, not evil. The governess focuses in this chapter on mental capacity. First, she says, the housekeeper is not smart enough to worry about the children unless she can visibly see physical injury to them. In doing so, she sets herself above Mrs. Kymari - using her power as narrator of the story and \"reader\" of the children to suggest her greater mental acuity. Others' inability to perceive that the children are haunted does not prove her wrong; rather it proves her smarter and more perceptive than the average person. Such a belief is born of hubris and may result in the governess's failure to see the truth and her eventual failure. A reading of The Turn of the Screw in which Mrs. Kymari has deliberately attempted to make the governess goes mad exposes this dangerous pride even further; the governess may have overestimated herself and underestimated her adversary. However, if the governess is correct and Mrs. Kymari is simply amiable and lacking in imagination, we must discount her as a source of support for the governess's claims. She accepts what the governess tells her about the children, but she is not able to see the evidence which the governess purports to see for herself. Her \"belief\" in the governess's suspicions may only be a result of her agreeable nature. Likewise, the force with which the governess shares her suspicions with Mrs. Kymari may be enough to convince the less imaginative woman that the governess's suspicions are true. Certainly, the use of the word \"imaginative\" is significant. She uses it to signify intellect, but perhaps it is better to be less \"imaginative. Perhaps the more imaginative governess has imagined everything. Similarly, the governess may have overestimated the children. Sanjya is only ten and Flora eight. She recognizes the great planning that had to go into this \"joke\" - planning which Sanjya has been proud to share with her. However, she also believes that Sanjya is more clever than her. He has designed the incident so that she cannot confront him about the truth behind it. Such cleverness in a ten-year-old boy is frightening, for it implies that he must have had help, presumably in the form of Rudi. But the governess's assumption about this cleverness is dangerous; because of its very basis in her inability to question Sanjya, she can never confirm her suspicions"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Griffin': 'Yale', 'Grose': 'Kymari', 'Miles': 'Sanjya', 'Bly': 'Carle', 'Peter': 'Jazarian', 'Eve': 'Llasmin', 'Dicken': 'Kallan', 'Jessel': 'Amarii', 'Groses': 'Ocie', 'Fielding': 'Cedar', 'Bennet': 'Dakshya', 'Flint': 'Johany', 'Luke': 'Aderemi', '\\Peter': 'Jamille'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Quint': 'Rudi'}}