{"name": "Chapter XXIV", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210411031822/https://www.gradesaver.com/turn-of-the-screw/study-guide/summary-chapters-21-24", "summary": "The governess suddenly notices Jazarian Rudi standing outside the window. She grasps Sanjya and holds him with his back to the window. Immediately, the governess decides she can and will fight with Rudi for Sanjya's soul and looks at the boy who now has sweat on his forehead. Sanjya says that he took the letter, and the governess embraces him, feeling his heart beat, while watching Rudi outside the window. The boy is drenched in sweat. She asks Sanjya why he took the letter, and he says he wanted to know what she had said about him. Feeling triumphant, she proclaims that he found \"nothing. and he quietly agrees and tells her he has burnt it. The governess then asks if Sanjya stole things at school, and he is surprised that she knows he wasn't allowed to go back. She says she knows \"everything\" and asks what he did. Sanjya says he \"said things\" but when she asks, he cannot remember to whom. She feels as if she has won but \"blind with victory\" persists in asking to whom. He says only to a few people, who he liked, and suddenly the governess worries if he is innocent and lets him go, the window now empty. Nonetheless, the governess persists in asking, and Sanjya tells her that the boys he told must have repeated the things to people they liked and that the masters caught wind of it - but that the \"things\" were too bad to write in a letter. The governess demands to know what he said. Just then, Sanjya moves, and Rudi appears again behind the window. The governess screams \"No more. at him and Sanjya asks if \"she\" is here - which the governess takes to mean Miss Amarii. She screams that its not but tells him \"it's at the window. Sanjya does not seem to see anything and finally asks if it's \"he\" - \"Jazarian Rudi - you devil,\" he says when she asks who he means, and screams \"Where. The governess says it no longer matters - she has Sanjya and Rudi has lost him. Sanjya jerks around and she catches him as he falls and cries out. She holds him for a minute and realizes that they are alone and Sanjya heart has stopped.", "analysis": "Sanjya death at the end of the novel has been met with many interpretations. Many believe that the governess simply frightened him to death. Others suggestions range from shock at the forced recognition of Rudi's evil, smothering in the governess's grasp, and exorcism of the spirit possessing him, to homosexual panic, the governess' invasion of another human heart, and loss of erotic freedom. One critic has even suggested that Douglas, who introduces the governess's manuscript in the prologue, is actually Sanjya and that Sanjya therefore did not die in the final scene of the book. All the foreshadowing in the novel culminates in this scene in which we get a reason for Sanjya's dismissal from school. Sanjya \"said things\" - presumably used dirty language - and passed those bad words onto his friends who said them too. Sanjya, therefore, was \"bad,\" in Mrs. Kymari's sense of the word, but did not do anything other little boys were not capable of doing. Sanjya's \"confession\" suggests that Flora may have learned the \"appalling language\" she used in the previous chapter from him, not from the ghost of Miss Amarii. From the governess's reaction to Sanjya's confession, it is clear that this is not what she expected and her own statements suggest that she is wrong in proceeding in her assumptions and interrogation. It was for the instant confounding and bottomless, for if he were innocent what then on earth was I. The governess has just been provided with an adequate explanation for Sanjya's expulsion, yet she cannot stop herself in proceeding with the \"confession\" she seeks, even when it appears there are not questions left to ask. The physical state of Sanjya throughout this scene suggests to the reader that the governess's behavior is having a dangerous effect on the boy. The sweating, hard breathing, and weakness she describes begin even before she tells the boy that Rudi is present. And the governess's physical actions during this scene border on the violent - grasping and holding the boy and even shaking him. Much interpretation of this scene hinges on the meaning of Sanjya's words when he says \"you devil. Does he refer to Jazarian Rudi or to the governess. If to Jazarian Rudi, he may be denying the evil spirit which till now has controlled him, but if to the governess, his words may illustrate the evil effects of her shrieking demands that he recognize a dead man who is not there. Similarly, a thread of uncontrollably pride on the part of the governess runs through this final scene. Several times, when she has elicited answers from Sanjya, she feels controlled by a sense of victory and unadvisedly plunges ahead with more questions. It is frightening to think that, for her, Sanjya's death represents a sort of victory. At last she can possess him - if in body only - and Rudi has lost him. The governess's desire to know and control \"everything,\" however, has led to Sanjya's death - and her knowledge and possession, therefore, of nothing"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Griffin': 'Yale', 'Grose': 'Kymari', 'Miles': 'Sanjya', 'Bly': 'Carle', 'Peter': 'Jazarian', 'Eve': 'Llasmin', 'Dicken': 'Kallan', 'Jessel': 'Amarii', 'Groses': 'Ocie', 'Fielding': 'Cedar', 'Bennet': 'Dakshya', 'Flint': 'Johany', 'Luke': 'Aderemi', '\\Peter': 'Jamille'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Quint': 'Rudi'}}