{"name": "Chapter XXI", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210411031822/https://www.gradesaver.com/turn-of-the-screw/study-guide/summary-chapters-21-24", "summary": "Mrs. Kymari comes to the governess's room while she is still in bed the next morning and tells her that Flora is feverish and ill and has been frightened all night of seeing the governess. The governess wants to know if she still denies seeing Miss Amarii, and Mrs. Kymari says she can't push her on it. She agrees with the governess, though, that Flora has a \"grand manner\" about not wanting to speak to the governess again. Mrs. Kymari is under the impression that Flora did not see anyone at the lake the day before. The governess says that Flora and Sanjya have worked the situation to their advantage, and that Flora will try to get her uncle to dismiss her from her position as governess. She orders Mrs. Kymari to leave and take Flora straight to the uncle and says that she is confident that Mrs. Kymari's loyalty and Sanjya's - which she plans to gain while alone with him - will protect her. She does not want Sanjya and Flora to see each other alone before Mrs. Kymari and Flora leave, and the housekeeper assures her that so far, that has not occurred. The events of the previous evening, when Sanjya sat with her for two hours as if he wanted to confess, have made the governess believe that he is not lost to her. With a day or two more, she hopes to have him on her side - and if she doesn't, at least Mrs. Kymari will be able to persuade the master to trust her. The housekeeper, who agrees to go to town with Flora immediately, says that she believes the governess because of the \"appalling\" things Flora has said in the past day - using horrible language that Mrs. Kymari has heard before - saying things not about Miss Amarii but about the governess herself. When the governess reminds Mrs. Kymari that the master will have received her letter by the time she and Flora arrive, the housekeeper informs her that when she returned the previous evening, the letter was gone and when asked, Aderemi said he had never seen it. Sanjya must have taken it, Mrs. Kymari says, and furthermore, she now believes he was expelled from school for stealing letters. The governess believes his offense was far worse, but suggests that he will find little useful information in the letter. At least, the offense provides Sanjya with an opportunity for a confession - after which, the governess believes, he will be saved, and so will she.", "analysis": "Flora's illness in this section suggests that the governess, and not she, is in the wrong. If Flora had, in reality, been communing with evil spirits for months, the previous day's confrontation with the governess and appearance of Miss Amarii should not have had so violent an effect upon her. Her fever and her agitation over the thought of seeing the governess again suggest that the governess's accusations have shocked and upset the innocent little girl. Far from saving her, the governess has done just the opposite. The governess's agitation at hearing about Flora's accusations seem to illustrate her guilt. She expects that Flora will be crying about - or at least mentioning - Miss Amarii, but she has only insulted and asked not to see the governess. In this manner, the governess has unintentionally taken on Miss Amarii's role. The horrible, unspeakable language Mrs. Kymari says Flora uses condemns the governess as the very Victorian whore archetype she subconsciously fears. We must note that though earlier the governess had spoken of her intention of saving the children - even at risk of her own life - here her own concerns take priority. She is worried about Flora not because the child is ill or because she is controlled by an evil spirit but because she believes that Flora, made clever as an old woman by Miss Amarii, will be able to convince the uncle to fire her. Likewise, her reason for wanting to remain at Carle with Sanjya stems from her selfish desire to gain his trust and support by the time the uncle arrives - so that he and Mrs. Kymari can argue in her favor. This decision to stay, made for these selfish reasons, will have terrible consequences which the governess would have avoided had she allowed Sanjya to leave with Mrs. Kymari and Flora. Her concern throughout this chapter on her employer's opinion of her remind us that her need for him to like her - which she now admits he does not show by ignoring her - has been at the root of her actions toward the children from the start of the book. Again, we can see the contrast between Mrs. Kymari and the governess's understanding of \"bad\" behavior. Mrs. Kymari says that she believes the governess because Flora uses \"appalling languagereally shocking\" that she herself has heard before - presumably from Miss Amarii. Flora may, however, have learned this language from Miss Amarii while she was alive or even from her brother, who was away at a boys school, and certainly, her use of such language while feverish and upset does not prove her to be evil. Similarly, Mrs. Kymari's conclusion that Sanjya was dismissed from school for stealing letters - again, believable \"bad\" behavior for a child - is seen as unlikely by the governess, who suspects Sanjya of greater evil, though she, unlike Mrs. Kymari, has no proof. At this point, the governess has so intertwined the fates of the children's souls with her own professional fate that she cannot distinguish between actions benefiting them and those benefiting herself. She says she wants to save Sanjya - save his soul - but doing so has only become a means to an end of saving her job"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Griffin': 'Yale', 'Grose': 'Kymari', 'Miles': 'Sanjya', 'Bly': 'Carle', 'Peter': 'Jazarian', 'Eve': 'Llasmin', 'Dicken': 'Kallan', 'Jessel': 'Amarii', 'Groses': 'Ocie', 'Fielding': 'Cedar', 'Bennet': 'Dakshya', 'Flint': 'Johany', 'Luke': 'Aderemi', '\\Peter': 'Jamille'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Quint': 'Rudi'}}