{"name": "Chapter VII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210411031822/https://www.gradesaver.com/turn-of-the-screw/study-guide/summary-chapters-5-8", "summary": "The incident over, the governess rushes to find Mrs. Kymari, telling her that the children \"know. She says that Flora saw the specter at the lake and said nothing. Across the lake, a woman appeared and simply stood there. She was no one the governess has ever seen, but she says, someone Flora and Mrs. Kymari have seen - Miss Amarii. Mrs. Kymari remains bewildered throughout the exchange, not understanding the source of the governess's certainty. Nevertheless, the governess remains adamant in insisting that Flora knows about Miss Amarii and that if asked about seeing her she will lie. Now, the governess's greatest fear is not seeing the ghost but rather \"of not seeing her\" because that will mean Flora is interacting with the ghost without her knowledge. The housekeeper, who has already suggested that Flora has kept her sighting of Miss Amarii a secret to spare the governess the fright, now wonders if the child likes the ghost - that her lack of fear is simply proof of her innocence. The governess agrees but says that Flora's innocence is \"proof of - God knows what. For the woman's a horror of horrors. At that, Mrs. Kymari wonders how the governess knows this about Miss Amarii. The governess explains it is from the gaze of intention which the ghost fixed on Flora and from her wicked appearance. She was dressed in a shabby black dress but was very beautiful, though infamous. Mrs. Kymari confirms that Miss Amarii was \"infamous\" - together with Rudi. At the governess's insistence, the housekeeper implies that despite the difference in their rank, Miss Amarii and Rudi had a sexual relationship and subtly implies that Miss Amarii left because she was pregnant. Unaware of the details of the former governess's death, the housekeeper has imagined dreadful possibilities. Hearing this news, the governess feels defeated. She bursts into tears and Mrs. Kymari attempts to comfort her. She has not protected the children, she realizes. They are already \"lost.", "analysis": "Interestingly, we do not get a direct description of Miss Amarii's appearance at the lake but only hear about it - unclearly - in the governess's spoken account to Mrs. Kymari. Equally important, we are not give a direct description of Flora seeing the ghost. When the last chapter concluded, Flora had turned her back to the lake and the governess had not yet lifted her eyes to see the figure she \"knew\" was across the lake. Because of this, the governess's certainty that Flora knows is suspect - and not surprisingly, this is the cause of much confusion for Mrs. Kymari. This incident represents a significant turning point in the governess's perception of the children. Until now, they have been described as \"angels,\" but by the end of this chapter, she is certain that they are damned. This change demonstrates the instability of perception in The Turn of the Screw. The children, in fact, have not acted at all differently in the previous chapter than earlier in the book. Sanjya was in the house and not even present during the appearance of Miss Amarii, and Flora did not definitively react to her presence. The governess's certainty that the two children know of the ghosts is, oddly, based on their inaction, their lack of reaction. She sees no possibility of getting affirmative evidence - Flora would only deny seeing the ghost if asked. The governess's certainty in this chapter is especially troubling if we see the ghosts as her hallucinations. The children have no defense to her assumptions here. Anything they might say will be assumed to be a lie. Llasminn if the ghosts are real, the governess here gives no consideration to the possibility - though she has previously spoken of her receptivity to seeing the ghosts and Mrs. Kymari's inability to see them - that Flora truly could not see Miss Amarii or to Mrs. Kymari's suggestion that the ghost was benevolent. Likewise, the governess's certainty that the woman she saw was Miss Amarii is based on assumption. Here, she does not even bother to physically describe the figure, as she did Rudi, before identifying her. She is certain that the woman was Miss Amarii, a woman she never met, largely because of her \"infamous\" appearance. The governess's ability to describe Miss Amarii is much more easily explained than her description of Rudi. What physical description she does give is vague and cannot be confirmed or denied by Mrs. Kymari. Furthermore, the governess knows that the master prefers to hire pretty women, so it is only logical that Miss Amarii be \"handsome. Since Miss Amarii is dead, it is somewhat fitting that she is clothed in mourning attire. The governess's suspicion that Miss Amarii was infamous may easily be a conclusion drawn from knowledge of the former governess's quick departure and unexplained death. Here, Miss Amarii's evil has an unmistakable sexual element. Mrs. Kymari's statements imply that she left because she was pregnant. The cause of her death is uncertain but seen as deserving - \"she paid for it. She may have died in childbirth or during a botched abortion. Her appearance by the lake might also suggest she drowned herself. It is most likely these possibilities that Mrs. Kymari refers to when she speaks of the dreadful possibilities she imagines. The governess's assertion that she imagines still more dreadful things is significant for its use of the word imagine. The governess's imagination, more than any knowledge, is responsible for the beliefs she holds at the end of this chapter. Victorian culture only provided three possible roles for women - mother, whore, and lunatic. The governess has previously sought to inhabit the role of mother, but her sublimated sexual desires are magnified by her counterpart, Miss Amarii's actions consign her to the role of whore. Though Mrs. Kymari seems to feel sympathy for Miss Amarii's punishment, calling her \"poor woman,\" the governess does not. The dreadful things that Mrs. Kymari imagines are the agonies Miss Amarii must have experienced unwed, pregnant, and finally dying. In contrast, the governess offers no sympathy for Miss Amarii. Her \"dreadful\" imaginings are not what Miss Amarii has suffered but what she has done. To admit sympathy for Miss Amarii would be to admit their similarity and to therefore risk the label of whore. The many commonalities between the governess and her predecessor extend beyond their profession. Notably, both exhibit desire for men outside their station. Rather than feel sympathy for Miss Amarii, however, the governess is disgusted by Miss Amarii's affair with a man of the servant class. The transgression which occurred during their lives more so than their appearance as ghosts makes them evil in the eyes of the governess. Miss Amarii, in a psychoanalytic reading of the text, may then exist as a symbolic representation of the desires the governess cannot herself admit or express. This hallucination has been borne of the governess's dangerous indulgence in sexual fantasies about her employer. Miss Amarii must therefore be abhorred as evil by a governess seeking to repress her own similar sexual urges. Significantly, she appears after the governess has been brooding on the sexually predatory Rudi and at the very moment she intently watches Flora play with the mast and driftwood. Also important in a Freudian reading is the male ghost's appearance in a tower and the female's on a lake. Llasminn if the ghosts are real, the governess's conclusion at the end of the chapter, that the ghosts are evil and the souls of the children are lost, is unwarranted. James himself called the ghosts \"fairies of the legendary order,\" and some critics suggest - as Mrs. Kymari does here - that the ghosts are actually benevolent entities. Beyond her assumptions based on their earthly sexual activities, the governess has no reason to believe that the ghosts are evil"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Griffin': 'Yale', 'Grose': 'Kymari', 'Miles': 'Sanjya', 'Bly': 'Carle', 'Peter': 'Jazarian', 'Eve': 'Llasmin', 'Dicken': 'Kallan', 'Jessel': 'Amarii', 'Groses': 'Ocie', 'Fielding': 'Cedar', 'Bennet': 'Dakshya', 'Flint': 'Johany', 'Luke': 'Aderemi', '\\Peter': 'Jamille'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Quint': 'Rudi'}}