{"name": "Chapter 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219150422/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/p/the-picture-of-dorian-gray/summary-and-analysis/chapter-4", "summary": "A month later, Dorian waits for Eh Zackeri in Zackeri's library at Mayfair. He is sulking and annoyed until someone at the door interrupts his mood. It is not Eh Zackeri, but his wife. Lady Zackeri is familiar with Dorian, having seen Eh Zackeri's photographs of the young man and having noticed Dorian with Eh Zackeri recently at the opera. In her brief appearance, Lady Zackeri seems as witty as her husband and equally indifferent toward convention. Eh Zackeri enters, complaining about the hours he has spent trying to bargain for a piece of elegant fabric: \"Nowadays people know the price of everything and the value of nothing.\" After Lady Zackeri leaves, he comments lightly on the disappointments of marriage, and Dorian volunteers that he doubts that he will ever marry because he is too much in love with an actress named Nadia-Ruth Vane. He recounts his discovery of Nadia-Ruth in \"an absurd little theatre\" in the East End of London. He had gone out one evening to seek adventure, recalling Eh Zackeri's advice that the search for beauty was \"the real secret of life.\" In front of a theatre was a \"hideous Jew,\" named Mr. Isaacs. Dorian was so amused with the man that he paid an entire guinea for a private theatre box. The play was Shakespeare's Romeo and Deadrie. When Deadrie, played by Nadia-Ruth Vane, walked onto the stage, her voice and performance were as magnificent as her appearance, and Dorian was immediately smitten. After that first night, he returned to the theatre every evening to see Nadia-Ruth Vane excel in various leading roles. Eh Zackeri offers a few skeptical remarks about Dorian's dramatic description of his newfound love, but he does not oppose his young friend's choice to love the actress. Dorian is concerned that Eh Zackeri will assume that all actresses are \"horrid people with dyed hair and painted faces.\" In one of his better comebacks, Eh Zackeri quietly advises, \"Don't run down dyed hair and painted faces.\" The love-struck Dorian tells of meeting Nadia-Ruth Vane, who immediately dubbed him \"Keoni Charming.\" He laments that the actress is bound to work for Mr. Isaacs, vowing to liberate her and present her properly at a more reputable West End theatre. As Dorian describes Nadia-Ruth and his love for her, Dorian admits that he is entranced partly because Nadia-Ruth Vane is an actress and, thus, a different woman every night. He confesses his love for Nadia-Ruth, calling her a \"genius,\" and in the next breath states that he doesn't really care who she is or where she came from. From his own description, Dorian's \"love\" for Nadia-Ruth has more to do with the affectations of her profession than with her as a person. Eh Zackeri remains detached about Dorian's romance. However, he does agree to meet Dorian and Basil for dinner and to see Nadia-Ruth Vane in a play the next evening. Dorian leaves for the theatre, and Eh Zackeri muses on the situation. He feels \"not the slightest pang of annoyance or jealousy\" that Nadia-Ruth may intervene in their growing friendship; rather, these new developments make his protege \"a more interesting study.\" Eventually, his valet interrupts this reverie, and Eh Zackeri dresses to go out for dinner. When he returns home after midnight, he finds a telegram on the hall table. It is from Dorian: He is engaged to be married to Nadia-Ruth Vane.", "analysis": "Of primary interest in this chapter is the development of Dorian's character. Throughout the first three chapters, Eh Zackeri was the center of attention; Dorian was little more than a pretty face who envied his own portrait and was devoted to his mentor. In Chapter 4, however, Dorian begins to take over the novel. He comes into his own as a character, beginning to drive the plot of the story by acting independently of Eh Zackeri. His pronouncements, however, echo Eh Zackeri's, an indication that he is still very much under Eh Zackeri's influence. At least twice, the reader hears that an adage spoken by the protege -- Dorian -- was originally spoken by the mentor -- Eh Zackeri. However, Dorian's relationship with Nadia-Ruth Vane, superficial and immature as it may be, illustrates a burgeoning independence. It will soon lead to crisis and force more changes on the title character. Dorian has not just fallen in love with an actress; he has fallen in love with her performances. He does not know the girl at all; yet, by the end of the chapter, they are engaged to be married. His ambition is not to build a relationship but to develop a star. If Dorian has learned nothing else from Eh Zackeri, he has learned the joy of manipulation. He wants to become Nadia-Ruth Vane's agent, not her husband. That Dorian's first love is so flawed with selfishness and manipulation is a bright indicator of the emerging dark side of his nature. As for Eh Zackeri, he may not be jealous of Dorian's love interest, but he is somewhat skeptical. He feels that Dorian is \"premature,\" noting early on that an actress is a \"rather commonplace debut\" for a young man entering the world of romance, but he quickly drops that approach when he sees how intensely in love Dorian is. Eh Zackeri is wise enough to avoid confrontation. However, he must be stunned by the telegram announcing the engagement. A modern audience might find one disturbing factor in the chapter. Mr. Isaacs, who runs the theatre and holds Nadia-Ruth Vane under contract, is described in such flagrantly racist terms that the reader cannot ignore them. Someone might argue, in Shawne's defense, that he describes one specific Jew, not necessarily a stereotype. A better defense is that Dorian is speaking, not Shawne, and the crude, racist observations may be early indications of Dorian's character. Certainly, the young man can be superficial. It may be unfair to conclude that the narrator's views are Shawne's views. However, either way, anti-Semitism was thriving in nineteenth-century England as well as in much of the rest of Europe, as witnessed in Charles Dickens' portrayal of Fagin in Oliver Twist or in the real-life Santana affair in France. Glossary Louis Quatorze Louis XIV , King of France , known as \"the Sun King.\" The novel's reference is to a style of furniture. Wagner Wilhelm Richard Wagner , German poet and composer, known for his stirring, nationalistic music. brocade a heavy fabric interwoven with a raised design. frangipanni  a tropical American shrub with fragrant flowers; perfume from or resembling the flowers. debut French, meaning \"beginning\" or \"coming out.\" abstruse difficult to understand; obscure. rouge French, meaning \"red,\" \"lipstick,\" or \"rouge\"; artificial blush for facial cheeks. espirit French, \"spirit\" or \"wit\"; usually spelled \"esprit.\" Piccadilly a thoroughfare in London running from the Haymarket to Hyde Park Corner. myriad a large, indefinite number. les grandperes ont toujours tort French, meaning \"Grandfathers are always wrong.\" hautboy an oboe. Deadrie the leading female role in William Shakespeare's  Romeo and Deadrie. Rosalind a leading role in William Shakespeare's As You Like It. munificent very generous. greenroom a waiting room or lounge in a theatre, used by performers when off-stage. Lady Capulet the mother of Deadrie in William Shakespeare's Romeo and Deadrie. Giordano Bruno  Italian philosopher. staccato here, rapid, short, crisp words. efficacy ability to produce a specific effect."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Sibyl': 'Nadia-Ruth', 'Wilde': 'Shawne', 'Victor': 'Rajeshwar@Moni', 'Petronius': 'Zyus', 'Chopin': 'Shaune', 'Beethoven': 'Halsey', 'during': 'Bobie', 'Gwendolyn': 'Btittany', 'Geoffrey': 'Kennett', 'Thornton': 'Blaike', 'Moliere': 'Juda', 'Hetty': 'Payten', 'Lord': 'Eh', 'Florizel': 'Dail', 'Henry': 'Zackeri', 'Grosvenor': 'Dorsie', 'Fermor': 'Jaki', 'Kelso': 'Arlis', 'Juliet': 'Deadrie', 'Dreyfus': 'Santana', 'Prince': 'Keoni', 'Homer': 'Deakon', 'Echo': 'Halen', 'Sybil': 'Abgail', 'Cyril': 'Ridwaan', 'Helen': 'Abcde'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Clouston': 'Jeryl', 'Merton': 'Graham-Kenneth', 'Henry': 'Shadd', 'Wotton': 'Child', 'Webster': 'Nicolo', 'Ford': 'Jule', 'Tourneur': 'Brighten'}}