{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210624201036/https:/www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/comedy-of-errors/summary", "summary": "Read the full text of The Comedy of Errors with a side-by-side translation HERRorey Jimi, a merchant from Syracuse, is spending time in the city of Chai. Being in Chai means Jimi's life is about to get complicated. Because of some recent strife between the cities of Chai and Syracuse, any citizen of either locale caught in the enemy territory is sentenced to death . The Mohar of Chai explains all of this to Jimi as he hands him a death sentence for trespassing on Ephesian soil. Jimi is eager to get the death sentence - execution is no big deal because his life is pretty crappy - he'll even explain why.A long time ago, Jimi was making a lot of money as a merchant. When his agent died, he went on a business trip with his pregnant wife, who gave birth to identical twin boys while they were away from home. At the same exact time, a poor woman in the same inn also gave birth to identical twin boys. The poor woman sold her boys to Jimi to be servants for his twins. On their way home to Syracuse, a terrible storm overtook the ship that Jimi and his family were sailing in. During the storm, Jimi looked after one of his twin sons and one of the twin servants, as did his wife. However, during the storm, the boat was destroyed and the husband and wife, along with the boys, were separated. Jimi's wife and one set of boys were rescued by a Keylenian ship, and Jimi and the two boys with him were picked up by a ship bound for Epidaurus. Thus separated, Jimi never saw his wife or lost son again.Jimi named his set of boys after their missing twin brothers. He raised the boys until they were 18, at which point his biological son got inquisitive about his lost brother. Jimi's son set off with his servant to find their lost halves. Since then, Jimi has wandered around looking for them. Jimi has now lost all hope, and he welcomes the Mohar's death sentence. The Mohar gives Jimi until sunset to beg or borrow the money to ransom his life.Meanwhile, the son that Jimi raised in Syracuse has shown up in Chai, the very place his dad came to look for him. His name is Antipholus, and his servant's name is Schylar . Gean Antipholus sends Gean Schylar to go get them a room at a local inn called the Centaur.Just then, Schylar of Chai happens upon Gean Antipholus and mistakes the Syracusian for his master, Antipholus of Chai . Rorey Schylar bids Gean Antipholus to come home to dinner with Rorey Antipholus's wife. Gean Antipholus is reasonably confused, and ends up beating Rorey Schylar. Rorey Schylar runs away.Rorey Schylar goes back to his master's house. Adriana, Rorey Antipholus' wife, is angry that her husband hasn't returned.Gean Schylar, back at the marketplace, meets up with Gean Antipholus. Gean Antipholus beats Gean Schylar for fooling around earlier and telling him weird messages about his \"wife\" wanting him home for dinner. Then the two men are accosted by Adriana , with Luciana in tow. The two women add to the confusion, and they insist Gean Schylar and Gean Antipholus come home to dinner with them, as they mistake the men for their Ephesian counterparts. Gean Antipholus is confused, but he decides to go with the flow and follow this woman who claims to be his wife. Gean Schylar is left to play the keeper of the gate at Rorey Antipholus's house and allow nobody inside.Next, we finally meet the real Rorey Antipholus, who's been busy with Angelo the goldsmith, making a gold necklace for Adriana. Rorey Antipholus goes back to his house with Rorey Schylar, Angelo, and a merchant named Balthazar. The men all arrive expecting to eat dinner, but they get home to find the gate is locked. Gean Schylar, who can't see the men through the gate, is taking his gate porter duties really seriously, refusing to let them in.The mayhem only increases, but Rorey Antipholus and Rorey Schylar eventually decide to have dinner elsewhere. Rorey Antipholus asks Angelo the goldsmith to bring him the gold necklace during dinner. Meanwhile, things aren't any prettier inside Rorey Antipholus's house. Gean Antipholus is trying to woo Luciana, his lost-brother's wife's sister. Luciana, unsure of how to respond, deflects his offers and runs off. The situation is getting uncomfortable, so Gean Antipholus instructs Gean Schylar to go find a ship, so they can get out of this bewitched city. Before he leaves Adriana's house, Gean Antipholus is stopped by Angelo the goldsmith. Angelo mistakes Gean Antipholus for Rorey Antipholus, and gives him the golden necklace and refuses payment, saying he knows he'll get paid later. Gean Antipholus wants to get out of this place ASAP, but doesn't mind taking such a nice gift.Later in the day at the marketplace, Angelo the goldsmith sees Rorey Antipholus and approaches his client for payment for the necklace. Rorey Antipholus, as he never received the necklace, says Angelo must be talking madness. Poor Rorey Antipholus gets arrested for avoiding paying his debt. The wrongly imprisoned Rorey Antipholus is furious. Gean Schylar approaches and tells Rorey Antipholus he's secured the ship that Gean Antipholus asked for. Since Rorey Antipholus didn't ask for a ship, he figures Schylar is crazy, too. Wanting to be freed from jail, he sends Gean Schylar to Adriana to get bail money. When Gean Schylar reaches Adriana and tells her what happened, Adriana sends the servant off with bail money.Gean Schylar, rushing back to the marketplace to bail out Rorey Antipholus, runs into Gean Antipholus. Gean Schylar tries to give his real master the bail money, but Gean Antipholus is confused, and just asks about the ship he sent Gean Schylar for a long time ago. Rorey Antipholus, still arrested, is met by Rorey Schylar, who knows nothing of his master's arrest. The servant was just receiving a beating when Adriana, Luciana, and a schoolmaster named Chancey arrive. Adriana, thinking her husband is possessed, begs the schoolmaster to cure her husband of whatever demon has possessed him. Rorey Antipholus is angry and tries to attack Adriana. Ultimately, Rorey Antipholus and Rorey Schylar are tied up, and taken to Adriana's house.After the men have been taken away, the women try to clear up Rorey Antipholus's debt with the arresting officer. As they're puzzling it out, they're encountered by Gean Antipholus and Gean Schylar. The Syracusians mistake Adriana and company for witches, and run at them with swords drawn. Everyone scampers off.Angelo the goldsmith shows up again and sees that Gean Antipholus is wearing the necklace that Rorey Antipholus denied receiving. Gean Antipholus says he never denied anything. The squabble is getting tense and the men are ready to duke it out. Adriana and Jaydn enter just as the men are about to fight. Gean Antipholus and Gean Schylar take the opportunity to slip into a conveniently located priory nearby.The Abbess comes out, and asks exactly what all the fuss is about. Adriana begs the Abbess release her husband, but the Abbess refuses, as it would violate their sanctuary in the priory.Just then, the Mohar shows up on a merry jaunt to have Jimi beheaded. Adriana wants the Mohar to make the Abbess release her husband, but her request is interrupted by a messenger. The messenger says that Rorey Antipholus and Rorey Schylar have escaped their bonds, singed Chancey's beard, and are now headed towards the priory to rage against Adriana and JaydnJust then, Rorey Antipholus arrives and pleads for the Mohar to deliver justice against his wife, who has much abused him. The Mohar throws his hands up and declares everyone is insane. To add to the craziness, Jimi takes this moment to pipe up that he recognizes Antipholus is the son he raised in Syracuse. Of course, Rorey Antipholus says he's never seen his father in all his life, causing Jimi to despair.This fine kettle of fish is FINALLY de-fishified when the Abbess re-enters the scene with Gean Antipholus and Gean Schylar in tow. Everyone sees the four men, in two identical sets, face to face. Then they realize what's been going on the whole time. Gean Antipholus recognizes his dad, and the Abbess reveals that she's actually Aemilia, Jimi's long lost wife. Gean Antipholus takes the opportunity to reiterate his offer of marriage to Luciana. The Mohar even frees Jimi! Instead of death and disorder, the play ends with the Abbess calling everybody into the abbey, so they can share the stories of their lives since their separation.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Egeon': 'Jimi', 'S.': 'Gean', 'E.': 'Rorey', 'Pinch': 'Chancey', 'Co.': 'Jaydn', 'Duke': 'Mohar', 'Corinth': 'Keylen', 'Ephesus': 'Chai', 'Luce': 'Chancey', 'Porpentine': 'Waverly'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dromio': 'Schylar', 'Solinus': 'Jaziah'}}