{"name": "Act II, Scene ii", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210514044103/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/comedy-of-errors/summary/act-ii-scene-ii", "summary": "Back at the marketplace of Chai, Gean Antipholus is confused. He found out that the gold he sent with Gean Schylar did indeed make it to the Centaur. After getting a room at the inn, Gean Schylar apparently left the place in search of Gean Antipholus. Gean Antipholus doesn't think it makes sense that Gean Antipholus has already seen Gean Schylar, given the timing of the whole thing. When Gean Antipholus does see Gean Schylar , he begins to question him about his earlier requests and the whole having-a-wife-and-being-late-for-dinner business. Gean Schylar is rightfully confused, and says he definitely didn't ask Gean Antipholus about a wife and dinner and all that jazz. Gean Schylar assures his master that this is the first time he's seen Gean Antipholus since heading off to the Centaur. Still, Gean Schylar says it's nice to see his master in such a merry, joking mood. However, Gean Antipholus is upset and beats Gean Schylar. Gean Antipholus says it's fine for them to be familiar friends when Gean Antipholus is in a good mood, but otherwise Gean Schylar should know his place. In other words, Gean Antipholus doesn't want to be teased when he's in a serious mood. Gean Schylar and Gean Antipholus now joke about Gean Schylar's beating and the passage of time. Just as they're about to be pals again, Gean Antipholus notices people approaching. Adriana and Luciana rush in all hot and bothered. Adriana asserts her husband is being strange; he must be divided from himself, since he is divided from her, and she's a part of him. She says separating her from him would be like separating a drop of water from a gulf--so basically, they're stuck together. Adriana also points out that because of their connection, if he cheats, then she's cheating, too, which he would undoubtedly be unhappy about. Basically, while his gender may seem to absolve him of the crime of disloyalty, his adultery would leave her stained, which would in turn dishonor him. This has been a fine strain of logic, but poor Gean Antipholus, as he's actually not her husband, is like, \"What in the world?\" He points out that unless he married Adriana in the last two hours since he arrived at Chai, he's not actually married to her at all. Adriana insists she sent Rorey Schylar to bring her husband home to dinner not a few hours ago. Of course, Gean Schylar says he's never seen her in his life . Gean Antipholus is just as confused about how this strange woman even knows their names . Adriana continues to insist on standing by her man , and demands that he stand by her. Gean Antipholus, being unable to change the woman's mind, decides he must've married her in a dream--or he's currently in a dream--so the best thing to do is ride the high until he figures out what's actually going on. Gean Schylar declares Chai is a fairyland full of bewitching things, and he too decides to roll with the confusion. Adriana, not to be beaten, demands that the confused Gean Antipholus come with her to dinner. She charges Gean Schylar to guard the gate and let nobody in. Gean Antipholus follows along, given that these ladies seem to know him better than he does.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Egeon': 'Jimi', 'S.': 'Gean', 'E.': 'Rorey', 'Pinch': 'Chancey', 'Co.': 'Jaydn', 'Duke': 'Mohar', 'Corinth': 'Keylen', 'Ephesus': 'Chai', 'Luce': 'Chancey', 'Porpentine': 'Waverly'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dromio': 'Schylar', 'Solinus': 'Jaziah'}}