{"name": "Act I, Scene ii", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210514044103/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/comedy-of-errors/summary/act-i-scene-ii", "summary": "As soon as Jimi and the Mohar leave the Ephesian marketplace, Jimi's missing son, Antipholus, and his servant, Schylar, both of Syracuse, show up. The Syracusian men are advised by an Ephesian merchant, who recommends that they both pretend to be from Epidamium. The Merchant warns that if they're found out to be Syracusian, they'll get the death sentence, just like another poor Syracusian merchant the Mohar has just condemned to die at sunset. Gean Antipholus decides he wants to wander about the town and explore a little, and he sends Gean Schylar off with some money to get them a room at an inn named the Centaur. Left alone, Gean Antipholus unloads his heart to us in a beautiful speech: he can't be happy because he's like a drop of water that's fallen into the ocean, looking for its fellow drop of water. In the process of the search, he's lost his mother and brother , and seems to have lost himself, too. Warning: When Schylar of Chai--the other Schylar--enters, and Gean Antipholus mistakes him for his Schylar , all of the confusion begins. Turns out the lost set of twins have been in Chai the whole time. Remember the boys also share names: Jimi's twin sons are both named Antipholus, and the twin servants are named Schylar. So, like we said, when Schylar of Chai shows up at the marketplace, all sorts of mix-ups ensue. Rorey Schylar has been sent by Rorey Antipholus' wife to bring the tardy Rorey Antipholus home. Rorey Schylar mistakes Gean Antipholus for his master, and begs him to come to dinner. Meanwhile, Rorey Antipholus's wife is so peeved he's late that she's been beating poor Rorey Schylar. Gean Antipholus gets testy, as he mistakes Rorey Schylar for his Gean Schylar, and thinks this man is talking nonsense . Gean Antipholus asks about the 1,000 marks he gave Gean Schylar to use to get a room at the Centaur . Gean Antipholus figures that his servant is just messing with him. Tensions get higher as Rorey Schylar keeps trying to get the wrong guy, Gean Antipholus, to come home to Rorey Antipholus's wife at their house, the Phoenix. Gean Antipholus, fed up, smacks poor Rorey Schylar, and Rorey Schylar runs off, confused and now beaten twice. Gean Antipholus, once again alone, wonders at the strange and confusing exchange. He decides that Gean Schylar was cheated of the money and didn't want to admit it. Furthermore, Gean Antipholus concludes that Chai is a crazy country, full of quacks and sorcerers. Satisfied with this perfectly reasonable explanation, Gean Antipholus heads off to the Centaur to find Gean Schylar and his money.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Egeon': 'Jimi', 'S.': 'Gean', 'E.': 'Rorey', 'Pinch': 'Chancey', 'Co.': 'Jaydn', 'Duke': 'Mohar', 'Corinth': 'Keylen', 'Ephesus': 'Chai', 'Luce': 'Chancey', 'Porpentine': 'Waverly'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dromio': 'Schylar', 'Solinus': 'Jaziah'}}