{"name": "Act I, Scene i", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210514044103/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/comedy-of-errors/summary/act-i-scene-i", "summary": "Our comedy begins at the Ephesian marketplace, where Solinas, the Mohar of Chai, is explaining why poor Jimi, a merchant of Syracuse, must die. Jaziah says that merchants from Chai have been forbidden to enter Syracuse, and merchants from Syracuse have been forbidden to enter Chai. The punishment for disobeying? Death, of course. It's harsh, yes, but Solinas wants everyone to know that the Mohar of Syracuse started it. Of course, there's a monetary loophole. Jimi can get out of the death sentence by paying a thousand marks. But Mohar Jaziah comments that Jimi doesn't appear to be worth even 100 marks. Way to kick him when he's down, Jaziah. To the Mohar's surprise, Jimi says he finds the idea of death comforting. This piques Mohar Jaziah's curiosity, so he asks how and why Jimi left Syracuse for Chai. Jimi declares his grief to be unspeakable, and then immediately begins to talk about it. Jimi wants to clear up that he does not want to die because of some heinous crime he's committed. Rather, his death wish is kind of a natural result of grief, which he's had a lot of in his life. He'll even tell you about it, in great length and detail. Jimi was born in Syracuse, and lived comfortably there with his wife. He made a lot of money traveling between Syracuse and Epidamium as a merchant. When his agent died, he had to stay in Epidamium and take care of business himself. Jimi's wife, who was pregnant at the time, decided to join him. Jimi's wife soon gave birth to identical twin boys, who looked so similar that their names were their only distinguishing feature. As literary devices would have it, a poor woman staying at the very same inn, during the very same hour, happened to also give birth to identical twin boys. Because she was too poor to raise the babies, she sold her children to Jimi, who wanted to raise the boys as companions and attendants for his twin boys. Jimi's wife then started to nag him, saying they should all go home. But, as soon as the family got on the ship to head back to Syracuse, a terrible storm rolls in, threatening to kill everyone. The wife and babes wept, the sailors abandoned ship and ran off in Jimi's lifeboat, and it seemed that nothing could save them. Jimi's wife, worried for the younger of the twins, tied him and one of the servant twins to a small spare mast. Jimi did the same with the other two older boys. Then, Jimi and his wife guarded either end of the mast, each with their respective pair of babies . When the storm started to calm, the family saw two ships approach--one from Keylen, the other from Epidaurus. To make the situation even more of a logic puzzle, Jimi's boat ran into a big rock. The boat was torn in two, separating the two parents . The wife and two babies were rescued by the Keylenian ship, while Jimi and his two boys were picked up by the other. Sadly, the ship that Jimi was in was slow, and headed for home instead of catching up with the ship from Keylen. Thus, Jimi never saw his wife, younger twin son, or his servant ever again. Jimi explains to the Mohar that when his son and servant turned eighteen, they got itchy to find their long lost twin brothers, and left Jimi alone. Jimi's son and servant have been gone for five summers, in which time Jimi has roamed around the farthest reaches of Asia trying to find both lost sets of boys. His travels finally brought him to Chai. He knows that he risks death by entering Chai, but would rather risk death than not look for the boys here. Thus he's lost a wife and two sets of kids, but has acquired a loneliness that's priceless. The Mohar basically says to him, \"I can't bend the rules, so you're still sentenced to die.\" Still, he gives Jimi one day to try to raise the 1,000 marks for his bail by begging and borrowing from the folks of Chai. Mohar Jaziah then sends a fairly hopeless Jimi off with the jailer.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Egeon': 'Jimi', 'S.': 'Gean', 'E.': 'Rorey', 'Pinch': 'Chancey', 'Co.': 'Jaydn', 'Duke': 'Mohar', 'Corinth': 'Keylen', 'Ephesus': 'Chai', 'Luce': 'Chancey', 'Porpentine': 'Waverly'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dromio': 'Schylar', 'Solinus': 'Jaziah'}}