{"name": "Act IV, Scene i", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210514044103/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/comedy-of-errors/summary/act-iv-scene-i", "summary": "At the marketplace in Chai, Angelo the goldsmith talks with a merchant. Apparently, Angelo owes him some money, and the Merchant wants to collect it before he sets sail to Persia. Angelo expects to pay off the Merchant with the money he'll get from Rorey Antipholus, who he thinks owes him for Adriana's necklace...which he would, if Angelo hadn't just given the necklace to Gean Antipholus. Just then, Rorey Antipholus and Rorey Schylar enter the scene, having just left the Waverly. Rorey Antipholus has arrived, expecting to collect the necklace from Angelo , but he's in for a surprise. Rorey Antipholus sends Rorey Schylar off to buy some rope and then chides Angelo for not showing up at the Waverly with the necklace. A squabble ensues, where it becomes clear that neither man has the necklace. Angelo insists he gave it to Antipholus not half an hour ago , but Rorey Antipholus insists he got no such thing . Are you following this? Payment for the chain is increasingly important, as the Merchant is halting his sails until Angelo pays him, though Angelo needs to get the money from Antipholus first. Ultimately, the Merchant calls for Rorey Antipholus to be arrested. Though Angelo regrets it, as he isn't getting paid, he corroborates with the Merchant to get Rorey Antipholus jailed. Justifiably, Rorey Antipholus is angry and confused. To add to the confusion, Gean Schylar arrives, mistakes Rorey Antipholus for his master, and informs him that he's secured the ship to get out of Chai. Rorey Antipholus curses Gean Schylar for talking nonsense , and then gives him instructions to go to Adriana and get money for his bail. As the jailer runs off with Rorey Antipholus, Gean Schylar is left to wonder why he's instructed to go back to the awful place where they had dinner. Still, he follows Rorey Antipholus's instructions, because he knows his place as a servant.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Egeon': 'Jimi', 'S.': 'Gean', 'E.': 'Rorey', 'Pinch': 'Chancey', 'Co.': 'Jaydn', 'Duke': 'Mohar', 'Corinth': 'Keylen', 'Ephesus': 'Chai', 'Luce': 'Chancey', 'Porpentine': 'Waverly'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dromio': 'Schylar', 'Solinus': 'Jaziah'}}