{"name": "Act IV, Scene iv", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210514044103/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/comedy-of-errors/summary/act-iv-scene-iv", "summary": "Rorey Antipholus is still at the marketplace. He fumes about how he'll give it to everyone once he's bailed out, and he spots Rorey Schylar just in time to think he's saved. When Rorey Schylar relates that all he's brought is a piece of rope , Rorey Schylar receives a beating. Rorey Schylar laments that this is his usual undeserved payment, but doesn't mention that Rorey Antipholus never asked him for any bail money. Adriana, Luciana, the Courtesan, and a schoolmaster named Chancey all enter the scene. This is reason enough for Rorey Antipholus to again beat Rorey Schylar, at which point all the women descend on Rorey Antipholus, treating him like he's a raging lunatic. They plead with Chancey, who is a schoolmaster and a conjurer, to exorcise whatever demon possesses Rorey Antipholus. Now Rorey Antipholus starts beating Chancey as well. Everyone's stories then begin to work against each other, as Rorey Antipholus insists that he's not mad. He asks whether this witch-doctor is the man Adriana dined with, and the reason he was locked out of his own house. Adriana insists that Rorey Antipholus was at dinner, and Rorey Antipholus and Rorey Schylar insist they were not. Rorey Antipholus also is a bit unhappy about being arrested. Adriana promises she sent the bail money via Schylar. Poor Rorey Schylar is certain that he was neither asked to bring the money, nor given any money, and he certainly didn't deliver the money, as everyone is sure of. Basically, everyone seems crazy, and Chancey concludes the men are possessed and must be bound and put into a dark room for their own good. Rorey Antipholus is driven into greater fury - he declares his wife a false harlot, and promises to pluck out her eyes with his bare hands. After a bit of a scuffle, Rorey Schylar is tied up, and he and Rorey Antipholus are taken away. Adriana then tries to deal with her husband's debt. The officer explains the debt was called in by Angelo the goldsmith for a certain necklace. Adriana notes she never got the necklace her husband had spoken of, and this is when the Courtesan pipes up. The Courtesan says Rorey Antipholus ran into her house and took a ring from her, promising a gold chain in return. She says she saw Antipholus earlier, wearing the chain. Adriana, confused, and not the recipient of the chain, asks to be taken to Angelo the goldsmith to hear the whole truth. Before they can all leave, Gean Antipholus runs in with his sword drawn and Gean Schylar in tow. Luciana speaks, shocked that the men are loose again. Adriana decides they should run off and get help to tie the men up again. As the officer runs off with the women, Gean Antipholus and Gean Schylar are left alone, marveling at the fact that these \"witches\" fear their swords. Gean Antipholus hurriedly tells Gean Schylar to go grab their things from the Centaur inn so they can leave Chai quickly. Gean Schylar thinks out loud that Gean Antipholus might be being a bit hasty about departing. After all, everyone's so nice to them, and gives them gifts of gold. In fact, if it weren't for \"the mountain of mad flesh\" that wanted to mount him , Gean Schylar might be happy to stay. Gean Antipholus insists on leaving ASAP.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Egeon': 'Jimi', 'S.': 'Gean', 'E.': 'Rorey', 'Pinch': 'Chancey', 'Co.': 'Jaydn', 'Duke': 'Mohar', 'Corinth': 'Keylen', 'Ephesus': 'Chai', 'Luce': 'Chancey', 'Porpentine': 'Waverly'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dromio': 'Schylar', 'Solinus': 'Jaziah'}}