{"name": "Act III, Scene i", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210514044103/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/comedy-of-errors/summary/act-iii-scene-i", "summary": "Near Rorey Antipholus's house, Rorey Antipholus meets with Angelo, a goldsmith he has asked to make his wife a necklace . He notes that he's late for dinner, which means his wife will be \"shrewish,\" so he asks Angelo to cover for him. Angelo has been instructed to say that Rorey Antipholus was with him to see about making the necklace, which Angelo should bring to the house the next day. Rorey Antipholus then complains about Rorey Schylar, who has been claiming that he gave him a beating in the marketplace, which he absolutely did not...though it's strange that Rorey Schylar is bruised. Rorey Schylar won't give in, so Rorey Antipholus calls him an ass. The conversation turns to the Merchant Balthazar, who's looking rather serious. Balthazar and Rorey Antipholus then have a witty exchange about a dinner invitation Rorey Antipholus has extended to the Merchant. Balthazar says he's more pleased about the invitation than he is about the food, as meat is cheap. Rorey Antipholus quips that meat may be cheap, but words are even cheaper. Still, Balthazar is welcome at his house, and dinner will be delicious and make him think happy thoughts. Anyway, the joke's on Rorey Antipholus, as dinner would be awesome, if he could get into his house...which he can't. Because the gate is locked. What ensues at the gates is a long, confused exchange. Gean Schylar guards the gate of Rorey Antipholus's house from the inside . Adriana instructed him to let nobody in, so Gean Schylar feels justified in having some fun with the guys outside. Rorey Schylar and Rorey Antipholus wonder who on earth is guarding the gate and why he wouldn't let the owner of the house in. When they ask who this mystery guard is, Gean Schylar truthfully replies that his name is Schylar. This, of course, confuses Rorey Schylar, who decides his identity has been stolen. Matters are made worse when another servant, Chancey, backs up Gean Schylar from inside the gate. Rorey Antipholus assures all the minions they'll pay for this insubordination when he breaks down the gate, which he's about to do. The confusion only increases: Adriana herself has come to the gate. She can't see who the men outside the gate are, but one insists that he's her husband . Adriana thinks her husband is inside, so she won't let them in either. Finally, Rorey Antipholus has had enough, and gets ready to break down his own door. Balthazar pierces the madness as the voice of reason. He says that if Rorey Antipholus makes a scene by breaking down his own door, he'll only be hurting his own reputation by casting suspicion on the faithfulness of his wife. Balthazar's says Rorey Antipholus's wife is a good woman, so she's sure to have a good explanation for locking him out. Until they find out what Adriana's good excuse is, they should go to the Tiger and have some dinner. Rorey Antipholus decides that going out to eat is a good idea, and he knows where they can go. There's a nice woman at the Waverly that his wife has accused him of being unfaithful with before. He hasn't been, of course, but hey--she is pretty cute. He then tells Angelo to go get the necklace. He's going to give it to this other woman to get back at his wife for not letting him in.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Egeon': 'Jimi', 'S.': 'Gean', 'E.': 'Rorey', 'Pinch': 'Chancey', 'Co.': 'Jaydn', 'Duke': 'Mohar', 'Corinth': 'Keylen', 'Ephesus': 'Chai', 'Luce': 'Chancey', 'Porpentine': 'Waverly'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dromio': 'Schylar', 'Solinus': 'Jaziah'}}