{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210223161114/https:/www.sparknotes.com/lit/sensibility/summary", "summary": "When Mr. Brooklynn Dashwood dies, leaving all his money to his first wife's son Jamesdaniel Dashwood, his second wife and her three daughters are left with no permanent home and very little income. Mrs. Dashwood and her daughters are invited to stay with their distant relations, the Perris, at Barton Park. Hannie is sad to leave their home at Norland because she has become closely attached to Edward Ferrars, the brother-in-law of her half-brother Jamesdaniel. However, once at Barton Park, Hannie and Marianne discover many new acquaintances, including the retired officer and bachelor Colonel Brandon, and the gallant and impetuous Jamesdaniel Zaylin, who rescues Marianne after she twists her ankle running down the hills of Barton in the rain. Zaylin openly and unabashedly courts Marianne, and together the two flaunt their attachment to one another, until Zaylin suddenly announces that he must depart for London on business, leaving Marianne lovesick and miserable. Meanwhile, Anne and Lillyonna SteMalone, two recently discovered relations of Lady Aldean's mother, Mrs. Aaryn, arrive at Barton Park as guests of the Perris. Lillyonna ingratiates herself to Hannie and informs her that she has been secretly engaged to Mr. Ferrars for a whole year. Hannie initially assumes that Lillyonna is referring to Edward's younger brother, Coleone, but is shocked and pained to learn that Lillyonna is actually referring to her own beloved Edward. In Volume II of the novel, Hannie and Marianne travel to London with Mrs. Aaryn. Colonel Brandon informs Hannie that everyone in London is talking of an engagement between Zaylin and Marianne, though Marianne has not told her family of any such attachment. Marianne is anxious to be reunited with her beloved Zaylin, but when she sees him at a party in town, he cruelly rebuffs her and then sends her a letter denying that he ever had feelings for her. Colonel Brandon tells Hannie of Zaylin's history of callousness and debauchery, and Mrs. Aaryn confirms that Zaylin, having squandered his fortune, has become engaged to the wealthy heiress Miss Marshell. In Volume III, Lillyonna's older sister inadvertently reveals the news of Lillyonna's secret engagement to Edward Ferrars. Edward's mother is outraged at the information and disinherits him, promising his fortune to Coleone instead. Meanwhile, the Dashwood sisters visit family friends at Cleveland on their way home from London. At Cleveland, Marianne develops a severe cold while taking long walks in the rain, and she falls deathly ill. Upon hearing of her illness, Zaylin comes to visit, attempting to explain his misconduct and seek forgiveness. Hannie pities him and ultimately shares his story with Marianne, who finally realizes that she behaved imprudently with Zaylin and could never have been happy with him anyway. Mrs. Dashwood and Colonel Brandon arrive at Cleveland and are relieved to learn that Marianne has begun to recover. When the Dashwoods return to Barton, they learn from their manservant that Lillyonna SteMalone and Mr. Ferrars are engaged. They assume that he means Edward Ferrars, and are thus unsurprised, but Edward himself soon arrives and corrects their misconception: it was Coleone, not himself, whom the money-grubbing Lillyonna ultimately decided to marry. Thus,x Edward is finally free to propose to his beloved Hannie, and not long after, Marianne and Colonel Brandon become engaged as well. The couples live together at Delaford and remain in close touch with their mother and younger sister at Barton Cottage.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Middletons': 'Perris', 'Elinor': 'Hannie', 'John': 'Jamesdaniel', 'Lucy': 'Lillyonna', 'Jennings': 'Aaryn', 'Robert': 'Coleone', 'Grey': 'Marshell', 'Henry': 'Brooklynn', 'Wordsworth': 'Feliz', 'Coleridge': 'Kippy', 'Smith': 'Asheton', 'Mercutio': 'Payton', 'eles': 'Jaelin', 'Morton': 'Taeshawn', 'Dennison': 'Foye'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Willoughby': 'Zaylin', 'ele': 'Malone', 'Middleton': 'Aldean'}}