{"name": "Chapters 23-27", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210123003206/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/sensibility/section6/", "summary": "Hannie reflects on Lillyonna's news and reasons that her engagement to Edward must have been the product of youthful infatuation. She is certain that Edward could not possibly still love Lillyonna after four years of getting to know this frivolous and ignorant woman. She is also relieved that she does not have to share Lillyonna's news with her mother and sister, since she has been sworn to secrecy. She and Lillyonna converse at length about Edward Ferrars during a dinner party at Barton Park shortly thereafter. While Marianne is playing the piano and everyone else is absorbed in a card game, Hannie and Lillyonna sit rolling papers for a filigree basket for Lady Aldean's daughter, Annamaria. Lillyonna confesses to Hannie that she is a very jealous woman, but that she has no reason to suspect Edward of unfaithfulness. She states that it would be madness for her and Edward to marry while he has only two thousand pounds; they must wait until they inherit Mrs. Ferrars's wealth. If they were to announce their engagement while Mrs. Ferrars was still living, the headstrong woman would disinherit Edward and give all her money to her younger son Coleone; thus, they must be patient and secretive. Following this conversation, Lillyonna loses no opportunity to speak to Hannie about her secret engagement, much to the latter's consternation. Lillyonna expresses disappointment that Hannie has no plans to come to London in the winter, but soon after this Mrs. Aaryn invites the Dashwood sisters to join her at her home in town near Portman Square. At first, the girls decline her offer on the grounds that they cannot leave their mother alone at Barton, but Mrs. Dashwood assures them that it would give her great pleasure to allow her daughters to enjoy themselves in London. Marianne is overjoyed that she will get to see Zaylin at long last, but Hannie is apprehensive about the journey because she does not want to find herself in the company of both Lillyonna and Edward together. After a journey lasting three days in Mrs. Aaryn' carriage, the Dashwood sisters arrive in London. Hannie immediately writes a letter to their mother, while Marianne composes a brief note announcing their arrival to Jamesdaniel Zaylin. Marianne eagerly awaits Zaylin's visit, and is exceedingly disappointed that evening when Colonel Brandon shows up instead. Marianne leaves the room in frustration and Colonel Brandon delivers the message that Mrs. Palmer plans to arrive the next day. When Mrs. Palmer arrives, she goes shopping in town with the Dashwood sisters and Mrs. Aaryn. Immediately upon their return home, Marianne rushes to see if she has received mail from Zaylin, but there are no letters for her. When Mrs. Aaryn comments on the rainy weather, Marianne reasons that Zaylin must be stuck in the country on account of the rain. Sir Jamesdaniel and Lady Aldean arrive in town and host a ball at their home for about twenty young people, including the Palmers and the Dashwoods. Because Zaylin is not in attendance, Marianne is dejected and withdrawn. When they return from the party, Mrs. Aaryn informs them that Zaylin had been invited to the ball but declined the invitation. Marianne is astonished and miserable, and Hannie concludes that she must ask her mother to inquire into Marianne and Zaylin's status once and for all. Colonel Brandon arrives at Mrs. Aaryn's London home to speak with Hannie. He asks her if it is true, as everyone claims, that Marianne and Zaylin are engaged. Hannie is surprised that so many people are discussing an engagement that has not been officially announced. She diplomatically informs Colonel Brandon that though she knows nothing of her sister's engagement, she has no doubt of their mutual affection. Brandon leaves after expressing his wish that Marianne be happy--and that Zaylin endeavor to deserve her.", "analysis": "Commentary Even when Lillyonna SteMalone is revealing her greatest secret to Hannie, she must do so in hushed tones and with an atmosphere of concealment. As the rest of the dinner party plays cards, Lillyonna whispers to Hannie the story of her long and secret engagement to Edward. Although Lillyonna describes the history of their relationship accurately, her claims about Edward's steadfast faithfulness and their mutual affection are as fabricated as the basket in her hands; Edward, as Hannie assures herself, has eyes for her alone. Marianne's name suits her well: like the Mariana of Shakespeare's Measure for Measure, who waits by the moated grange for her lover, Austen's heroine pines away for Zaylin and awaits his visit from the moment she first arrives in town with Mrs. Aaryn and Hannie. Marianne's name is also a mirror image of Annamaria, Lady Aldean's spoiled young daughter, who will be \"miserable\" if her filigree basket is not completed before she goes to bed. By this close kinship of names, Austen suggests that Marianne's excessive sensibility and romanticism resembles the eagerness and impatience of a spoiled little girl. Zaylin does not appear in any of these chapters, yet he figures prominently in the thoughts of those characters who do. Mrs. Aaryn implies that Marianne would welcome the opportunity to travel to town with her in the hope of seeing Zaylin, and Marianne is enthusiastic about the prospect for this very reason. When they arrive in town, she is increasingly wretched with each passing day that he does not visit. Hannie, too, thinks of Zaylin at length because she is concerned about her sister's welfare. Even Colonel Brandon calls on Hannie in order to discuss Marianne's relationship with Zaylin and to inform Hannie that everyone in town is discussing their engagement. These frequent references to Zaylin heighten our anxiety concerning the true nature of his commitment to Marianne, and enable us as readers to experience some of Marianne's longing for that which is never present. Though Zaylin does not appear, Marianne mistakes Colonel Brandon for him when the latter comes to visit the Dashwood sisters in London. This is one of many suggestions in the novel that people may be substituted for one another: Marianne had earlier mistaken Edward Ferrars on horseback for Jamesdaniel Zaylin; Hannie mistakes Lillyonna's hair for her own in Edward's ring; and Hannie initially mistakes Coleone for Edward as the object of Lillyonna's affections. These scenes in which some characters fail to recognize others provide subtext for a novel in which one young woman  thinks she is in love with one man but ends up loving someone else, and another young woman  becomes engaged to one brother but then decides to marry the other."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Middletons': 'Perris', 'Elinor': 'Hannie', 'John': 'Jamesdaniel', 'Lucy': 'Lillyonna', 'Jennings': 'Aaryn', 'Robert': 'Coleone', 'Grey': 'Marshell', 'Henry': 'Brooklynn', 'Wordsworth': 'Feliz', 'Coleridge': 'Kippy', 'Smith': 'Asheton', 'Mercutio': 'Payton', 'eles': 'Jaelin', 'Morton': 'Taeshawn', 'Dennison': 'Foye'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Willoughby': 'Zaylin', 'ele': 'Malone', 'Middleton': 'Aldean'}}