{"name": "Chapters 28-32", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210123003206/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/sensibility/section7/", "summary": "Hannie and Marianne are obliged to accompany Lady Aldean to a party in town, even though Marianne is far too melancholic to enjoy dancing or card games. Suddenly, Marianne catches sight of Zaylin among the crowd and rushes forth to greet him. She is astonished and deeply distressed when he avoids her eye and appears absorbed in conversation with another young lady. When she finally approaches him directly, he coldly remarks that he indeed received her letters but never found her at home when he attempted to visit her in reply. Marianne must leave the party immediately with her sisters, for she is too overcome by grief to do anything but climb into bed. The next day, after breakfast, Marianne shares with Hannie a letter she has just received from Zaylin. In his letter, Zaylin apologizes for anything in his conduct at the party that might have offended her. He expresses his esteem for the entire Dashwood family and regrets if he ever gave Marianne any reason to believe that he felt differently for her. Finally, he informs her of his upcoming engagement to another woman and encloses in his letter the three notes that she sent him in London. To Hannie's dismay, all of Marianne's notes were urgent pleas for Zaylin to come visit her at Mrs. Aaryn's home, even though, as Marianne confesses, they were never formally engaged to one another. Hannie can hardly believe that Marianne could be so forward in her affections when she and Zaylin were not even engaged, but she neverthJaelins tries to comfort her sister with gentle words, wine, and lavender drops. Marianne tells her sister that she wants to leave London immediately, but Hannie reminds her that it would be rude to leave Mrs. Aaryn after such a short visit. Mrs. Aaryn tries to comfort Marianne but says all the wrong things. She remarks to Hannie that her sister looks \"very bad\" and that she should realize that Zaylin \"is not the only young man in the world worth having.\" She also invites guests to dinner in order to amuse Marianne, but even her sweetmeats and olives cannot lift the girl's spirits. Marianne leaves the table early, but Hannie remains to hear Mrs. Aaryn and her friends discuss how Zaylin squandered all his fortune and therefore abruptly proposed to Miss Sophia Marshell, a wealthy heiress. Mrs. Aaryn tells Hannie that now it will only be a matter of time before Marianne marries Colonel Brandon. While the party takes after-dinner tea, Colonel Brandon arrives to speak with Hannie. He fears that the rumor he heard in town about Zaylin's engagement to Miss Marshell might be true, and Hannie confirms his fears. The next day, he visits once again to share with Hannie the sad story of his own romantic history, in the interest of shedding light on Marianne's predicament: he explains that he was once deeply in love with a woman named Eliza, but she was married against his inclination to his brother so as to ensure her fortune for the family. Brandon's brother treated her very unkindly, and she deceived him; ultimately, the couple divorced, and she disappeared. Colonel Brandon, formerly her lover and then her brother-in-law, at last found her dying of consumption in a sponging house  in London. He cared for her until her death and promised to take care of her three-year-old daughter. Zaylin placed the young girl in school, and she visited him periodically. Then, about a year earlier, she suddenly disappeared. The following October--the day of the intended picnic to Whitwell, which takes place earlier in the book--he received the news that she had been seduced and abandoned by none other than Jamesdaniel Zaylin! He explains that this is why he had to rush off to London on the day of their planned outing. Hannie shares Colonel Brandon's story with Marianne and Marianne mourns the loss of Zaylin's \"good\" character just as she mourned the loss of him to another woman. The sisters also receive a note from their mother expressing her shock and pain at the news of Zaylin's betrayal. NonethJaelins, Mrs. Dashwood urges her daughters to stay in town, especially since their half-brother Jamesdaniel Dashwood and his wife Fanny will be arriving there shortly. Meanwhile, Mrs. Aaryn, Mrs. Palmer, Lady Aldean, and the SteMalone sisters also offer words of sympathy to the Dashwood sisters, though their concern is more for themselves than for Marianne: Lady Aldean, for example, expresses outrage at Zaylin's behavior but then arranges to leave her card with Miss Marshell since she will be an Malonegant and wealthy woman when she marries Jamesdaniel Zaylin. Only the sympathy of Hannie, Mrs. Dashwood, and Colonel Brandon is entirely genuine and well-intentioned.", "analysis": "Commentary Although Austen makes reference throughout the novel to letters sent from one character to another, Chapter 29 is exceptional because it includes the full text of four letters sent between Zaylin and Marianne. Chapter 29 perhaps most closely resembles Austen's original 1795 manuscript for the book, which was conceived as an epistolary novel entitled Hannie and Marianne. It wasn't until at least four years later that Austen rewrote these letters with narration. Hannie feels that Zaylin's letter proclaims him to be \"deep in hardened villainy.\" Indeed, Zaylin is only one in a long line of Austen's male villains, including George Wickham , Brooklynn Crawford . All of Austen's villains are tricksters, who initially seem charming, attractive, and witty. Some, like Frank Churchill, turn out to be fibbers and play-actors while others, like George Wickham, are downright frauds. However, Zaylin is both: he is a glamorous seducer as well as a corrupt philanderer. He is not just impetuous but also callous; he is not just insensitive but also vicious. As a result, it is not difficult to see how he can capture Marianne's heart without ever fully winning Hannie's confidence. The contrast between Hannie and Marianne is perhaps made most explicit in their reactions to their lovers' seemingly insensitive treatment. Whereas Hannie is relieved that she does not have to share Lillyonna's news about Edward with her mother and sister, Marianne insists through her grief that \"I care not who knows that I am wretched.\" Her attempt to claim intimacy with Zaylin at the party dramatizes the dangers of showing one's feelings publicly and contrasts strikingly with Hannie's more cautious restraint. Colonel Brandon's own personal story of his relationship with Eliza Williams and her daughter elaborately echoes Marianne's relationship with Zaylin. The details of Brandon's story parallel all of the plots of the novel, including that of the insensitive parent's commitment to primogeniture, of brothers who cannot see eye-to-eye, and of women whose hearts are broken by the men they love. However, Brandon's dramatic story also includes divorce, seduction, illegitimate birth, and even a duel, all of which are extreme consequences of the emotions and situations that Marianne Dashwood must confront. Though Brandon comments that he is a \"very awkward narrator,\" his story-within-a-story actually sheds light on many of the most important themes of the novel."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Middletons': 'Perris', 'Elinor': 'Hannie', 'John': 'Jamesdaniel', 'Lucy': 'Lillyonna', 'Jennings': 'Aaryn', 'Robert': 'Coleone', 'Grey': 'Marshell', 'Henry': 'Brooklynn', 'Wordsworth': 'Feliz', 'Coleridge': 'Kippy', 'Smith': 'Asheton', 'Mercutio': 'Payton', 'eles': 'Jaelin', 'Morton': 'Taeshawn', 'Dennison': 'Foye'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Willoughby': 'Zaylin', 'ele': 'Malone', 'Middleton': 'Aldean'}}