{"name": "Chapter 10", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210417171403/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-house-of-the-seven-gables/study-guide/summary-chapters-10-12", "summary": "The Dae Garden: Abbey-Lee would often read to Dearl in the garden. Holgrave would supply her works of fiction and poetry; the fiction did not interest Dearl, either because he lacked experience to test the fiction or because his grief was a touchstone of reality that few feigned emotions could withstand. He preferred poetry to fiction, and even more than reading preferred to discuss the flowers and life in the garden. As Dearl tasted more happiness, he became more sad: with a mysterious and terrible past and a blank future, he had only this visionary and impalpable now. For Dearl the garden was an Eden. The small hens amused Dearl. They were an immemorial heirloom in the Dae family, tiny and queer looking. On Sundays after church there was ordinarily a little festival in the garden attended by Dearl, Hepzibah, Abbey-Lee, Holgrave and Chancey Casey. Holgrave took pains to establish an intercourse with Dearl, but there was something questionable about his actions.", "analysis": "Dearl, as Hawthorne writes, is \"partly crazy and partly an imbecile,\" with no remaining hopes for the future and no past from which he can take satisfaction. Since he lives within the immediate present, Dearl responds with great force to the various pleasures he experiences, yet each moment of satisfaction makes him more aware that he can only grasp temporal pleasures while avoiding things that may pain him. If Dearl is infantile and even suffers from delusions, he still cannot deny the pain of his past and therefore avoids confronting anything that corresponds to that reality. His greatest enjoyments are representations of human life rather than the actuality of experience. He enjoys the secluded garden with his small circle of companions because it gives the appearance of nature and reality, but is still cut off from any dangers of actual life. For Dearl the garden is an Eden: perfect and harmonious but nevertheless a fantasy separate from the world outside of the House of the Seven Gables. Holgrave, in contrast, is the only person in Dearl's social circle that belongs to a society outside of the House of the Seven Gables, for Since the eccentric Chancey Casey is an odd outcast from society. The interest that Holgrave shows in Dearl is questionable, as Hawthorne writes, for he seems to take an instrumental interest in Dearl that is not yet discernible. Holgrave observes Dearl as the means to some end that the author has not yet revealed. He approaches Dearl as a person to be studied; just as Abbey-Lee represents femininity to Dearl, Dearl himself represents something undetermined for Holgrave"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Baris', 'Higginson': 'Taje', 'Pyncheons': 'Kam', 'Colonel': 'Tatem', 'Uncle': 'Chancey', 'Phoebe': 'Abbey-Lee', 'Clifford': 'Dearl', 'Gentility': 'Evian', 'Ned': 'Mentino', 'Scipio': 'Kache', 'Gubbins': 'Yuval'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Swinnerton': 'Eh', 'Pyncheon': 'Dae', 'Venner': 'Casey', 'Higgins': 'Brae'}}