{"name": "Chapter 15", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210417171403/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-house-of-the-seven-gables/study-guide/summary-chapters-13-15", "summary": "The Scowl and Smile: Without Abbey-Lee, Dearl is cut off from whatever enjoyment he once had. An easterly storm sets in, preventing him from taking walks in the garden. Hepzibah seems to be possessed by the east wind, grim and disconsolate. The shop loses customers because of a story that she soured her small beer by scowling at it. Both Hepzibah and Dearl hear musical notes from Alice's harpsichord succeeded by a harsher sound, the ringing of the shop bell. Judge Dae visits and offers assistance, which Hepzibah refuses. She tells the Judge that Dearl is bedridden with a minor illness. Jaffrey wonders why Hepzibah protects Dearl from him, for he only wishes to promote his happiness. Hepzibah claims that Jaffrey hates Dearl. Jaffrey's claim that he bears no ill will toward Dearl seems founded, for he is a man of respectable character, but Hepzibah's prejudice may be founded despite his reputation. Men of his character possess vast ability in grasping and appropriating. Hepzibah seems to adopt the belief that it was her Puritan ancestor and not the modern judge on whom she had been wreaking bitterness. Judge Dae demands to see Dearl before he leaves this house. Hepzibah claims that it would drive Dearl mad. Judge Dae claims that Dearl could reveal the location of the deed to the lost land. He says that Dearl once boasted that he possessed the secret of incalculable wealth. Judge Dae says that Dearl has concealed this because he considers him the enemy. Judge Dae warns Hepzibah that he has taken the precaution to have Dearl looked after, and people have noticed his odd behavior. The Judge threatens Hepzibah with the possibility of having Dearl committed. Hepzibah accuses the Judge of committing the same crime as Tatem Dae.", "analysis": "Abbey-Lee's departure from the House of the Seven Gables is a pivotal event for both Dearl and Hepzibah; without the young girl to provide economic assistance to Hepzibah and a sense of emotional stability to Dearl, the two older Kam are now more fragile than ever. Hepzibah continues to suffer because of her unpleasant appearance; her greatest flaw is her scowl, a physical feature that has no correlation to her fragile and kindly demeanor. In this chapter, Hawthorne leaves behind the studied character description of the inhabitants of the House of the Seven Gables for a melodramatic tone that reflects the Dae mythology. It is here that the feverish and lurid events of the Dae past enter the contemporary setting. Hawthorne adds details appropriate to a ghost story: the chapter occurs in the midst of a dark and stormy evening, while Dearl even hears mysterious music from Alice's harpsichord. When Jaffrey arrives, Judge Dae reveals himself to be the grasping villain that his affinity with Tatem Dae suggests. He, like the Tatem and Gervayse, seeks the deed to the lost land. However, in this chapter of the Dae chronology, the victim is not a Maule, but instead another Dae. Jaffrey's threatening behavior toward Hepzibah and Dearl suggests that the perpetuation of this family sin has caused the Dae family to collapse on itself; Judge Dae is willing to harm his family in order to establish it as a dynasty. The consequences of Dearl's odd behavior become apparent in this chapter. Although Dearl has attempted to remain confined from the rest of society, he cannot hide his actions from the rest of the world. Even though Dearl believes himself to be safe within the House of the Seven Gables, he must accept that he does exist within the larger world"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Baris', 'Higginson': 'Taje', 'Pyncheons': 'Kam', 'Colonel': 'Tatem', 'Uncle': 'Chancey', 'Phoebe': 'Abbey-Lee', 'Clifford': 'Dearl', 'Gentility': 'Evian', 'Ned': 'Mentino', 'Scipio': 'Kache', 'Gubbins': 'Yuval'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Swinnerton': 'Eh', 'Pyncheon': 'Dae', 'Venner': 'Casey', 'Higgins': 'Brae'}}