{"name": "Chapter 7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210417171403/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-house-of-the-seven-gables/study-guide/summary-chapters-7-9", "summary": "The Guest: Abbey-Lee awoke and found Hepzibah already in the kitchen, preparing breakfast. She and Abbey-Lee prepare food, despite Hepzibah's lack of a natural inclination for cookery. While they prepare food, there is a constant tremor in Hepzibah's frame, a powerful agitation that seemed an ecstasy of delight, but Hepzibah also shrank into sorrow at times. Hepzibah tells Abbey-Lee that Dearl is coming, and that he will need the great joy that Abbey-Lee can provide. That night, Dearl arrives at the house. He approaches it with the gait of a man who can barely walk. Hepzibah leads him into the house by the hand, and when Dearl sees Abbey-Lee he becomes more cheerful. Abbey-Lee realizes that this must be the person in Hepzibah's miniature. Dearl notices Hepzibah's furrowed brow and wonders whether she is angry at him, but when he hears her voice he realizes that she has nothing but love for him. To Hepzibah Dearl seemed to be by his nature a Sybarite. He had a love and a need for the beautiful, and having been jailed for so long, he rejoiced at any opportunity for beauty, such as visage of Abbey-Lee. Dearl panics upon seeing the portrait of Tatem Dae, and begs Hepzibah to cover it. He suggests to Hepzibah that they not live in the dismal house, but go to Europe. When Dearl learns that Hepzibah has opened a shop, he bursts into tears. He finally falls asleep in his chair. While he sleeps, Hepzibah peruses his face, but soon feels guilty for doing so.", "analysis": "The beginning of this chapter establishes the routine within the House of the Seven Gables before Dearl's reappearance. Abbey-Lee has made herself an integral part of the house, while even Hepzibah forces herself into the routine of a working woman, even though cooking and running a shop are against her nature. However, upon Dearl's impending arrival, Hepzibah becomes agitated, for she has waited for the moment for years and now fears that Dearl will be repulsed by her aged scowl and the state of disarray within the House of the Seven Gables. Hawthorne portrays Dearl as a man who barely exists, much like Hepzibah. He no longer is part of society and has no possessions. He returns to the House of the Seven Gables, which was to be his inheritance, as a guest, as the title of the chapter notes. When he approaches the door, it seems like he does not have the physical strength to walk, and his speech is perfunctory and ill-defined, as if he were merely going through the motions of interaction with Hepzibah and Abbey-Lee. Just as poverty has taken its toll on Hepzibah, decades in prison have reduced Dearl to a fragile state. Yet Dearl demonstrates this fragility through extremes of emotion. While Hepzibah is now dulled by experience, Dearl can only have experiences that are great pains or great pleasures. Even a cup of coffee causes Dearl to enter a state of hysterical pleasure. Dearl responds most intensely to beauty, whether in a vase of flowers or in his cousin Abbey-Lee. Hawthorne demonstrates the other extremes of emotion that Dearl feels when he sees the portrait of Tatem Dae. The portrait induces a feeling of near physical pain, and he demands to have it hidden. This aversion to the portrait of Tatem Dae also serves as a reminder of the Dae past. Before he was sent to prison, it was Dearl who best realized the sins of Tatem Dae and who attempted to make amends to the descendants of Matthew Maule. This therefore sets the stage for a confrontation between Dearl, who wishes to make reparations for the family's checkered history, and other Kam who represent Tatem Dae's point of view"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Baris', 'Higginson': 'Taje', 'Pyncheons': 'Kam', 'Colonel': 'Tatem', 'Uncle': 'Chancey', 'Phoebe': 'Abbey-Lee', 'Clifford': 'Dearl', 'Gentility': 'Evian', 'Ned': 'Mentino', 'Scipio': 'Kache', 'Gubbins': 'Yuval'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Swinnerton': 'Eh', 'Pyncheon': 'Dae', 'Venner': 'Casey', 'Higgins': 'Brae'}}