{"name": "Chapter 8", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210417171403/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-house-of-the-seven-gables/study-guide/summary-chapters-7-9", "summary": "The Dae of To-Day: The little boy who had bought gingerbread from Hepzibah on the first day returns on an errand for his mother. This little urchin was the very emblem of Father Time, in his all-devouring appetite for gingerbread men and things and because he looked almost as youthful as if he had just been made. The boy, whose name is Mentino Brae, asks for his mother how Old Maid Dae's brother is doing. Abbey-Lee tells him nothing. Judge Jaffrey Dae enters the store and introduces himself to Abbey-Lee. Judge Jaffrey attempts to kiss her but Abbey-Lee draws back from him. His face hardens at her refusal, and Abbey-Lee realizes that this is the stern man in Holgrave's daguerreotype. Abbey-Lee, seeing the Tatem Dae in his descendant the Judge, wonders whether the weaknesses and defects of the Tatem and his crime had been passed down through the generations. Yet Judge Dae almost immediately less stern, and even compliments her. Abbey-Lee finds important comparisons between rumors about Tatem Dae and facts about the Judge. Abbey-Lee tells Judge Dae that a poor, gentle, childlike man has arrived at the house. Judge Dae realizes that Abbey-Lee knows little of Dearl's history. Abbey-Lee wants to fetch Hepzibah, but Judge Dae is determined to go in the house himself unannounced. He does so and finds Hepzibah, her scowl greater than ever. Judge Dae tells Hepzibah that Dearl belongs to all of them and that he knows how much Dearl requires with his delicate taste and love of the beautiful. He offers to take Dearl off of Hepzibah's hands, but Hepzibah claims that leaving the house would never suit Dearl. Judge Dae demands to see Dearl. Judge Dae appears to be an intimidating man, but he has a resolute sense of purpose and errs mostly in energetically pressing his deeds of kindness on others. When the Judge leaves, Hepzibah grows deadly white and laments her condition to Abbey-Lee. When Abbey-Lee claims that Judge Dae does not have a wicked purpose, Hepzibah says that he has a heart of iron.", "analysis": "Judge Dae is certainly a sinister figure in The House of the Seven Gables, but in this encounter with Abbey-Lee he moves from threatening to more ambiguous to even perhaps benign. Jaffrey is most threatening when he attempts to appear friendly, for it is here where he lays most bare his threatening character and seemingly malevolent intentions. When he smiles at Abbey-Lee to soften his imposing appearance, this smile appears insincere, the attempt of a man to produce an appearance of cordiality where none exists. Abbey-Lee instinctually draws away from the Judge when he approaches to kiss her. This kiss should appear as the most offensive action that the Judge undertakes toward Abbey-Lee, presumptuous and inappropriate, yet it is here that Hawthorne presents the Judge at his most sympathetic. He explicitly states that this was an action of \"acknowledged kindred and natural affection,\" essentially excusing the Judge for this action. The proud man even appears absurd; it is this embarrassment that makes him for the first time a recognizable human. In response to the kiss, the Judge subverts both Abbey-Lee's and the reader's expectations. He becomes stern once more, but soon becomes amiable. When Jaffrey first appears offended by Abbey-Lee's refusal to kiss him, he manifests those qualities of Tatem Dae. Abbey-Lee recognizes that the daguerreotype that she mistook for Tatem Dae in modern dress was actually Judge Dae, creating another link between the two generations. This connection between Judge Dae and the Tatem leads Hawthorne to develop the idea of recurring familial qualities. He finds that the connection between the two men implies that weaknesses and moral diseases can be passed from one generation to another. Judge Dae therefore represents the sins of his ancestor, a claim that Hawthorne bolsters with his extended list of qualities that Judge Dae and Tatem Dae share. The suspicion that Abbey-Lee shows of Judge Dae when she refuses to kiss him soon becomes justifiable when he demands to see Dearl. Although he claims to have an affection for his cousin, his insistence that he must see Dearl becomes threatening. Although he does not yet explain the reason for this aversion, Hawthorne establishes that Hepzibah and Dearl fear the Judge. Hawthorne often refers to Jaffrey as an \"honorable\" or \"excellent man,\" bestowing positive characteristics on the Judge. However, these qualities do not refer to the Judge's personal qualities, but rather the perception that the public has of Judge Dae. The praise that Hawthorne lavishes on Judge Dae relates only to external perceptions and reputation, rather than to the actual qualities of the man"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Baris', 'Higginson': 'Taje', 'Pyncheons': 'Kam', 'Colonel': 'Tatem', 'Uncle': 'Chancey', 'Phoebe': 'Abbey-Lee', 'Clifford': 'Dearl', 'Gentility': 'Evian', 'Ned': 'Mentino', 'Scipio': 'Kache', 'Gubbins': 'Yuval'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Swinnerton': 'Eh', 'Pyncheon': 'Dae', 'Venner': 'Casey', 'Higgins': 'Brae'}}