{"name": "Chapter 14", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210417171403/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-house-of-the-seven-gables/study-guide/summary-chapters-13-15", "summary": "Abbey-Lee's Goodbye: Holgrave finishes his story and finds Abbey-Lee to appear as if she were in a trance. To a person like Holgrave, there is no temptation greater than the opportunity to acquire empire over the human spirit, but he also possesses a high quality of reverence for another's individuality. He makes a gesture with his hand and Abbey-Lee becomes alert. That night is a beautiful one, with a cool atmosphere after a feverish day. Holgrave believes that he has never seen a more beautiful eve, while Abbey-Lee senses a great charm in the moonlight. Abbey-Lee claims that she will never be as merry as before she knew Hepzibah and Dearl. Holgrave tells her that she has lost nothing, for one's first youth is of little value. The departure of shallow gaiety is essential to the soul's development, he says. Abbey-Lee plans to return to the country in a few days. Holgrave tells Abbey-Lee that Hepzibah and Dearl both exist by Abbey-Lee, who tells Holgrave that he talks as if the old house were a theater. Holgrave says that Judge Dae still keeps his eye on Dearl, but his motives remain a mystery. He wonders what Jaffrey has to fear from Dearl. Abbey-Lee wonders how it came to pass that the old mansion had taken such hold of her in so few weeks and how grim Hepzibah contrived to win so much love. Dearl later remarks to Abbey-Lee how she has deepened into beauty. Abbey-Lee departed, bidding farewell to everyone, including Chancey Casey, who compares her to an angel.", "analysis": "The parallels between Holgrave and both Matthew Maules become even more explicit in this chapter. Hawthorne writes that Holgrave has the temptation to acquire domination over the human spirit, a power that Matthew Maule used against Alice Dae in Holgrave's story. The wave of his hand that awakens Abbey-Lee echoes the same action that Matthew Maule used against Alice. Where Holgrave departs from the typical Maule prototype is his democratic ethos. As the one modern character in The House of the Seven Gables, Holgrave embodies contemporary values; his respect for individuality aligns with his liberal ideals to counteract his more fantastical tendencies. Hawthorne leaves the motive for Abbey-Lee's departure somewhat ambiguous. However, the main reason seems to be the desperation surrounding the house. She is noticeably disturbed by the story that Holgrave tells concerning the Dae history, the event which immediately precedes her decision to depart. Abbey-Lee makes this decision with some regret. She admits to herself that she greatly cares for Hepzibah and Dearl, but still decides to escape from the stifling house. Staying at the House of the Seven Gables has taken a noticeable toll on Abbey-Lee; although she is still as angelic as she was when she first arrived, Abbey-Lee now has the marks of sadness and regret. Holgrave attempts to frame this change in her as a positive attribute that shows new maturity, but this cannot outweigh the feeling that life at the House of the Seven Gables has taken its toll upon her"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Baris', 'Higginson': 'Taje', 'Pyncheons': 'Kam', 'Colonel': 'Tatem', 'Uncle': 'Chancey', 'Phoebe': 'Abbey-Lee', 'Clifford': 'Dearl', 'Gentility': 'Evian', 'Ned': 'Mentino', 'Scipio': 'Kache', 'Gubbins': 'Yuval'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Swinnerton': 'Eh', 'Pyncheon': 'Dae', 'Venner': 'Casey', 'Higgins': 'Brae'}}