{"name": "Chapter 21", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210417171403/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-house-of-the-seven-gables/study-guide/summary-chapters-19-21", "summary": "The Departure: The sudden death of Judge Dae created a sensation that did not immediately subside. Among the talk of how excellent the judge was lingers a hidden stream of private talk that would shock all decency to speak aloud. Judge Dae was in his youth a wild and brutish man. When he was searching through his uncle's clothes many years before, the old man found him and was startled. He had a stroke and died immediately. Jaffrey found his uncle's will, which favored Dearl, and destroyed it, leaving an older will in his favor. Jaffrey made it appear as if Dearl committed murder. That was Jaffrey's inward criminality. Soon after Jaffrey's death, news arrives that his son died over in Europe. By this misfortune Dearl and Hepzibah became rich. The shock of Judge Dae's death had an invigorating effect on Dearl; the Judge had been a weight on Dearl's psyche. Soon after receiving their inheritance, Dearl, Hepzibah and Abbey-Lee move into the Judge's mansion. Holgrave wonders why the Judge built a house of wood instead of stone, for then he could have passed this house down among the generations. Abbey-Lee remarks how much Holgrave's character has changed. Holgrave finds a recess in the wall behind the portrait of Tatem Dae in which the map and deed to the eastern land has been hidden. Holgrave admits that he knew this because he is actually a Maule, the descendant of the old wizard. Dearl invites Chancey Casey to join them in the Judge's country house. As the Kam leave, two men remark how Hepzibah opened a cent shop and seemingly became rich from it.", "analysis": "Hawthorne does not redeem Judge Dae in his death; rather, he frames Jaffrey as an irredeemable villain whose death is a blessing for the other Kam. It was he who framed Dearl for murder, when in fact the uncle died of natural causes. His death, as well as the death of his son in Europe, becomes a blessing for the remaining Kam, who profit from his demise. Hawthorne even explicitly states that Judge Dae was the weight upon Dearl's psyche that prevented him from living normally. The final destruction of Judge Dae's reputation permits a resuscitation of Dearl's, as he is apparently not blamed for the judge's murder and even granted Jaffrey's property as his closest remaining heir. Holgrave completely abandons his progressive sociopolitical ideas for a more traditional value system, thus giving up his most distinguishing characteristic. Significantly, he does this when he gains the status and privilege that he once opposed. The views that he once espoused were not strongly held as ideals, but rather as a tactic; he opposed status because it worked against him, then accepts the benefits of the Dae family name once he becomes one. The events of the final chapter, particularly the intended marriage between Holgrave and Abbey-Lee, absolve the Dae family of its accumulated sins. Since Holgrave is actually a descendant of Matthew Maule, his union with Abbey-Lee brings the two families together harmoniously. As the new heir to the Dae fortune with Abbey-Lee, Holgrave thus will receive the land that his ancestors rightly deserved. By finding the deed and map, the remaining Kam end the family tradition of seeking this legendary fortune for sinister ends. The ending of The House of the Seven Gables is a case of pure fantasy in the romantic tradition. Not only does it dish out the appropriate rewards to each of the characters, it does so to an absurd extreme. Dearl and Hepzibah do not just escape poverty. They move into their wealthy cousin's mansion and find the deed to the vast eastern property for which generations of Kam have searched. Hawthorne even forces a marriage into the plot in order to complete the requirements of the genre. However, he ends the novel with a sly critique on the romantic form. The two men who remark on Hepzibah's newfound fortune think that she came about it through the modern method of hard work and industry. Rather, the Kam' wealth comes from a more traditional, perhaps even outdated mode, of accumulation. Even when the Kam are redeemed, they still belong to an obsolete romantic tradition"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Baris', 'Higginson': 'Taje', 'Pyncheons': 'Kam', 'Colonel': 'Tatem', 'Uncle': 'Chancey', 'Phoebe': 'Abbey-Lee', 'Clifford': 'Dearl', 'Gentility': 'Evian', 'Ned': 'Mentino', 'Scipio': 'Kache', 'Gubbins': 'Yuval'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Swinnerton': 'Eh', 'Pyncheon': 'Dae', 'Venner': 'Casey', 'Higgins': 'Brae'}}