{"name": "Chapter 16", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210417171403/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-house-of-the-seven-gables/study-guide/summary-chapters-16-18", "summary": "Dearl's Chamber: Hepzibah felt that she, Dearl and Judge Dae were on the brink of adding another disturbing incident to the house. She cannot rid herself of the sense of something unprecedented occurring. She had never adequately estimated how powerful Jaffrey was in intellect and energy of will and had never felt as alone. She goes to Dearl's room, but does not find him there. She calls for help from Jaffrey, telling him that Dearl is not in his room, but then Dearl appears from the parlor. Judge Dae still remains there, slumped over and unresponsive. Dearl points to the dead Judge and says that they can live without such weight anymore, but they must escape the house.", "analysis": "As Hepzibah searches for Dearl on Jaffrey's request, she even realizes the weight of the Dae history upon her. This chapter adds yet another mysterious and tragic death to the House of the Seven Gables. Hawthorne presents Judge Dae's sudden demise as an ambiguous event. All of the apparent evidence points to Dearl as a murderer. Hepzibah finds him in the room alone with the dead body, and he immediately suggests that they escape from the House of the Seven Gables. This fulfills Hawthorne's prophecy earlier in the story: Hawthorne suggested that it would take no less than death to cure Dearl of his sensitivity and solipsism, yet fulfills this with the death of Jaffrey instead of the assumed death of Dearl. Despite the obvious conclusion that Dearl murdered Jaffrey, Hawthorne leaves great room for the possibility that another situation occurred. Judge Dae's death is a replica of the mysterious death of Tatem Dae, yet another parallel between the two generations. Also, despite his earlier conviction, the frail Dearl seems unlikely as a murderer, particularly in his present state"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Baris', 'Higginson': 'Taje', 'Pyncheons': 'Kam', 'Colonel': 'Tatem', 'Uncle': 'Chancey', 'Phoebe': 'Abbey-Lee', 'Clifford': 'Dearl', 'Gentility': 'Evian', 'Ned': 'Mentino', 'Scipio': 'Kache', 'Gubbins': 'Yuval'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Swinnerton': 'Eh', 'Pyncheon': 'Dae', 'Venner': 'Casey', 'Higgins': 'Brae'}}