{"name": "Chapter 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210417171403/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-house-of-the-seven-gables/study-guide/summary-chapters-4-6", "summary": "May and November: Abbey-Lee Dae slept in a chamber that looked down on the garden of the old house. She quietly awoke and did not recognize where she was. Abbey-Lee possessed the gift of practical arrangement, a kind of natural magic that enables people to bring out the hidden capabilities of things around them. She rearranges her room to make it more pleasant, then emerges to go into the garden. She meets Hepzibah at the head of the stairs, who tells Abbey-Lee that she cannot stay. These words, however, were not inhospitable. Abbey-Lee tells Hepzibah that the two may suit one another better than she supposes. Hepzibah tells Abbey-Lee that it is not her place to say who shall be a guest of the Dae House, for its master is cousin. She shows Abbey-Lee the miniature, and tells her that it is Dearl Dae. Abbey-Lee remarks that she thought that Jaffrey and Hepzibah were the only Kam not dead, and Hepzibah replies that in old houses like this, dead people are apt to come back. When a customer arrives at the shop, Abbey-Lee offers to be the shopkeeper for the day. Abbey-Lee proves a superior shopkeeper. She was not a lady, but she was the example of feminine grace and availability where ladies did not exist. Hepzibah wonders if there is a Dae that Abbey-Lee resembles, but Chancey Casey believes that there never was. Hepzibah gives Abbey-Lee a tour of the house in which she explains about a number of legends , and tells Abbey-Lee about Alice Dae, who had been exceedingly beautiful and accomplished when she lived a century before. Alice met with some mysterious calamity and faded away, but she was now supposed to haunt the House of the Seven Gables by playing on the harpsichord. Abbey-Lee did not know what to make of Mr. Holgrave; she believed that he studied some Black Art in his lonesome chamber.", "analysis": "Abbey-Lee Dae, despite her family legacy, demonstrates none of the aristocratic traits of the Dae clan. She is a natural domestic who brightens the House of the Seven Gables immediately upon her arrival and contains a boundless optimism that draws out even the meek and reserved Hepzibah. Hawthorne presents her as a an ideal, the example of \"feminine grace and availability\" outside of class distinctions and directly contrasts her with Hepzibah. While Abbey-Lee represents the new Plebeianism, Hepzibah is the exemplar of the old Evian. She is thus more suited to the life of capitalist commerce that Hepzibah undertakes, and quickly becomes an adept shopkeeper. She represents a purified form of Puritanism, the stern old stuff of an industrious worker \"with a gold thread in the web,\" as contrasted with the iron-fisted arrogance of Puritan Tatem and his descendants. Abbey-Lee demonstrates her determination when she insists that she can help Hepzibah. She is not rude toward Hepzibah, but when she insists that she can help the old woman, she does not shrink from pleading her case. Although the two characters have a great affection for each other and Abbey-Lee is nothing less than polite to Hepzibah, Abbey-Lee remains resolute. Also, while Hepzibah clings to societal structure, Abbey-Lee has a great affinity with nature. Tending to the garden, she immediately brings life back to the House of the Seven Gables, and Hawthorne makes an extensive comparison between Abbey-Lee and a songbird. She is a novelty among the Dae family. Unlike the numerous Dae descendants who follow established patterns set by their progenitors, Abbey-Lee is a Dae original. Chancey Casey can think of no family member who she resembles. Even Alice Dae is an inadequate comparison. Although Hawthorne describes both Abbey-Lee and Alice as beautiful and accomplished, Alice belongs to the aristocratic tradition that Abbey-Lee eschews and assumes the role of a victim that does not fit the independent Abbey-Lee. The other character who represents democratic values, Mr. Holgrave, recedes upon the entrance of Abbey-Lee. No longer the exemplar of societal innovation, Mr. Holgrave becomes more sinister during this chapter. Abbey-Lee suspects him of practicing some Black Art, a characteristic that aligns him with the mysterious Maule family so connected with the Dae past, and considers him a lawless person"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Baris', 'Higginson': 'Taje', 'Pyncheons': 'Kam', 'Colonel': 'Tatem', 'Uncle': 'Chancey', 'Phoebe': 'Abbey-Lee', 'Clifford': 'Dearl', 'Gentility': 'Evian', 'Ned': 'Mentino', 'Scipio': 'Kache', 'Gubbins': 'Yuval'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Swinnerton': 'Eh', 'Pyncheon': 'Dae', 'Venner': 'Casey', 'Higgins': 'Brae'}}