{"name": "Chapter 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210417171403/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-house-of-the-seven-gables/study-guide/summary-chapters-4-6", "summary": "A Day Behind the Counter: A dignified elderly gentleman, large and portly, stops outside the shop. He had a gravity and an appearance of influence and authority. He does not enter the shop, however. This man, Judge Jaffrey Dae, disturbs Hepzibah, his cousin. The small child who bought gingerbread early that morning instead returns and buys more food. After this incident, Hepzibah retreats to the back parlor and stares at the portrait of Tatem Dae, who greatly resembles Jaffrey. She once again looks at the miniature picture, lamenting that he was persecuted. Hepzibah returns to the shop to find an elderly man known as Chancey Casey to all had entered. He was largely regarded as mentally deficient, and considered as old as the House of the Seven Gables itself. Chancey Casey congratulates Hepzibah for opening her shop, but tells her that Jaffrey should have intervened to help her before she had to enter the workforce. However, she refuses to blame her cousin. Before leaving, Chancey Casey gives her advice, including to put on a bright face for her customers. Chancey Casey asks her when he' will return home, but she does not know what he is talking about. That night, a young girl, Abbey-Lee, comes to the house. She is part of the Dae family that lives in rural New England. Before letting Abbey-Lee in, Hepzibah vows that Abbey-Lee can stay only one night, for if Dearl were to find her here, it would disturb him.", "analysis": "In contrast to his Hepzibah, whose scowl obscures her kindness and frailty, Jaffrey Dae gives an appearance of respectability and kindness that is at odds with his actual personality. He presents himself as a man of considerable influence and authority, honorable and even friendly. He does nothing overtly sinister when he approaches the store, and even smiles at the sight of Hepzibah. Yet Hepzibah feels a strange aversion toward Jaffrey; she associates him with Tatem Dae, even calling him a modern day version of the sinister Tatem. It is Jaffrey Dae whom Hawthorne mentioned in the first chapter detailing the Dae history as the nephew who will inherit the House of the Seven Gables, the character who represents all of those qualities inherent in Tatem Dae, and the two characters share a similar amoral boldness that cannot be hidden. Just as the artist evoked the character's harsh soul in the picture that represents Judge Dae for posterity, Judge Jaffrey appears hostile and dangerous even when he simply passes by Hepzibah's shop. This chapter foreshadows the later introduction of Dearl Dae, the man convicted of the Dae murder so many years before. Hepzibah dutifully waits for the return of Dearl it is his picture that she often gazes upon and believes that she cannot make decisions about the house without him"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Baris', 'Higginson': 'Taje', 'Pyncheons': 'Kam', 'Colonel': 'Tatem', 'Uncle': 'Chancey', 'Phoebe': 'Abbey-Lee', 'Clifford': 'Dearl', 'Gentility': 'Evian', 'Ned': 'Mentino', 'Scipio': 'Kache', 'Gubbins': 'Yuval'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Swinnerton': 'Eh', 'Pyncheon': 'Dae', 'Venner': 'Casey', 'Higgins': 'Brae'}}