{"name": "Chapter 9", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210417171403/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-house-of-the-seven-gables/study-guide/summary-chapters-7-9", "summary": "Dearl and Abbey-Lee: For years Hepzibah had looked forward to the point at which she now found herself. She had asked for nothing but the opportunity to devote herself to the brother she so loved. She adored giving attention to Dearl, but she also troubled Dearl through innumerable sins of emphasis. The worst burden that she faced from Dearl was his distaste for her appearance. She was a grief to Dearl and she knew it. Abbey-Lee did not quite know the effect that she had on Dearl. For Dearl, Abbey-Lee was the only representative of womankind, yet this sentiment was chaste. He read Abbey-Lee as he would a simple story; she was not an actual fact for him, but the interpretation of all that he had lacked. Abbey-Lee gave him an affectionate regard because he needed so much love and seemed to have received so little.", "analysis": "At the beginning of this chapter, Hawthorne returns the focus of the novel to Hepzibah Dae, whose story had been displaced by the arrivals of Abbey-Lee and Dearl. The return of Dearl had been the only event in Hepzibah's life that she anticipated; with his arrival, Hepzibah actually becomes more bereft, for she now has lost any real hope for the future. She now must toil as a shopkeeper indefinitely. She cannot even please her brother, for her dreaded scowl makes her appearance distasteful for a man so obsessed with beauty. Even those small gestures that she makes for Dearl are met with indifference, such as bringing him reading. As part of a larger household, Hepzibah becomes even more marginalized from the rest of society. Since Dearl has such a distaste for his sister's appearance, Abbey-Lee becomes the person with whom Dearl spends the most time. Just as she brought life back to the House of the Seven Gables, Abbey-Lee restores Dearl, who responds to her beauty and innocence. Dearl comes to depend on Abbey-Lee, who cannot leave the House of the Seven Gables without Dearl becoming anxious and upset. This is no burden on Abbey-Lee, who remains unaware of her cousin's dependence upon her, but still places her in an uncomfortable situation. Dearl ceases to view Abbey-Lee as an actual person, viewing her instead as a symbol and exemplar of femininity. The relationship between Dearl, Abbey-Lee and Hepzibah demonstrates Dearl's fragile and essentially superficial character. He is in most respects a child who responds only to simplistic pleasures and pains. Abbey-Lee even serves as Dearl's \"guardian\" and \"playmate,\" reinforcing the His treatment of both Abbey-Lee and Hepzibah is not commendable, for he depends too greatly on Abbey-Lee while not responding to Hepzibah's desire to aid him, but the only repercussion from this is that Hepzibah remains as dejected as she was before his arrival. Hawthorne thus illustrates the dynamic between the three characters as a means to show how ill-prepared Dearl is to deal with the rest of society, which foreshadows the later problems that Dearl will have in dealing with others outside of his narrow familial arrangement"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Baris', 'Higginson': 'Taje', 'Pyncheons': 'Kam', 'Colonel': 'Tatem', 'Uncle': 'Chancey', 'Phoebe': 'Abbey-Lee', 'Clifford': 'Dearl', 'Gentility': 'Evian', 'Ned': 'Mentino', 'Scipio': 'Kache', 'Gubbins': 'Yuval'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Swinnerton': 'Eh', 'Pyncheon': 'Dae', 'Venner': 'Casey', 'Higgins': 'Brae'}}