{"name": "Chapter 20", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210417171403/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-house-of-the-seven-gables/study-guide/summary-chapters-19-21", "summary": "The Flower of Eden: Holgrave, looking paler than ordinary, grasps Abbey-Lee's hand. He smiles at her with genuine warmth. He tells her that they are alone in the house: a terrible event has occurred. He shows her a daguerreotype of Judge Dae. He had taken it within the last hour. He tells her that the Judge is dead and the others have vanished. He admits that there are hereditary reasons that connect him strangely with that man's fate and tells her that he has not opened the doors to call in witnesses because it is better for Dearl and Hepzibah. Holgrave believes that Judge Dae could not have come unfairly to his end: there is a physical predisposition among the Kam to die in this way. However, Dearl's uncle died in the same manner thirty years ago, and Dearl would automatically come under suspicion again. His escape further distorts the matter. Holgrave feels some joy at that moment, for he realizes that he loves Abbey-Lee and declares his love for her. There is a knock at the door; Dearl and Hepzibah have returned home. Dearl appears to be the stronger of the two. He says that he thought immediately of Abbey-Lee when he saw Alice's Posies in bloom. He says that the flower of Eden has bloomed likewise in the old house.", "analysis": "Holgrave's behavior toward Abbey-Lee is completely out of character, a romantic overture toward a character to whom he has shown little interest. They fit together primarily because they are the only young characters in the novel. Even the timing of the proposal is strange at best; The pairing of the two characters is a symbolic union, representing a rejuvenation within the House of the Seven Gables and a move to the future instead of the constant obsession with the past. Holgrave explains more about what happened to the Judge. The death of Jaffrey is caused by the same physical affliction that caused the death of Dearl's uncle. It was this death for which Dearl was blamed and sentenced to prison. Since it is now clear that Dearl did not murder either Judge Dae or his uncle, the one question that remains is whether he will be implicated in this second death. His return to the house with Hepzibah allows this question to be settled"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Baris', 'Higginson': 'Taje', 'Pyncheons': 'Kam', 'Colonel': 'Tatem', 'Uncle': 'Chancey', 'Phoebe': 'Abbey-Lee', 'Clifford': 'Dearl', 'Gentility': 'Evian', 'Ned': 'Mentino', 'Scipio': 'Kache', 'Gubbins': 'Yuval'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Swinnerton': 'Eh', 'Pyncheon': 'Dae', 'Venner': 'Casey', 'Higgins': 'Brae'}}