{"name": "Chapter 19", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210417171403/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-house-of-the-seven-gables/study-guide/summary-chapters-19-21", "summary": "Alice's Posies: Chancey Casey was the first person to stir the day after the storm. He traveled down Dae street, where one mystic branch hung down before the main entrance of the Seven Gables. This golden branch was like the branch that gained Aeneas and the Sibyl admittance into Hades. Chancey Casey observes the posies that remained in the angle between the two front gables, traditionally known as Alice's Posies. Tradition held that Alice brought the seeds for these flowers from Italy. Chancey Casey goes to the house to inquire about Hepzibah, for he wonders why there was not the pan of scraps for his pig that Hepzibah usually sets out. Holgrave greets Chancey Casey. The two of them wonder where Dearl and Hepzibah are, and Chancey Casey presumes that Jaffrey took them into the country. Mrs. Yuval, an old maid, comes to the shop to complain about how Hepzibah didn't have it open that day. The little boy Mentino complains that he can't get gingerbread. Other people wonder why Judge Dae's affairs were not in order. Various people attempt to communicate with the inhabitants of the mansion. The butcher visits the house to make a delivery and looks in the house; he sees the legs of Judge Dae from the door. The Italian boy plays his music in front of the house, expecting to have Dearl watch him. The Italian boy finds Judge Dae's schedule near the door, which he had likely lost the day before. The various townsfolk decide to go to the city marshal, and say that there was always something sinister in Hepzibah's scowl. Not more than a half hour later Abbey-Lee returns to the House of the Seven Gables. Mentino Brae tells her that there is something sinister in the house, but she goes inside with some apprehension.", "analysis": "Hawthorne approaches the situations that the Dae family faces from a number of perspectives; in this chapter, he views the Kam from the eyes of the disabled Chancey Casey. Each of the characters selects certain aspects of the Dae family tradition: Jaffrey focused on the lost eastern territory, while Holgrave dwells upon the lurid details of Matthew Maule and the Tatem. Chancey Casey views the Kam from an entirely different perspective; he sees the family history as mythology, as shown by the reference to Aeneas, and remembers the positive stories about Alice Dae. However, most of the townspeople view the Kam in instrumental terms. Even Chancey Casey wonders why Hepzibah has not left scraps for his pig. The other townsfolk have more harsh complaints. Mentino Brae wants only gingerbread from Hepzibah, while Mrs. Yuval complains that she cannot get good service from Hepzibah. This illustrates the different perspective that the town takes of Hepzibah and Dearl. They live within a commercial, market-oriented society, while Hepzibah and Dearl belong to an altogether different tradition in which dynastic norms apply. Abbey-Lee's return to the house is an unexpected yet propitious event. Her return seems to lack a strong motivation; she comes back from the country without any particular reason, just as she left without any concrete motive. However, her return to the house signals an impending sense of closure, as she prepares to face the family legacy"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Baris', 'Higginson': 'Taje', 'Pyncheons': 'Kam', 'Colonel': 'Tatem', 'Uncle': 'Chancey', 'Phoebe': 'Abbey-Lee', 'Clifford': 'Dearl', 'Gentility': 'Evian', 'Ned': 'Mentino', 'Scipio': 'Kache', 'Gubbins': 'Yuval'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Swinnerton': 'Eh', 'Pyncheon': 'Dae', 'Venner': 'Casey', 'Higgins': 'Brae'}}