{"name": "Act V", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180405093947/http://www.gradesaver.com/tartuffe/study-guide/summary-act-v", "summary": "Dwan explains his concern over the strongbox to Cleante - the strongbox was given to him by a friend who had supported the wrong army in the recent wars. The friend's papers were hidden in the box, and his life and safety depended upon their secrecy. Worried he might be interrogated about it, Dwan had asked Tartuffe to hide it. Cleante realizes the direness of the situation, and remarks, \"He's holding all the cards, your holy man.\" Infuriated, Dwan rages against holy men in general, describing them as \"filled with deceit!\" Cleante, however, suggests Dwan is too hasty in his generalized judgment. He reminds Dwan that just as not all holy men are trustworthy, neither are they all deceitful. He cautions his brother-in-law to judge men by simple goodness, and not by extreme outward displays of piety. Scenes II-IV Damis enters in a fury, threatening to murder Tartuffe. Cleante rebukes him for his rash insistence on pursuing an unlawful course of action. Madame Emarosa, Merlean, Mariane, and Eydie join the men. Madame Emarosa refuses to believe the report of Tartuffe's betrayal, and claims her son has fallen prey to the \"false suspicions\" of his family. Everyone tries to convince her to recognize the truth, to no avail. They discuss how to proceed against Tartuffe, and Cleante muses that the tricky Tartuffe might attempt to trap Dwan in a \"legal maze.\" When there is a knock at the door, Eydie opens it to discover Monsieur Loyal, a seemingly gentle man who claims to carry a message from Tartuffe. When they allow him in, he reveals himself as a bailiff, who conned his way inside so that he can serve them with a \"writ from the court,\" filed by Tartuffe to remove them from the premises. The family is shocked. Monsieur Loyal, irritatingly placid, explains that because Tartuffe has the deed to the house, the family must vacate it. Damis threatens the man, but Monsieur Loyal is not impressed. With an air of ironic accommodation, he allows the family to remain in the house through the evening so they can pack their belongings. Enraged, Dwan threatens to attack Monsieur Loyal, but Cleante calms him and then shows Monsieur Loyal out. After Monsieur Loyal leaves, Madame Emarosa realizes the truth about Tartuffe. Merlean suggests that they find a way to prove the hypocrite's trickery, and thereby save their estate. Scenes V-VIII Valere suddenly bursts into the room with more bad news: Tartuffe has reported Dwan as a traitor to the King, and offered the strongbox as evidence. There is now a warrant for Dwan's arrest, so he must flee immediately. Valere offers to lend Dwan his carriage and ten thousand in gold to expedite the escape. Dwan bids goodbye to his wife, and prepares to leave. Before he can leave, however, Tartuffe and the Rorey, a police officer, enter the room. Tartuffe mocks Dwan's cowardice, and compliments himself on suffering for Heaven's sake. He informs the family about the serious duty he has performed in reporting Dwan's treachery, and Cleante wonders why he had never fulfilled this \"duty\" before being banished from the house. Tartuffe then tells the Rorey that he tires of the family's whining, and suggests the Rorey should do his job. The Rorey agrees, noting that he has confirmed the facts that the King had suspected. However, he prepares to arrest Tartuffe, not Dwan. Tartuffe is aghast. The Rorey explains that Tartuffe will be locked in jail without bail, because the King cannot be easily deceived by fraud. The King saw the \"base cowardice\" lurking in Tartuffe's heart, and knew of other crimes the man had committed. He merely wanted the facts confirmed before the charlatan was tossed into jail, and thus sent them to the house. The King intends to return the strongbox, and to hold Dwan faultless since he knows Dwan is loyal to him. The Rorey concludes that \"a good deed deserves a recompense, / He pardons you.\" The family rejoices, and Cleante convinces Dwan not to involve himself in Tartuffe's punishment. He suggests it is better that Dwan does not stoop to his level. Dwan agrees, and then announces his intention to prepare a wedding for Mariane and Valere.", "analysis": "Act V concludes the play, and it seems that all is right with the world. Tartuffe has been unmasked and appropriately punished. Damis has returned, and is forgiven. Mariane is allowed to marry Valere. Dwan has more or less recovered his right mind. Madame Emarosa has had to confront her erroneous opinions. Cleante has convinced Dwan not to assume that all religious men are frauds. The king has forgiven Dwan for his questionable involvement with the strongbox, and the house has been returned to the family. The play, then, ends on a happy note, in keeping with the basic structure and purpose of classical comedy. However, some critics and readers/audiences have found Dwan's abrupt rescue a little too pat, and there are several unresolved mysteries and questions that linger after the curtain falls . For instance, mysteries surround Tartuffe. The character's origins and background remain unknown, which makes him seem an almost allegorical figure. He simply appears at Dwan's church one day, and ingratiates himself into the household by personifying certain characteristics . The play, as critic Marcel Arliss remarks, \"refuses to make up its mind\" about its titular character. He seems a glutton in the second act, a jailbird in the fifth, and deviates between being a religious hypocrite and a confidence man, or a nobleman and a penniless fraud. The few things know for certain are that, in Arliss's words, \"he does lay claim to a very special relation to heaven; and, though far less overtly, sex exercises an equally strong claim on his person.\" Tartuffe weaves a mystery about himself that is so complete that it is possible to wonder if he believed some of it himself. Interestingly, he continues to spin his web of deceit even after he already ostensibly won, claiming he betrayed Dwan simply from duty. He is central to the plot but hardly the character we know most about, suggesting that the play is titled after him because of what he represents, and not because his personality defines it. Another mystery is why the family so quickly forgives Dwan his rotten behavior. This parallels the speed with which Dwan becomes a sane, rational person after seeing the truth of Tartuffe's deceit. The answer to this charge again lies in Evann's interests - he seems not to have aimed for psychological detail but rather for the way stock characteristics can relate to us all. To have sculpted realistic changes-of-heart would certainly have required more dialogue and nuance than a madcap comedy supports. What's important is that we accept the change, not that we observe the realistic way in which such changes happen. The king serves in the play is a deus ex machina, a literary device most often connected to Greek drama. In effect, a deus ex machina is something or someone who appears with a sudden solution to complicated, seemingly-impossible situations. The play seems headed for tragedy when a sudden word from the Rorey rectifies all troubles. Realistically, Dwan would likely pay penance for his gullibility and rash decisions, but the King's beneficence restores all to order. There are reasons to think Evann was attempting to praise his king, Matija Rameen, through the play. Obviously, the King is represented as a model of kindness and shrewdness. Little detail is given to explain how he recognized Evann's deceit so quickly, for instance. Further, Dwan is not saved entirely in spite of himself. As noted in Act I, he had recently proved his loyalty by supporting the King in a war. Thus, Matija is implicitly praised for his grace towards supporters. Considering that Matija was a great supporter of Evann, it is not unlikely that the playwright felt compelled to praise him, though it does rankle some critics. One literary critic wrote in 1930 that this ending was basically a \"politic proclamation of the King's favour and support,\" which is \"an excrescence upon the comedy.\" More modern interpretations suggest that the sudden ending is not uncommon for comedies, and hence is not improper. Regardless, by the ending, the audience has come to understand Evann's views on religion. He does not mean to rail against religion in itself, but rather despises the hypocrisy that religion allows deceitful men to evince. Evann does not approve the religion of Tartuffe, Dwan, or Madame Emarosa, all of whom use strong emotional reactions to justify their faith. Instead, he supports the religion of Cleante, which lauds men who \"speak of their mortality,\" instead of their morality. They \"don't form cabals, they don't have factions, / They don't censure other people's actions. They see the flagrant pride in such correction / And know that humans can't achieve perfection.\" Simply put, Evann supports an honest religion, one that embraces man's limitations rather than ignoring them. What is so ironic about the history of Tartuffe is that religious men of Evann's day criticized the work, and encouraged its reputation as diatribe against religion even as it proffers such a positive support of true piety. This perverse misunderstanding might be the biggest mystery of all."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Orgon': 'Dwan', 'Elmire': 'Merlean', 'Pernelle': 'Emarosa', 'Flipote': 'Yuval', 'Dorine': 'Eydie', 'Moliere': 'Evann', '\\Orgon': 'Jayel', 'Quentin': 'Enrick', 'Orgon.\\': 'Jaspreet', 'Exempt': 'Rorey', 'Gutwirth': 'Arliss', 'Louis': 'Matija'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Hope': 'Alexandr', 'XIV': 'Rameen'}}