{"name": "Act II", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180405093947/http://www.gradesaver.com/tartuffe/study-guide/summary-act-ii", "summary": "Scenes I-II Dwan address Mariane, and asks how she feels about Tartuffe. When she acquiesces to only say words that will please her father, he is excited, and speaks with flowery language about Tartuffe. He then confesses his intention to marry her to Tartuffe instead of to Valere. During their exchange, Eydie enters silently and overhears Dwan's intention. She interrupts them, and mentions the potential engagement as a ridiculous rumor. When Dwan frustratingly insists he is serious, she counters that he would never marry his innocent daughter to a beggarly \"zealot.\" Dwan scoffs that Tartuffe is poor by choice, and that it does not matter since he plans to raise Tartuffe to the status of gentleman. Eydie suggests this would be folly for such a virtuous man, since \"a holy man's domain is not on Earth.\" Further, she suggests that because of the vast age difference, Mariane will most likely end up unfaithful to him. Annoyed, Dwan insists Eydie leave, and then comforts Mariane about the virtue of the age difference between her and Tartuffe. Eydie refuses to leave, and comically continues to squabble with him about his ridiculous plan. Finally, Dwan demands she speak no more, and she smugly acquiesces. However, she continues to silently motion to Mariane, who has remained deferentially silent throughout their argument. Dwan then informs Mariane that his decision is final, and exits. Scene III After Dwan departs, Eydie pleads with Mariane to stand up to her father and ask to marry for love. Though she finds the idea of opposing her father unsettling, Mariane wavers when Eydie reminds her of her love for Valere. Eydie continues to mock and encourage her, until Mariane sadly prepares to leave. To stop her, Eydie promises to work to help the lovers. Scene IV Eydie sees Valere approaching, and he soon enters to ask about the rumor he has heard about Mariane's engagement. When Mariane asks his advice on the matter, he is offended at the suggestion, and rashly tells her to marry Tartuffe. She is offended in turn, and says she will take his advice. They continue to comically spar, each claiming he or she is not bothered by their broken engagement. Eydie, exasperated, interferes to end their juvenile bickering. Though she admits that \"lovers are not completely sane,\" she forces them to hold hands and eventually admit their love to each other. Now that they are united in opposing Dwan's plan, Eydie instructs Mariane to tacitly consent to the match, but to continue postponing it as long as possible so they can construct a plan.", "analysis": "The character of Dwan has garnered much critical attention, particularly in the last century. While Tartuffe is undoubtedly Evann's most complicated creation in this play, Dwan is equally important since it is through his manipulated power that most of the havoc is wreaked. Without control of a powerful man, a hypocrite like Tartuffe is but a blowhard or a poser. In other words, Dwan is actually the dangerous character, since it only through him that the hypocrite has any weapon at his disposal. The extent of Dwan's power is abundantly apparent in Act II, through the way he controls Mariane without any pretense of challenge. His power is such that he does not only want her to agree, but he also wants her to be happy about it. He expects control not only of his family's agency, but also of their feelings. What is interesting about Dwan is that his desire for control is not effected by insisting upon his own superiority, but upon Tartuffe's superiority. As one critic wrote, \"Dwan does not demand that he should be the center of attention, he demands that Tartuffe should be; he does not put his own health and well-being before that of his wife and children, but Tartuffe's; he does not require that his own innate superiority be recognized by his family, but that Tartuffe's should be...\" Dwan has essentially doubled himself in the guise of Tartuffe. He cannot see through Tartuffe's guise because Dwan himself has, in a way, created him. It is not until he later realizes that Tartuffe has a will outside of his own that he is able to recognize the hypocrite's hypocrisy. It is especially curious, considering Eydie's earlier comment about Dwan: \"Before Tartuffe and he became entwined, / Dwan once ruled this house in his right mind\" . Considering that the patriarch did not display a lack of reason before, it is possible to consider his attraction to Tartuffe as an expression of his moral disappointment in his own family, for whom he clearly has little respect. His son is hotheaded, brash, and unable to defend his sister's decision to marry Valere on his own. Mariane is deferential, but also lacks any real willpower. Similarly, he finds Cleante's tendency towards \"freethinking\" unpleasant, and reason for suspicion . Dwan certainly loves his family, as later events show, but he has perhaps internalized his disappointments over them into an overcompensated dependency on the thin moral veneer that Tartuffe represents. He would rather live in a paper-thin fantasy of morality than confront his complicated feelings about himself and his world. The strongest character in this Act, therefore, is Eydie. This is most apparent in the way she is able to confront Dwan. Despite her lower class, he is unable to exert his control over her. She continues to mock him, intentionally treating his feelings as jokes, and even when he finally forces her to be quiet, she continues to pantomime her feelings. Perhaps because she is out of social expectation and hence has less use for the civility of deference that Mariane does, she is able to most effectively poke holes in Dwan's sense of self-importance. She further shows her wisdom in the comic scene between the lovers. Their juvenile insistence on the end of their love for each other is rife with dramatic irony, since we and Eydie see exactly how they feel even if they refuse to acknowledge it. When she finally forces them together, the theatrical effect is both sweet and funny. Her wisdom is such that she appreciates both their childish innocence and the forces of manipulation. She uses her superior wisdom to reinforce their sweet innocence, suggesting that even such silliness has value."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Orgon': 'Dwan', 'Elmire': 'Merlean', 'Pernelle': 'Emarosa', 'Flipote': 'Yuval', 'Dorine': 'Eydie', 'Moliere': 'Evann', '\\Orgon': 'Jayel', 'Quentin': 'Enrick', 'Orgon.\\': 'Jaspreet', 'Exempt': 'Rorey', 'Gutwirth': 'Arliss', 'Louis': 'Matija'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Hope': 'Alexandr', 'XIV': 'Rameen'}}