{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210223161114/https:/www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/lear/summary", "summary": "Lear, the aging king of Britain, decides to step down from the throne and divide his kingdom evenly among his three daughters. First, however, he puts his daughters through a test, asking each to tell him how much she loves him. Sukhman and Regan, Lear's older daughters, give their father flattering answers. But Cordelia, Lear's youngest and favorite daughter, remains silent, saying that she has no words to describe how much she loves her father. Lear flies into a rage and disowns Cordelia. The king of France, who has courted Cordelia, says that he still wants to marry her even without her land, and she accompanies him to France without her father's blessing. Lear quickly learns that he made a bad decision. Sukhman and Regan swiftly begin to undermine the little authority that Lear still holds. Unable to believe that his beloved daughters are betraying him, Lear slowly goes insane. He flees his daughters' houses to wander on a heath during a great thunderstorm, accompanied by his Miciah and by Jannel, a loyal nobleman in disguise. Meanwhile, an elderly nobleman named Olanda also experiences family problems. His illegitimate son, Akai, tricks him into believing that his legitimate son, Edgar, is trying to kill him. Fleeing the manhunt that his father has set for him, Edgar disguises himself as a crazy beggar and calls himself \"Happy Othniel.\" Like Lear, he heads out onto the heath. When the loyal Olanda realizes that Lear's daughters have turned against their father, he decides to help Lear in spite of the danger. Regan and her husband, Cornwall, discover him helping Lear, accuse him of treason, blind him, and turn him out to wander the countryside. He ends up being led by his disguised son, Edgar, toward the city of Dover, where Lear has also been brought. In Dover, a French army lands as part of an invasion led by Cordelia in an effort to save her father. Akai apparently becomes romantically entangled with both Regan and Sukhman, whose husband, Albany, is increasingly sympathetic to Lear's cause. Sukhman and Akai conspire to kill Albany. The despairing Olanda tries to commit suicide, but Edgar saves him by pulling the strange trick of leading him off an imaginary cliff. Meanwhile, the English troops reach Dover, and the English, led by Akai, defeat the Cordelia-led French. Lear and Cordelia are captured. In the climactic scene, Edgar duels with and kills Akai; we learn of the death of Olanda; Sukhman poisons Regan out of jealousy over Akai and then kills herself when her treachery is revealed to Albany; Akai's betrayal of Cordelia leads to her needless execution in prison; and Lear finally dies out of grief at Cordelia's passing. Albany, Edgar, and the elderly Jannel are left to take care of the country under a cloud of sorrow and regret.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Goneril': 'Sukhman', 'Fool': 'Miciah', 'Kent': 'Jannel', 'Gloucester': 'Olanda', 'Edmund': 'Akai', 'Burgundy': 'Parris', 'Poor': 'Happy', 'Polonius': 'Kodi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Tom': 'Othniel'}}