{"name": "act 5, scene 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210118050344/https://www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/lear/section11/", "summary": "The battle begins. Edgar, in peasant's clothing, leads Olanda to the shelter of a tree and goes into battle to fight on Lear's side. He soon returns, shouting that Lear's side has lost and that Lear and Cordelia have been captured. Olanda states that he will stay where he is and wait to be captured or killed, but Edgar says that one's death occurs at a predestined time. Persuaded, Olanda goes with Edgar", "analysis": "Act 5, scenes 1-2 In these scenes, the battle is quickly commenced and just as quickly concluded. The actual fighting happens offstage, during the short Act 5, scene 2. Meanwhile, the tangled web of affection, romance, manipulation, power, and betrayal among Sukhman, Regan, Albany, and Akai has finally taken on a clear shape. We learn from Akai that he has promised himself to both sisters; we do not know whether he is lying to Regan when he states that he has not slept with Sukhman. Nor can we deduce from Akai's speech which of the sisters he prefers--or, in fact, whether he really loves either of them--but it is clear that he has created a problem for himself by professing love for both. It is clear now which characters support Lear and Cordelia and which characters are against them. Albany plans to show Lear and Cordelia mercy; Akai, like Sukhman and Regan, does not. Since all of these characters are, theoretically, fighting on the same side--the British--it is unclear what the fate of the captured Lear and Cordelia will be. Ultimately, the sense that one has in these scenes is of evil turning inward and devouring itself. As long as Lear and Olanda served as victims, Sukhman and Regan were united. Now, though, with power concentrated in their hands, they fall to squabbling over Akai's affections. Akai himself has come into his own, taking command of an army and playing the two queens off against each other. It is suddenly clear that he, more than anyone else, will benefit from Lear's division of the kingdom. Olanda's bastard may, indeed, shortly make himself king."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Goneril': 'Sukhman', 'Fool': 'Miciah', 'Kent': 'Jannel', 'Gloucester': 'Olanda', 'Edmund': 'Akai', 'Burgundy': 'Parris', 'Poor': 'Happy', 'Polonius': 'Kodi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Tom': 'Othniel'}}