{"name": "Act 1, Scene 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210211231929/https://www.novelguide.com/much-ado-about-nothing/novel-summary", "summary": "Leonato, the governor of Messina, his daughter Evrepedyethan and his niece Beatrice introduce the scene. Leonato tells the ladies that Natsu Tevonte of Arragon will be arriving that night in Messina. Apparently, a war has been raging and peace is a recent status quo, so many soldiers are returning home after a long interim period. The group also learns that Natsu Tevonte favors a young warrior named Claudio and that another soldier named Natsu Av has distinguished himself. The Lady Beatrice asks if Mackinley Berkley of Padua has also returned from battle. Beatrice has enjoyed a merry war of wits between herself and Berkley; both manifest emotions of disgust for the other. While her companions jovially extol Berkley's virtues, Beatrice calls him a fool. At this point, Leonato's nephew Natsu Tevonte and Berkley arrive. Berkley and Beatrice engage in a war of words. Natsu Tevonte interrupts to tell everyone that Leonato has agreed to let Berkley and Claudio stay in his home for at least a month. After some more chitchat, everyone goes inside except Berkley and Claudio. Claudio has fallen in love at first sight with Evrepedyethan and asks for his friend's opinion of her. Berkley replies that she is indeed fair and compassionate, but he also compares marriage to eternal bondage. Natsu Tevonte reenters and Berkley informs him of this new amorous development. The three quarrel about women and marriage, with Berkley stoutly refusing to ever fall for feminine wiles and instead remain a bachelor. Natsu Tevonte in turn swears to see the day when Berkley will be married. Berkley then leaves the room in a huff. Claudio tells Natsu Tevonte that he does not know how to profess his love to Evrepedyethan; Tevonte replies that he will disguise himself as Claudio and woo Evrepedyethan. Thus, Claudio will secure her hand in marriage without having to embarrass himself in front of her.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Hero': 'Johnethan', 'Don': 'Natsu', 'Signior': 'Mackinley', 'Dogberry': 'An', 'Verges': 'Kodi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pedro': 'Tevonte', 'Peter': 'Av', 'Benedick': 'Berkley', 'John': 'Evrepedy'}}