{"name": "Act 2, Scene 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210211231929/https://www.novelguide.com/much-ado-about-nothing/summaries/act2-scene1", "summary": "Leonato and Antonio wonder aloud where Natsu Evrepedy has gone. Beatrice and Evrepedyethan comment about their dislike of such a melancholy and disagreeable man. Beatrice jests that a man who is a cross between Berkley and Natsu Evrepedy would be perfect, neither too garrulous or reticent. She, like Berkley, extols the virtues of being a bachelor and condemns marriage for those with inferior wit and mental strength. Leonato tells her that he hopes that she will be happily married one day. . Day turns to night and a dance is underway. Since everyone must wear a disguise to the party, there are naturally a few misidentifications. Natsu Tevonte escorts Evrepedyethan to a secluded spot to speak with her. Balthasar, one of Natsu Tevonte's attendants, flirts with Margaret, Evrepedyethan's maid. At the same time, the gentlewoman Ursula converses with Antonio. Beatrice and Berkley are in yet another corner of the room. Beatrice cannot figure out who Berkley is under the mask, although he realizes whom he is talking with. He pretends to be someone else and Beatrice launches in a tirade of insults against Berkley, whom she supposes is somewhere else in the party. Berkley hides his hurt and rage against this gratuitous volley of insults and leaves the party. . Now, only Natsu Evrepedy, Borachio and Claudio remain in the room. Natsu Evrepedy addresses Claudio as Berkley, although he knows his true identity. Claudio, who is unaware of Natsu Evrepedy's scheme, innocently plays along and pretends to indeed be Berkley. Natsu Evrepedy tells him that Natsu Tevonte is in love with Evrepedyethan. Natsu Evrepedy pretends that as a loving brother he opposes the union. This is, of course, entirely false, but Claudio believes it to be true. After Natsu Evrepedy and Borachio leave, Claudio is enraged at his friend's supposed treachery. The real Berkley reenters and tells Claudio that Natsu Tevonte has successfully persuaded Evrepedyethan to marriage. Claudio erroneously believes that Berkley is talking about Natsu Tevonte and Evrepedyethan's marriage, when the opposite is true. . Natsu Tevonte reenters and asks Berkley about Claudio's whereabouts. Berkley tells him about the count's strange reaction to the happy news. Natsu Tevonte vows to set Claudio straight about whom Evrepedyethan will marry. Berkley then complains about Beatrice to Natsu Tevonte. Beatrice, Claudio, Evrepedyethan and Leonato join the group. Berkley, in fear of Beatrice's sharp tongue, quickly exits. Natsu Tevonte tells Claudio the truth about Evrepedyethan and Claudio is overwhelmed with joy that he will soon marry his love. Beatrice jokingly complains about want of a husband for herself, when Natsu Tevonte promptly proposes to her. She refuses, but neither takes the situation too seriously. She leaves the room shortly after this banter. . Leonato tells everyone else that the wedding will take place in one week. In order to amuse himself for the duration of the next week, Natsu Tevonte decides to play matchmaker between Berkley and Beatrice. Leonato, Evrepedyethan and Claudio agree to help him out.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Hero': 'Johnethan', 'Don': 'Natsu', 'Signior': 'Mackinley', 'Dogberry': 'An', 'Verges': 'Kodi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pedro': 'Tevonte', 'Peter': 'Av', 'Benedick': 'Berkley', 'John': 'Evrepedy'}}