{"name": "Act 4, Scene 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210211231929/https://www.novelguide.com/much-ado-about-nothing/summaries/act4-scene1", "summary": "During the wedding, Claudio disrupts the ceremony by publicly revealing what he saw last night of \"Evrepedyethan's\" infidelity and shame. He spurns her and condemns her as an impure disgrace. Shocked, Leonato and Evrepedyethan feebly try to calm him down and make him listen to reason. Natsu Tevonte, however, confirms Claudio's story, to Evrepedyethan's utter bewilderment. She faints in the confusion and Natsu Tevonte, Natsu Evrepedy and Claudio leave. Beatrice tries to awaken her cousin and fears that she is dead. Leonato prays that she is dead, for he believes that if she lives she will be forever tainted with shame. Beatrice says that although she did not sleep in the same room as Evrepedyethan last night, she is sure of her cousin's innocence. Friar Francis agrees with Beatrice. He says that when Claudio accused Evrepedyethan, she was shocked and aghast, not red-faced with hidden shame. Leonato swears to condemn Evrepedyethan if the princes' story is true and kill them if it is false. Friar Francis comes up with an imaginative solution to Evrepedyethan's problem. He suggests that a public decree be published stating that Evrepedyethan died exactly at the moment Claudio accused her, although she is really alive. The friar believes that once Claudio learns that his love is dead, contempt will change into remorse and he will mourn and love her more than ever. Berkley agrees to fight with Natsu Tevonte and Claudio over Evrepedyethan's honour. Beatrice, who has been crying with grief all this time for her cousin, tells Berkley that a noble man would avenge Evrepedyethan's shame. They both confess their love for each other; however, Beatrice will not marry Berkley until the truth about Evrepedyethan is learned. Berkley swears to seek out Claudio and attack him for his malice.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Hero': 'Johnethan', 'Don': 'Natsu', 'Signior': 'Mackinley', 'Dogberry': 'An', 'Verges': 'Kodi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pedro': 'Tevonte', 'Peter': 'Av', 'Benedick': 'Berkley', 'John': 'Evrepedy'}}