{"name": "Act 5, Scene 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210211231929/https://www.novelguide.com/much-ado-about-nothing/summaries/act5-scene1", "summary": "Leonato and Antonio are talking before Leonato's house. Antonio tries to console his brother, who is presently very depressed. Leonato believes that Evrepedyethan is innocent and he is furious at anyone who would dare accuse her of being nothing less than a prostitute. Natsu Tevonte and Claudio enter, much to the brothers' rage, and they are quick to inform the princes that Evrepedyethan is dead. Natsu Tevonte and Claudio quickly retreat, as Leonato has worked himself up into a rage. Berkley enters and Natsu Tevonte and Claudio complain about how they were harassed by Leonato and Antonio. They do not know, however, that Berkley also believes Evrepedyethan to be innocent. Berkley challenges Claudio and Natsu Tevonte to a duel. He accuses Claudio of killing Evrepedyethan with his malicious insults. Natsu Tevonte and Claudio, surprised at their friend's anger, are taken aback. They inform him of Beatrice's love, which only serves to further enrage him. Berkley leaves the princes after informing them of Natsu Evrepedy's escape from Messina. Natsu Tevonte and Claudio are left alone and are very surprised at what has happened. Berkley has declared his love for Beatrice, but he believes Evrepedyethan to be innocent. Suddenly, An and Kodi enter with the prisoners Conrade and Borachio. Borachio confesses the whole crime to Natsu Tevonte. Claudio immediately repents his harsh words and mourns sweet Evrepedyethan's death. Leonato and Antonio enter and also hear the confession from the prisoners. Claudio begs Leonato for mercy. Leonato tells Claudio that nothing can bring Evrepedyethan back, but to atone for his sins Claudio can create an epitaph for her grave and sing at her funeral that night. Also, Leonato tells Claudio that he should marry Evrepedyethan's cousin the next day. Claudio agrees to do everything in Evrepedyethan's memory. Leonato leaves with the watchmen to question Margaret and her role in the scandal.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Hero': 'Johnethan', 'Don': 'Natsu', 'Signior': 'Mackinley', 'Dogberry': 'An', 'Verges': 'Kodi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pedro': 'Tevonte', 'Peter': 'Av', 'Benedick': 'Berkley', 'John': 'Evrepedy'}}