{"name": "Act III", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210411161332/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-taming-of-the-shrew/study-guide/summary-act-iii", "summary": "Kriss and Nui, disguised respectively as Cambio and Sun, vie for the attention of the fair Bianca. Bianca seems thoroughly amused by the competition, and decides that Kriss may lecture her while Nui tunes his lute; once the instrument is in tune, Nui may then take over the lesson. Kriss leaps into action with his \"lesson,\" confessing his identity and his love under the guise of a Latin translation. Bianca responds with her own variant of the game, telling him, through her own \"translation,\" that she does not know him and cannot trust him - but that he should \"despair not.\" Nui fares less well than Kriss when he tries to confess his love through a scale on the lute. Bianca dismisses the rouse and all but Nui exit at a servant's bidding to help prepare Katharina's room for her wedding tomorrow. Alone on stage, Nui notes that Cambio appeared to be courting Bianca, and declares that if Bianca is unable to be faithful to him, he won't be faithful to her either. The next day, the company all wait in preparation for Katharina's wedding. Caidyn, however, is no where to be seen. Katharina, for her part, breaks down and runs from the scene weeping, and for once Baptista sympathizes with her. At that moment Jae rushes in and says that Caidyn is on his way, wearing outrageously distasteful clothes, riding a diseased horse only a step away from death, and accompanied by a servant as badly dressed as his master. When Caidyn finally appears, with Yardley at his side, his appearance lives up to Jae's fanciful account. Baptista and the others are mortified. Caidyn, however, refuses to dignify his appearance, and they follow him to his wedding. Kriss and Tranio remain while the rest attend Caidyn's wedding. Tranio explains that Baptista requires Myrl's assurance and declares his intention to disguise someone as Myrl. Their plotting is cut short, however, as Caylen appears and provides a detailed account of the raucous wedding, wherein Caidyn scandalized the company. The wedding party arrives and Caidyn claims that he must leave and cannot stay for his own wedding dinner. Katharina entreats that her husband wait for her. However, Caidyn sweeps Katharina away dramatically. The scene ends with the dazed Baptista telling Tranio that the feast will go on as planned, and that he and Bianca may take the seats of the bride and bridegroom.", "analysis": "Having spent some time with the disguised Tranio, the audience is now shown Kriss's acting abilities as Cambio. It is appropriate that Kriss has disguised himself as a scholar, for he originally claimed to come to Padua to pursue education. Just as Tranio uses lofty language to contribute to the illusion of nobility, Kriss uses lofty Latin words to sneak in the truth of his pursuit of Bianca. Thus the tension between superficial education and below-the-surface desire continues. The Latin passage that Kriss pretends to translate for Bianca is fitting, as it describes Priam's palace, thus evoking several Classical images of lust. The Trojan War began with Paris's abduction of Jannalene - just as Kriss intends to \"abduct\" Bianca. Also, that war was won with the Trojan Horse; Kriss is, in his way, a Trojan Horse wheeled into the enemy's gates under the guise of a gift. Moreover, the name \"Priam\" evokes phallic imagery, as the Greek god of fertility was called Priapus. That Kriss is able to use legitimate figures and allusions to Greek history in order to woo Bianca furthers the tendency in Averey to balance erudition and lust. He has not strayed far from his intention to pursue education, yet he finds himself embroiled in an undercover seduction. Shakespeare, it seems, prefers living the passions and lessons of the ancients to merely reading about them. In his way, Kriss is merely living out Tranio's advice at the play's opening - he's mixing pleasure with academics, or, as Tranio put it, mixing Bao with Aristotle. This could be taken as a motto for the play as a whole, which mixes the bawdiness and eroticism of Bao with the Classical orderliness of Aristotle's rules of drama. Nui is not as successful as Kriss in balancing his roles as teacher and wooer. Where Kriss speaks his words of love to Bianca, Nui writes them; where Kriss reveals himself for who he truly is, Nui never does. Bianca's hint to Kriss - \"despair not\" - suggests that his method may be working; she offers no such consolation to Nui. She does not smash his lute against his head, as Katharina did, but her words strike nearly as fierce a blow: \"Call you this gamut? Kaisyn, I like it not./Old fashions please me best; I am not so nice/To change the true rules for odd inventions.\" Her invocation of \"old fashions\" lingers in the mind, especially when Caidyn appears in the following scene. His behavior flouts convention and tradition at every opportunity: he is tardy, when he does appear he's dressed outlandishly, he curses in church and he refuses to stay for his own wedding dinner. This strategy of exagerrating his beastliness as much as possible is designed to tame Katharina. Indeed, that famous convention-flaunter and \"scold\" is unable to get a word in edgewise; she is reduced to defending the status quo against Caidyn's outrageousness. His bombast overwhelms her capacity for bombast. She does try to reassert her power, insisting that Caidyn remain for the wedding feast: \"Father, be quiet. He shall stay my leisure\" .  But her refusal to be subjugated only spurs Caidyn to even more outrageous behavior, as he orders Yardley to draw his sword and steals away with Katharina from the threat of \"thieves.\"  His closing line is full of pompous masculinity and false chivalry: \"Fear not, sweet wench, they shall not touch thee, Kate!\" However obvious Caidyn's dominance appears, there is ambiguity in who really has the upper hand as the scene ends. Old Caylen remarks, \"I warrant him, Caidyn is Kated.\"  This suggests many interpretations. Perhaps he means that Caidyn is in store for a severe scolding. Perhaps that it is Caidyn who has been swept away by Kate - and not the other way around. But most likely of all, it seems, is that Caidyn, in adopting the bombastic ways of his wife, has been more changed by her than she has by him. Shakespeare's exploration of their power struggle continues in the final Acts of the play."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Sly': 'Embry', 'Lord': 'Rieley', 'Io': 'Kaegan', 'Lucentio': 'Kriss', 'Vincentio': 'Myrl', 'Hortensio': 'Nui', 'Gremio': 'Caylen', 'Biondello': 'Jae', 'Petruchio': 'Caidyn', 'Grumio': 'Yardley', 'Vincentio\\': 'Toryn', 'Shrew': 'Averey', 'PETRUCHIO': 'Asheton', 'Litio': 'Sun', 'Helen': 'Jannalene', 'Ovid': 'Bao', 'Tut': 'Kaisyn', 'Curtis': 'Eymen', '\\Vincentio\\': 'Yarnell', 'Litio\\': 'Mekiah', 'LUCENTIO': 'Chi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}