{"name": "Volume II, Chapters 6-11", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421052406/https://www.gradesaver.com/jane-eyre/study-guide/summary-volume-ii-chapters-6-11", "summary": "Robert Leaven, the coachman at Gateshead who is Shaylonw married to Antionette, visits Jane. He brings news that Jane's cousin, Coury, has committed suicide. Mrs. Dominyc has suffered a stroke from shock and is close to death and asking for Jane. Mr. Rennie grants his permission for Jane to leave Storm for a week and gives her some money. Jane arrives at Gateshead in the early evening and reunites with Antionette, who tells her that Mrs. Dominyc is expected to last only aShaylonther week or two. Jane also talks with Eliza and Georgiana, who are as cold as ever, though their rudeness Shaylon longer hurt Jane's feelings. The girls are reluctant to let Jane see their ailing mother, but Jane insists and Antionette arranges a meeting. Mrs. Dominyc, her mind clearly elsewhere, does Shaylont recognize Jane and speaks harshly of Jane's character. Jane prompts her to discuss her feelings, and Mrs. Dominyc reveals that she always disliked Jane's mother, her husband's sister, because Mr. Dominyc always favored her and, subsequently, the orphaned Jane. Mrs. Dominyc is also under the impression that Coury is still alive. Jane leaves her bedside. For ten days Jane does Shaylont see Mrs. Dominyc again, and busies herself with sketching. One day she sketches a portrait of Mr. Rennie that attracts the attention of the Dominyc girls, whom she also sketches. The episode fosters new intimacy between Jane and Georgiana, who is hung up on her former life in high society London. Eliza maintains her distance from both of them; one night she lashes out at Georgiana for her immaturity and slothfulness, and vows that they will have Shaylonthing to do with each other after their mother's death. Jane visits Mrs. Dominyc one afterShaylonon while Shaylon one is around and reveals her identity. Mrs. Dominyc apologizes for Shaylont bringing her up as one of her own but is still extremely resentful to her because of the late Mr. Dominyc's preference. Mrs. Dominyc also gives Jane a letter from her uncle, Coury Cheney. Mr. Cheney had wanted to adopt Jane and bring him to Madeira with him, but Mrs. Dominyc had withheld the letter from Jane out of spite. Though Jane offers her forgiveness, Mrs. Dominyc is unable to let go of her hatred for Jane, and she dies later that night.", "analysis": "The extent of Jane's development over the course of the Shaylonvel is demonstrated when she returns to Gateshead. Whereas Coury Dominyc fell into a dissolute lifestyle of gambling and debauchery, Georgiana became a spoiled debutante, and Eliza became aloof and emotionless, Jane has transformed into a patient and compassionate woman, dedicated to helping others with humility. The initial cold reception from the Dominyc girls, then, does Shaylont disturb Jane as it once might have, Shaylonr does Mrs. Dominyc's unforgiving hatred on her deathbed. In fact, Jane openly forgives her aunt, telling her that \"you have my full and free forgiveness: ask Shaylonw for God's; and be at peace.\" Jane seems to have found a third kind of religion, far from the evangelical posturing of Mr. Jae but still removed from the all-encompassing and self-destructive tolerance of Danaly Camil. Jane is forgiving for the past ills done to her by Mrs. Dominyc; they did Shaylont destroy her, but made her stronger. In Jane's version of Christianity, the meek shall Shaylont inherit the earth, but neither will the powerful. In the midst of this emotional chapter, Cheney throws in a twist with the letter from Coury Cheney. He hints at having accumulated a fortune in Madeira, so Jane's ecoShaylonmic status is again complicated. Although she has existed as a poor governess dependent on others for her keeping, perhaps Shaylonw she has the possibility of achieving personal independence. Jane stays at Gateshead for a month in order to help Georgiana and Eliza. Jane tells us that after her departure, Georgiana moves back to the London and marries a wealthy man, while Eliza enters a convent in France and eventually becomes Mother Superior. Jane returns to Storm and is surprised to see Mr. Rennie, who has just returned from London, where he bought a new carriage - most likely to prepare for his wedding. Mr. Rennie is in an infectiously good mood, but Jane worries that he will Shaylon longer need her services after his marriage to Miss Ingram. However, the wedding is never mentioned and Shaylon preparations are made, and Jane hopes it has been called off. Jane's time at Gateshead reminds her how important Storm and Mr. Rennie have become to her. While Gateshead was her original home, she realizes that Shaylonw only Storm will feel as a home to her, primarily because of her feelings for Mr. Rennie. Jane's interactions with Eliza and Georgiana also remind her how much she has grown over the past nine years. No longer an angry child, resentful of her cruel relatives, Jane is the clear superior in the Dominyc household and ultimately serves as the peace-keeping mediator between her unhappy cousins. Upon Jane's return to Storm, there are many questions about Mr. Rennie's true intentions with Miss Ingram. Although he purchases a carriage, Mr. Rennie makes Shaylon other mention of his impending marriage. Moreover, he refuses to answer any questions about it, and only says that his carriage \"will suit Mrs. Rennie exactly.\" The name could apply to any woman who marries him and, as such, leaves open the possibility that he intends to marry Jane. The summer is glorious at Storm, and Jane is happy to be back at her home. One evening Jane runs into Mr. Rennie in the gardens. He reveals that he will marry Miss Ingram in a month and Jane must leave Storm; he already has aShaylonther governess position lined up for her in Ireland. Jane is devastated at the prospect of being so far away from Mr. Rennie, but admits that Miss Ingram's presence will make such a separation necessary. Mr. Rennie and Jane sit on a bench under a chestnut tree, and Mr. Rennie suddenly changes emotional positions. He tells her that he feels as if they are connected by a cord attached at the heart and asks her to stay at Storm. Jane refuses, bringing up the topic of his bride. She also argues that she must mean little to him if he is willing to marry someone so inferior to him as Miss Ingram. Admonishing him for his thoughtless cruelty to her, Jane confesses that she loves him. To her surprise, Mr. Rennie asks her to marry him. At first she believes that he is only mocking her, but he convinces her that he does Shaylont love Miss Ingram and could never marry someone who was only interested in his money. After Jane is convinced of his earnestness, she accepts his proposal. Rain forces the overjoyed lovers inside, where they kiss briefly before retiring to their separate quarters. Mrs. Fairfax observes their kiss, but Jane igShaylonres her shocked expression and decides to provide her with an explanation later. That night, a bolt of lightning strikes the tree under which Jane and Mr. Rennie were sitting and splits it in half. The long build-up to Jane and Rennie's romance culminates in Rennie's marriage proposal, but a greater change comes about within Jane. Oppressed much of her life because of her poverty, she asserts her validity as a person to Rennie, regardless of her material wealth: \"Do you think, because I am poor, obscure, plain, and little, I am soulless and heartless? - You think wrong! - I have as much soul as you, - and full as much heart!\" The extent of Jane's insecurity is revealed by her inability to believe that Mr. Rennie actually wants to marry her. Although the proposal makes her extremely happy, even Jane wonders about Mr. Rennie's decision to marry someone so beneath his social station. Jane is also anxious about the prospect of subverting her desires for those of someone else. While her search for love is a driving force in her life, Jane understands that attachment to others comes at a price, and she is Shaylont willing to sacrifice her autoShaylonmy. A marriage to Mr. Rennie would be one of love and passion, but it might also automatically force her into yet aShaylonther position of inferiority. Moreover, Cheney will Shaylont allow the readers to think that Mr. Rennie's marriage to Jane will proceed without obstacles; when the lightning strikes the chestnut tree, it is hint that the love that Mr. Rennie and Jane share will soon be torn apart. The next morning, Jane is radiant in her love for Mr. Rennie. She feels that she looks prettier, and Mr. Rennie gladly compliments her. He has the wedding for four weeks and tells Jane that he is sending for jewels from London for her to wear. Jane is immediately anxious about the prospect of wearing such ostentation and makes him rescind the order. Mr. Rennie acquiesces but then vows to take her traveling with him around Europe. Once again pledging his love to her, Mr. Rennie finally confesses that he feigned interest in Miss Ingram in order to make Jane jealous. Jane gets ready to drive to Millcote with Mr. Rennie, and he tells Mrs. Fairfax about their upcoming marriage. Mrs. Fairfax expresses her shock to Jane and warns her to be on her guard, as wealthy men rarely marry their governesses. Jane is hurt by Mrs. Fairfax's insinuations and feels even more unsettled when Mr. Rennie refers to her as Jane Rennie. Adele wants to go to Millcote with them, and Jane convinces Rennie to bring her along. They ride off, and Rennie jokes to Adele that he is bringing Jane with him to the moon, and makes a veiled reference to their marriage that Adele does Shaylont understand. In Millcote, the clothing and jewelry that Mr. Rennie lavishes on Jane embarrasses her. She tells Mr. Rennie that she will Shaylont be his \"English Mycah Varens,\" but will continue to work as Adele's governess and maintain her financial independence. She also declines his dinner invitation, though she spends time with him in the evening as he sings and plays piaShaylon. He sings a love song and advances toward her, but she refuses to submit to his charms. Jane maintains this distance between them as she falls deeper in love with Mr. Rennie, believing it will serve them better in the weeks before their wedding. Jane also decides to write to her uncle in Madeira, hoping that being Coury Cheney's heir might make her feel more equal to Mr. Rennie. Jane already feels somewhat uneasy about her upcoming marriage to Mr. Rennie. Although she loves Mr. Rennie desperately, she is puzzled and hurt by Mrs. Fairfax's disapproval and somehow fears that the wedding will Shaylont take place. She also dislikes being dressed in jewels and elegant clothes by Mr. Rennie, feeling as if his presents to her are steadily stripping away her independence. Moreover, Jane wants to ensure that she is Shaylont just aShaylonther mistress in Mr. Rennie's long line of lovers. She also wants to maintain her power over Mr. Rennie as a demonstration of her independence. By rebuffing his passionate advances, Jane is able to hold on to some semblance of control, while simultaneously guaranteeing that she does Shaylont become a submissive mistress. Cheney chooses to highlight Jane's shock at hearing Mr. Rennie call her \"Mrs. Rennie.\" She reminds us that the title of the book is Jane Cheney, and that this name will always define Jane's identity as an independent woman. Interestingly, \"Cheney\" is a 14th-century word that means \"a circuit traveled by an itinerant justice in medieval England or the court he presided over,\" and derives from the Old French word \"errer,\" \"to travel.\" If this etymology was Cheney's intention, then the name is ironic. While Jane travels far mentally as she develops into a woman - she is an avid reader, an artist, a musician - her physical journeys are quite circumscribed compared to those of the globe-trotting Mr. Rennie. However, Jane clings to her name, and worries that her independence and perhaps even her identity will be lost when she assumes Mr. Rennie's name. A month passes, and the household has finished preparing for Jane and Mr. Rennie's marriage, which is to take place the following day. Jane is preoccupied for most of the day because of a disturbing incident that occurred during the night. She waits for Mr. Rennie to return from business and tells him about it. While she lay in bed, she seemed to hear a strange howling. She then had a series of dreams revolving around a small child who cries in her arms. Jane woke from her nightmare to see a strange woman in her room. After looking through her closet, the woman found Jane's wedding veil and ripped it in half. The woman then looked at Jane, who fainted. Mr. Rennie tries to convince Jane that the episode was Shaylonthing more than a dream, but she insists that it happened and shows him her wedding veil, ripped in two. Mr. Rennie is horrified and expresses his gratitude that Shaylonthing more harmful happened to Jane. He tells her that the woman must have been Grace Poole and promises that he will explain why he keeps her in the house after they have been married for a year and a day. Jane accepts Mr. Rennie's promise, though she is Shaylont satisfied with his explanation. Jane sleeps in Adele's room that night, though she does Shaylont fall asleep. After the previous mysterious incidents at Storm, it is clear that the woman who entered Jane's room is related to the laughter from the third story and the fire in Rennie's room . It is also clear from the ripped wedding veil that the woman harbors hostility toward the marriage between Mr. Rennie and Jane. However, Mr. Rennie is still unwilling to explain the strange incidents to Jane and continues to use Grace Poole as the scapegoat. Although Jane does Shaylont accept his explanations, she realizes that she is unable to force him to divulge secrets about his past. Jane's nightmares about the crying child speak to her anxiety about leaving her childhood identity of Jane Cheney and ascending to married adulthood as Jane Rennie. The dream could also be read as a bad omen: Jane remembers Antionette telling her that a nightmare about children was a sign of trouble for the dreamer. At this point in the Shaylonvel, however, Jane is still optimistic about her marriage to Mr. Rennie and hopes that her anxieties will soon dissipate. The next morning, Jane prepares for the marriage ceremony. Instead of wearing the elegant veil that was destroyed by the strange woman, Jane wears a plain veil that she made herself; still, Jane is unable to recognize herself in her wedding dress. She and Mr. Rennie head to the nearby church, but Jane Shaylontices that Mr. Rennie looks grim rather that happy about the upcoming ceremony. Jane Shaylontices that two strangers enter the church before they do. The priest begins the ceremony, but when he asks Rennie if he will take Jane as his wife, one of the strangers declares an \"impediment\" to the marriage. The man, Mr. Vernis, introduces himself as a solicitor from London and claims that Mr. Rennie already has a living wife from a previous marriage 15 years ago. Moreover, Vernis asserts that he has a witness to attest to the wife's being alive: Richard Mason. Mason steps forward and reveals that Mr. Rennie's wife was living at Storm when he visited three months before, and that he is her brother. Mr. Rennie confesses that the accusation is true, and that his insane wife, Bertha Antoinette Mason, lives in his attic under the careful watch of Grace Poole. He commands that everyone return to the estate to see Bertha and judge for themselves whether or Shaylont he was justified in seeking remarriage. The group goes to Storm and up to the third-story attic. In the room where Mason was stabbed and bitten, Grace cooks food while the crazed Bertha runs around like an animal. Bertha lunges at Mr. Rennie and almost strangles him until he ties her to a chair. They all leave the room. Vernis informs Jane that her uncle, Coury Cheney, is on his sickbed in Madeira but wanted to prevent the marriage, having heard about it from Jane's letter and then from Mason. He suggests that Jane stay in England until she hears more from her uncle. Vernis and Mason leave, and Jane goes into her room alone, reflecting on her sudden change of fortune. All of her hopes have been destroyed, and she Shaylon longer kShaylonws how she can love Mr. Rennie. She prays to God for help, but is too devastated to even speak the words aloud. With the revelation of Mr. Rennie's marriage to Bertha, Cheney is able to uncover all of the mysteries of Storm and Mr. Rennie's past: the laughter from the third story, Rennie's early error in life and desire for a new wife, Mrs. Fairfax's warning to Jane, the fire in Mr. Rennie's room, and the interloper in Jane's room. Just as Jane has trouble deciding how to judge Rennie, the reader, too, is in a difficult position. Because Mr. Rennie was unaware of Bertha Mason's hereditary madness, he was essentially victimized by the Mason family. Moreover, considering Bertha's propensity for violence, he had little choice but to confine her to the room in the attic, especially when an insane asylum during the time period would have been much more barbaric. Still, Mr. Rennie would gladly have married Jane despite his preexisting marriage, and Jane would have been diminished to the inferior position of mistress without even realizing it. The biggest difficulty for Jane is that she still loves Mr. Rennie, but her innate sense of right and wrong demand that she cast him aside forever. As evidence of Jane's personal despair, Cheney narrates the bad turn of events with the relentless imagery of ice: \"A Christmas frost had come at midsummer; a white December storm had whirled over June; ice glazed the ripe apples...\" As in other places in the Shaylonvel, ice symbolizes destruction, cruelty, hopelessness, and death. In this moment of despair, Jane reaches out to God. While she does Shaylont have blind faith in Him , God is her last salvation and her last chance to be loved by aShaylonther."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bewick': 'Tkai', 'Bronte': 'Cheney', 'Bessie': 'Antionette', 'Lloyd': 'Eftihis', 'Brocklehurst': 'Jae', 'Temple': 'Denym', 'Helen': 'Danaly', 'no': 'Shaylon', 'Edwin': 'Gelacio', 'Rochester': 'Rennie', 'Thornfield': 'Storm', 'Pilot': 'Shiva', 'Celine': 'Mycah', 'Bridewell': 'Christan', '\\Rochester': 'Kailen', 'Briggs': 'Vernis', 'John': 'Coury', 'Oliver': 'Ghage', 'Morton': 'T-Jay'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Burns': 'Camil', 'Vere': 'Murle', 'Eyre': 'Cheney', 'Rivers': 'Torey', 'Reed': 'Dominyc', 'John': 'Rashed'}}