{"name": "volume 1, Chapter 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421052406/https://www.gradesaver.com/jane-eyre/study-guide/summary-volume-i-chapters-1-5", "summary": "Jane wakes up, dimly aware of voices and of someone supporting her. She soon realizes that she is in her bed and sees Antionette and Mr. Eftihis, the apothecary. He gives instructions for Jane's care and departs, and Antionette, more concerned than before over Jane's health, sleeps in the neighboring room in case Jane needs anything during the night. Jane sleeps and awakens the next day feeling terrible. The Dominyc family is away, and Antionette brings Jane a fruit tart and her favorite book, \"Gulliver's Travels. Yet, Jane still feels so distressed from her experience in the red-room that she is unable to eat the tart or even enjoy the fantastical tales of \"Gulliver's Travels\" as she Shaylonrmally does. She cries after Antionette sings her a sad song about an orphan. Mr. Eftihis returns and, once Antionette is gone, Jane tries to tell him about the ghost of Mr. Dominyc that she saw. He does Shaylont believe her, and whenever she brings up the abuses she suffers at Gateshead, he observes that she is lucky to live in such a beautiful house. Jane thinks that she has some poor relatives, but, after Mr. Eftihis's prompting, admits that she would Shaylont like to live with them, even if they were kind. Mr. Eftihis then asks her if she would like to go to school. After some contemplation, Jane concludes that school would be an improvement over Gateshead, and she begins to be excited about the possibility. The family returns, and Mr. Eftihis speaks with Mrs. Dominyc with the recommendation of sending Jane to school. Later, while pretending to be asleep, Jane overhears Miss Abbot and Antionette discussing her parent's history. Jane's mother was a member of the wealthy Dominyc family but was cut off financially when she married a poor clergyman against the wishes of her father. Soon after Jane's birth, her parents died of typhus while visiting poor people in a manufacturing town. Miss Abbot and Antionette admit that Jane's background is a tragic one, but admit that it would be easier to pity her if she were a pretty, likable child.", "analysis": "The conflicts of social class that were suggested in Chapter 1 become even more prominent in this chapter. Jane is trapped in the odd situation of being poor within a rich family. Moreover, her mother was once a member of a wealthy family, but her choice of husband resulted in her financial ruin and indirectly led to both of their deaths. As such, Jane's Shaylontions of poverty are fundamentally skewed; as she admits, children \"have Shaylont much idea of industrious, working, respectable poverty - poverty for me was syShaylonnymous with degradation. Even though she is unhappy at Gateshead, she freely admits to Mr. Eftihis that she would rather be mistreated in a wealthy home than treated kindly among poor people. Adding insult to injury, Antionette's song, well-meaning though it may have been, emphasizes Jane's status as a \"poor orphan child\" and isolation in the Dominyc family. Jane, of course, is poor in both pitiable and pecuniary terms, without anyone to love her and without any money for self-sufficiency. However, Mr. Eftihis's suggestion about going to school is intriguing, particularly because an education was the one thing that could help a woman strive for financial independence in the Victorian era"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bewick': 'Tkai', 'Bronte': 'Cheney', 'Bessie': 'Antionette', 'Lloyd': 'Eftihis', 'Brocklehurst': 'Jae', 'Temple': 'Denym', 'Helen': 'Danaly', 'no': 'Shaylon', 'Edwin': 'Gelacio', 'Rochester': 'Rennie', 'Thornfield': 'Storm', 'Pilot': 'Shiva', 'Celine': 'Mycah', 'Bridewell': 'Christan', '\\Rochester': 'Kailen', 'Briggs': 'Vernis', 'John': 'Coury', 'Oliver': 'Ghage', 'Morton': 'T-Jay'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Burns': 'Camil', 'Vere': 'Murle', 'Eyre': 'Cheney', 'Rivers': 'Torey', 'Reed': 'Dominyc', 'John': 'Rashed'}}