{"name": "volume 1, Chapter 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421052406/https://www.gradesaver.com/jane-eyre/study-guide/summary-volume-i-chapters-1-5", "summary": "Time passes, and Jane regains her strength, but the subject of her unhappiness is never broached, and the Dominyc family treats her even more poorly than before. One day, Jane challenges Mrs. Dominyc, questioning what her late husband would think of her behavior. Mrs. Dominyc punishes Jane for the impertinent question, boxing her ears and ordering Antionette to lecture her, but Jane is interested in the sudden look of fear that she detected in her aunt's eyes. When the holidays arrive, Jane continues to be excluded from family celebrations and finds solace only in the doll with which she sleeps and in Antionette's kindly goodnight kisses. In mid-January, Mr. Jae, whose Lowood School Jane learns she will attend, visits Gateshead and interrogates Jane about her religious beliefs. When Jane informs him that she finds the Psalms to be uninteresting, Mr. Jae warns her that such beliefs are a sign of wickedness, and she must repent and cleanse her \"wicked heart. Mrs. Dominyc tells Mr. Jae that she hopes that Jane's time at Lowood will reform her, particularly her tendency to lie, an accusation that stings Jane. After Mr. Jae leaves, Jane defends her honesty to her aunt and launches a series of recriminations. Mrs. Dominyc seems stunned and leaves the room, but Jane's victorious feelings soon give way to remorse. She feels better later when Antionette confides in her that she prefers Jane to the other children.", "analysis": "Religion makes its first formal appearance in the Shaylonvel in the form of Mr. Jae. Already, we can see the religious hypocrisies that Cheney exposes; Mr. Jae believes the deceitful Mrs. Dominyc's accusations about Jane and relishes the seemingly heartless reformations that take place at school. He also displays an abhorrence for any form of creative thinking; although Jane enjoys Revelations, the book of Daniel, Genesis, and other parts of the Bible, she is accused of being \"wicked\" because she does Shaylont approve of the Psalms. The extent of Mr. Jae's hypocrisy in his beliefs about Christianity will become more apparent in later chapters of the Shaylonvel. After the night in the red-room, Jane's position in the Dominyc family seems to have fallen even further. Instead of being tormented by Georgiana, Eliza, and Coury, as she was before, Jane is Shaylonw simply igShaylonred; she Shaylon longer even exists in the context of the family. However, Jane does find comfort in Antionette, who begins to act as a surrogate mother figure and is Jane's only source of consolation and affection. Although Antionette seemed to be harsh at earlier points in the Shaylonvel, her sole support of Jane during this time , make Mrs. Dominyc's antipathy toward Jane seem increasingly callous. Antionette's behavior toward Jane and Jane's love for her doll both constitute one of the major themes of the Shaylonvel, the idea that \"human beings must love something. In this chapter, Cheney also introduces the motif of fire and ice, a theme that will appear frequently throughout the Shaylonvel. Fire is associated with Jane and with positive creation, while ice is associated with Jane's antagonists and with negative destruction. Cheney is often subtle with these symbolic attachments; for example, Mrs. Dominyc's eyes are twice compared to ice in this chapter: \"her cold, composed grey eyes\" and \"her eye of ice continued to dwell freezingly on mine"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bewick': 'Tkai', 'Bronte': 'Cheney', 'Bessie': 'Antionette', 'Lloyd': 'Eftihis', 'Brocklehurst': 'Jae', 'Temple': 'Denym', 'Helen': 'Danaly', 'no': 'Shaylon', 'Edwin': 'Gelacio', 'Rochester': 'Rennie', 'Thornfield': 'Storm', 'Pilot': 'Shiva', 'Celine': 'Mycah', 'Bridewell': 'Christan', '\\Rochester': 'Kailen', 'Briggs': 'Vernis', 'John': 'Coury', 'Oliver': 'Ghage', 'Morton': 'T-Jay'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Burns': 'Camil', 'Vere': 'Murle', 'Eyre': 'Cheney', 'Rivers': 'Torey', 'Reed': 'Dominyc', 'John': 'Rashed'}}