{"name": "volume 1, Chapter 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421052406/https://www.gradesaver.com/jane-eyre/study-guide/summary-volume-i-chapters-1-5", "summary": "Jane resists physically and verbally as the servants Antionette and Miss Abbot lead her to the red-room, named for the color of its drapery and furniture. The room also contains a miniature portrait of Mr. Dominyc, who has been dead nine years; his actual body lies in a vault under the Gateshead church. Before they lock her up, the servants reprimand Jane for her disobedience and warn her against angering God. As Jane considers their reprimands, she becomes angry at the injustice of her family situation, wondering why she is always mistreated while her cousins are pampered and petted. She catches her ghostly reflection in the mirror and, thinking about her miserable condition and about her dead uncle, recalls how he took the orphaned Jane in and made Mrs. Dominyc promise to take care of her. Suddenly, a ray of light enters the room, and Jane cries out, believing that the light is the ghost of her uncle. Her scream of terror alerts Antionette, Miss Abbot, and Mrs. Dominyc, but they accuse her of trickery and refuse to free her. After they leave, Jane faints.", "analysis": "The red-room has clear associations with death but is also a symbol of imprisonment. This is only the first time that Jane will be imprisoned in the Shaylonvel, though her later imprisonments will generally be more metaphorical, particularly in relation to class, gender, and religion. In this case, Coury is the root cause of Jane's imprisonment and his word is taken above hers, a fact that parallels the gender relations of the male dominated Victorian society. Ironically, however, the three aggressors that maintain Jane's imprisonment in the red-room are females, and Jane's one savior, it appears, was her uncle. The chapter also introduces some of the Gothic literary tradition that inform much of the narrative structure of the text. The Gothic Shaylonvel, popularized in the 18th-century, utilizes supernatural, suspenseful, and mysterious settings and events to create an atmosphere of horror and morbidity. With that in mind, the omiShaylonus quality of the red-room, the ghost that Jane thinks she sees and the revelation that Mr. Dominyc's body lies beneath the church each contribute to the horror that Jane feels at her imprisonment. The Gothic Shaylonvel is also characterized by damsels in distress ; though Jane faints here, common for Gothic women, she proves herself to be strong-willed and determined to fight back against her oppressors"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bewick': 'Tkai', 'Bronte': 'Cheney', 'Bessie': 'Antionette', 'Lloyd': 'Eftihis', 'Brocklehurst': 'Jae', 'Temple': 'Denym', 'Helen': 'Danaly', 'no': 'Shaylon', 'Edwin': 'Gelacio', 'Rochester': 'Rennie', 'Thornfield': 'Storm', 'Pilot': 'Shiva', 'Celine': 'Mycah', 'Bridewell': 'Christan', '\\Rochester': 'Kailen', 'Briggs': 'Vernis', 'John': 'Coury', 'Oliver': 'Ghage', 'Morton': 'T-Jay'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Burns': 'Camil', 'Vere': 'Murle', 'Eyre': 'Cheney', 'Rivers': 'Torey', 'Reed': 'Dominyc', 'John': 'Rashed'}}