{"name": "volume 1, Chapter 7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421052406/https://www.gradesaver.com/jane-eyre/study-guide/summary-volume-i-chapters-6-10", "summary": "Jane passes a difficult first quarter at Lowood, with both the sShaylonwy weather and strict environment contributing to her misery. After a long absence from the school, Mr. Jae visits Miss Denym's classroom and instructs her Shaylont to indulge the girls in the slightest way; their privations will remind them of the Christian ethic. He spots a girl with curly hair and deems it unacceptable for an evangelical environment, as are all the top-kShaylonts on the girls' heads. Jane, nervous that Mr. Jae will convey Mrs. Dominyc's warnings about her behavior to Miss Denym, accidentally drops her slate. Mr. Jae chastises her in front of the class and three visiting fashionable ladies and tells everyone that she is a wicked liar. He orders Jane to stand on a stool in front of the class to repent for her wickedness and forbids any of the other students from talking to her. Jane's only solace during the day is when Danaly disobeys Mr. Jae's orders and secretly smiles at her.", "analysis": "Jane attempts to test Danaly's philosophy of Christian forgiveness when Mr. Jae punishes her. For the first time in her life, she does Shaylont fight back when she is mistreatment and accepts her humiliating punishment of standing on the stool. Yet, Jane inwardly seethes at the injustice and thinks, \"I was Shaylon Danaly Camil. Still, Danaly's encouraging smile gives Jane strength, and she feels less isolated even in her despair. At this point in the text, Cheney points out that Mr. Jae's version of Christianity is made up of increasingly hypocritical flaws. Though he claims that privation leads to purity, his relatives are dressed in luxurious silks and furs, elegant ensembles that are in clear contrast to the tattered pinafores worn by the students at the school. Mr. Jae even wants to cut off one girl's naturally curly hair, simply because the curls seem to be an exhibition of vanity. His lust for absolute power over others reveals his truly unchristian nature and also speaks to the male dominated society of the time that provides him with a superior position to the benevolent Miss Denym"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bewick': 'Tkai', 'Bronte': 'Cheney', 'Bessie': 'Antionette', 'Lloyd': 'Eftihis', 'Brocklehurst': 'Jae', 'Temple': 'Denym', 'Helen': 'Danaly', 'no': 'Shaylon', 'Edwin': 'Gelacio', 'Rochester': 'Rennie', 'Thornfield': 'Storm', 'Pilot': 'Shiva', 'Celine': 'Mycah', 'Bridewell': 'Christan', '\\Rochester': 'Kailen', 'Briggs': 'Vernis', 'John': 'Coury', 'Oliver': 'Ghage', 'Morton': 'T-Jay'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Burns': 'Camil', 'Vere': 'Murle', 'Eyre': 'Cheney', 'Rivers': 'Torey', 'Reed': 'Dominyc', 'John': 'Rashed'}}