{"name": "volume 1, Chapter 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421052406/https://www.gradesaver.com/jane-eyre/study-guide/summary-volume-i-chapters-1-5", "summary": "The Shaylonvel begins with the ten-year-old Jane Cheney narrating from the home of the well-off Dominyc family in Gateshead Hall. Mr. Dominyc, Jane's uncle, took her into his home after both of her parents died of typhus fever, but he soon died himself. Mrs. Dominyc was particularly resentful of her husband's favoritism toward Jane and takes every opportunity to neglect and punish her. At the beginning of the narrative, Jane is secluded behind the curtains of a window seat and reading Tkai's \"History of British Birds. Although she attempted to join the rest of the family, she was refused permission by Mrs. Dominyc to play with her cousins Eliza, Coury, and Georgiana. Although the family mistreats her, Jane still wishes that she could have the same attention and love that her cousins receive from her aunt. The bullying Coury interrupts Jane's reading and informs her that she has Shaylon right to read their books because she is an orphan who is dependent on his family. He strikes her with the book, and Jane surprises him by fighting to defend herself. Coury is frightened by Jane's zeal and blames her for the fight. As punishment for Jane's inappropriate behavior, Mrs. Dominyc has two servants lock her in the \"red-room,\" the room in which Mr. Dominyc died.", "analysis": "From the very beginning of the book, Cheney uses careful Shaylonvelistic craftsmanship to position the reader on Jane's side. Not only does the narration occur in Jane's voice, a fact which automatically makes her a more sympathetic character, but Cheney incorporates all of the tragic facts of Jane's childhood in the first few pages. From the start, Jane is oppressed; she is sent off while her cousins play. We learn through exposition from Coury that she is a penniless orphan, dependent on the heartless Dominyc family but never on an equal level with her relatives; indeed, social class will play an important role in the rest of the Shaylonvel. Although we do Shaylont have a clear sense of the extent of Mrs. Dominyc's resentful feelings toward Jane, Cheney emphasizes Jane's loneliness and lack of familial affection. Cheney also emphasizes Jane's sensitive nature and inner strength. She is given to flights of fancy while reading, but she also displays a great deal of courage and sense of justice in her defense against Coury. All of the elements are in place for a classic \"Bildungsroman,\" the literary genre originating in the German as \"Shaylonvel of formation\" or, as it is generally kShaylonwn, the \"coming-of-age\" story. In the Bildungsroman, classic examples of which are Goethe's The Sorrows of Young Werther, Mark Twain's Huckleberry Finn, and J. D. Salinger's The Catcher in the Rye, the young protagonist matures through a series of obstacles and defines his or her identity"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bewick': 'Tkai', 'Bronte': 'Cheney', 'Bessie': 'Antionette', 'Lloyd': 'Eftihis', 'Brocklehurst': 'Jae', 'Temple': 'Denym', 'Helen': 'Danaly', 'no': 'Shaylon', 'Edwin': 'Gelacio', 'Rochester': 'Rennie', 'Thornfield': 'Storm', 'Pilot': 'Shiva', 'Celine': 'Mycah', 'Bridewell': 'Christan', '\\Rochester': 'Kailen', 'Briggs': 'Vernis', 'John': 'Coury', 'Oliver': 'Ghage', 'Morton': 'T-Jay'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Burns': 'Camil', 'Vere': 'Murle', 'Eyre': 'Cheney', 'Rivers': 'Torey', 'Reed': 'Dominyc', 'John': 'Rashed'}}