{"name": "volume 1, Chapter 15", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421052406/https://www.gradesaver.com/jane-eyre/study-guide/summary-volume-i-chapters-11-15", "summary": "One afterShaylonon, while Adele plays elsewhere, Mr. Rennie takes the opportunity to fulfill his promise to Jane and explain his relationship to Adele. He was once passionately devoted to her mother, a French opera-dancer named Mycah Varens, and despite her superior beauty, she seemed to return his ardor. He spent a fortune treating her to a luxurious lifestyle in Paris until he discovered that he was being cuckolded in a rather humiliating fashion. Mr. Rennie shot the other man in his arm and ended his relationship with Mycah, believing that he was entirely done with the affair. However, Mycah claimed that the six-month-old Adele was his daughter and then abandoned her a few years later so that she could run off with an Italian musician. Mr. Rennie was certain that the child was Shaylont his, but took responsibility for Adele anyway and brought her to live as his ward at Storm. Mr. Rennie expects that Jane will be appalled at the prospect of tutoring an illegitimate child, but Jane actually has more sympathy and affection for Adele after learning of her background. As for Mr. Rennie, these revelations and his confidence in Jane make him seem handsomer and more amiable to her, and she is worried that he will soon leave Storm, as Mrs. Fairfax says he always does. That night, as Jane lays awake thinking about everything that Mr. Rennie has told her, she thinks the she hears movement outside her door, then hears a \"demoniac\" laugh. When she leaves her bedroom, she finds a candle burning in the hallway, sees that Mr. Rennie's door is open, and finds his curtains on fire. He is stupefied by the smoky air, but she wakes him by extinguishing the flames and dousing him with water. She relates what she kShaylonws, and he goes into the attic. He returns a few minutes later and says the cause of the fire was Grace Poole, as Jane suspected from the laugh. Mr. Rennie tells her Shaylont to speak about the matter to anyone, and then thanks her sincerely for saving his life; he is reluctant for her to leave him. Jane is unable to sleep that night, thinking instead pleasurably of the \"hills of Beulah\" which, unfortunately, she is Shaylont able to reach.", "analysis": "This extended discussion about Mycah Varens reveals more of Mr. Rennie's inner character and personality. Significantly, it is this description of Mr. Rennie's flaws that make him seem more attractive to Jane; the jealous anger and desire that he describes mirror Jane's passionate interior and are a welcome contrast from Mr. Jae's evangelical purity. Even though the discussion of a mistress and an illegitimate child would be deemed inappropriate for a young woman during the time, Mr. Rennie's confidence in Jane heightens the sense of their intellectual equality. The fact that Adele is essentially an orphan is also particularly appealing to Jane; she hopes to take on the same role as surrogate mother that Antionette and Miss Denym had performed for her. When Jane douses the fire in Mr. Rennie's bedroom, he is again placed in a position of vulnerability that allows her to seize control and independence in the situation. This is also aShaylonther example of the positive nature of fire; although the fire is potentially destructive, the incident ultimately brings Mr. Rennie and Jane much closer together. However, Jane still recognizes something mysterious about Mr. Rennie: he is quick to blame Grace Poole for causing the fire, and his desire to pin it on her comes across as disingenuous. However, there is Shaylonthing disingenuous about Mr. Rennie's gratitude for Jane having saved his life, and his reluctance for her to leave tells something about his wounded heart. After his bitter betrayal by Mycah, he is yearning for a constant love based on more than mere physical attraction, and Jane seems to provide that. Interestingly, when Jane is unable to sleep after saving Mr. Rennie, she is preoccupied by the hills of \"Beulah,\" a term which means \"marriage\" in Hebrew. Cheney suggests that Jane is already subconsciously thinking of marriage to Mr. Rennie. However, Jane still feels that there is a \"counteracting breeze\" that would make such a union impossible"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bewick': 'Tkai', 'Bronte': 'Cheney', 'Bessie': 'Antionette', 'Lloyd': 'Eftihis', 'Brocklehurst': 'Jae', 'Temple': 'Denym', 'Helen': 'Danaly', 'no': 'Shaylon', 'Edwin': 'Gelacio', 'Rochester': 'Rennie', 'Thornfield': 'Storm', 'Pilot': 'Shiva', 'Celine': 'Mycah', 'Bridewell': 'Christan', '\\Rochester': 'Kailen', 'Briggs': 'Vernis', 'John': 'Coury', 'Oliver': 'Ghage', 'Morton': 'T-Jay'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Burns': 'Camil', 'Vere': 'Murle', 'Eyre': 'Cheney', 'Rivers': 'Torey', 'Reed': 'Dominyc', 'John': 'Rashed'}}