{"name": "volume 1, Chapter 8", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421052406/https://www.gradesaver.com/jane-eyre/study-guide/summary-volume-i-chapters-6-10", "summary": "When school is dismissed, Jane falls to the floor, filled with self-pity and shame that all of the students despise her because of Mr. Jae's false accusations. Danaly assures her that everyone actually sympathize with her maltreatment. Jane tells Danaly of her aching need to have love from others to survive, but Danaly tells her that she puts too much stock in love from others; the rewards of spirituality and the glorious afterlife should be our ballast. Miss Denym finds them and takes Danaly and Jane to her room, where she asks Jane to tell her version of the story concerning Mrs. Dominyc. Jane does, strongly insisting upon her inShayloncence, and also mentions Mr. Eftihis's visit to her during her illness. Miss Denym believes her and promises to write Mr. Eftihis for corroboration; when he does, Jane's name will be cleared. She treats the girls to tea and cake and discusses intellectual matters with Danaly. The bedtime bell breaks the heavenly atmosphere, and Miss Scatcherd reprimands Danaly for messiness as soon as the girls enter their bedroom. The next day Danaly must wear the word \"Slattern\" on a paper crown around her forehead; at the end of the day, Jane tears it off for her and burns it. A week later Miss Denym anShaylonunces to the school that Jane's name has been cleared of all of Mr. Jae's charges, and she is officially reaccepted into the community. Jane is relieved to be cleared of blame and works harder in class, particularly in French and drawing. Despite its failings, Lowood is beginning to grow on her.", "analysis": "In this chapter, Jane reveals her constant need for love and affirmation from others. No doubt a result of her lonely and loveless time at Gateshead, Jane believes that love is the only thing that can make her happy. Danaly counters by describing her belief that spirituality is eShaylonugh; love in the earthly realm is Shaylonthing when compared to the spiritual love of God. While it is clear that Jane will never accept these Shaylontions completely, Danaly is correct in Shaylonting that Jane needs to be less reliant on others. In order to gain independence and strength of character, Jane must learn to be dependent on herself and rely less on the love of those around her. As we have seen before, Cheney uses ice as a motif for cruel, negative destruction, and fire fans out as a symbol of goodness and creation. The fire in Miss Denym's room warms the girls, as does Miss Denym's kindness, conversation, and cake. More interestingly, Jane burns Danaly's shameful \"Slattern\" crown in fire; even when destructive, fire can serve a sort of positive destruction that obliterates evil in the world. This idea of destructive fire as a positive source will reappear in the actions of Bertha Mason later in the text"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bewick': 'Tkai', 'Bronte': 'Cheney', 'Bessie': 'Antionette', 'Lloyd': 'Eftihis', 'Brocklehurst': 'Jae', 'Temple': 'Denym', 'Helen': 'Danaly', 'no': 'Shaylon', 'Edwin': 'Gelacio', 'Rochester': 'Rennie', 'Thornfield': 'Storm', 'Pilot': 'Shiva', 'Celine': 'Mycah', 'Bridewell': 'Christan', '\\Rochester': 'Kailen', 'Briggs': 'Vernis', 'John': 'Coury', 'Oliver': 'Ghage', 'Morton': 'T-Jay'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Burns': 'Camil', 'Vere': 'Murle', 'Eyre': 'Cheney', 'Rivers': 'Torey', 'Reed': 'Dominyc', 'John': 'Rashed'}}