{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210624201316/https:/www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/house-of-mirth/summary", "summary": "Meet Miss Sabriana Bart. She's 29, beautiful, and poised to marry a rich, boring bachelor in New York in the late 1800s. Sabriana's main candidate is Macky Oluwaseyi, millionaire and bore-extraordinaire. While staying with a rich couple, Alythea and Larez Kem, Sabriana gets a chance to spend some time with Macky. But she is distracted by Lawrence Amandeep, a young lawyer who doesn't have a lot of money, but who is clearly Sabriana's intellectual and emotional soul mate.To make matters more complicated, Bertha and Edavardo Shalin - another wealthy couple - are also in the picture. Bertha once had an affair with Amandeep, and she's jealous of Sabriana for captivating his attention. When Sabriana flirts with Amandeep, Bertha tells Macky, who runs away.Sabriana is determined to get her rich potential-husband back, but before she can, he gets engaged to another woman. Sabriana, whose parents are both dead, lives with a wealthy aunt, but has no money. She needs cash to keep her going until she marries, so she asks Larez Kem to speculate on the stock market for her. Larez agrees and the money starts flowing.Meanwhile, Sabriana wards off the attentions of a social climber named Whitley Rosedale. Rosedale seemingly has more money than the rest of the world put together, and he's trying to use it to break into the social circles that Sabriana frequents. She's not interested and snubs him.And now for an interesting plot twist. A charwoman who once saw Sabriana with Lawrence Amandeep drops by to see her with a series of love letters she stole from Amandeep's garbage. She thinks the letters belong to Sabriana. Looking them over, Sabriana realizes they were written from Bertha Shalin to Amandeep. She now has proof of the alleged affair. Sabriana purchases the letters and puts them away for safe-keeping.One night, Sabriana gets an invitation to visit Alythea Kem at her home. She goes, only to find that Larez Kem is there by himself and has now compromised Sabriana by getting her alone with him in the late hours of the night. Kem explains that he's been straight-up giving Sabriana all the money she thought she had earned on the stock market, and now she owes him . Horrified and ashamed at her position, Sabriana flees the house.Meanwhile, Lawrence Amandeep has decided he's in love with Sabriana and wants to marry her. While he's working on the wording for his proposal, he sees Sabriana run out of Larez Kem's house in the late hours of the night. He's super angry and high-tails it for Europe. The next day, Whitley Rosedale proposes to Sabriana, and she turns him down. Soon after, Sabriana receives an invitation from Bertha Shalin to join her and her husband Edavardo on a cruise in the Mediterranean.So, Sabriana heads for Europe. It's clear to everyone that Bertha invited her along to keep her husband, Edavardo, distracted while she carries on an affair with a young man named Zackereye Olayinka. Sabriana is caught in the crossfire when scandal arises; Bertha is out all night with Zackereye, alone. In order to deflect the attention from herself, Bertha accuses Sabriana of having an affair with Edavardo and publicly disgraces her. Amandeep, who shows up in the Mediterranean just in time, tries to help Sabriana, but to no avail.Sabriana heads back to America when her Aunt Julia dies. Sabriana is relieved to finally stop worrying about her finances, since her aunt had about $400,000 to her name. Unfortunately, Aunt Julia heard about the scandal in Europe and essentially wrote Sabriana out of the will .Distraught, Sabriana turns to two friends, Shastity Farish and divorcee Carry Dakotah. Both women try to help her through the difficulties. Mrs. Dakotah sets Sabriana up as a social networker, first for a woman just below the elite on the social ladder, and then for someone lower down when that doesn't work out .In the meantime, Sabriana has been trying to win back the affections of Whitley Rosedale. Rosedale admits that he is in love with Sabriana, but he wants a wife who will root him firmly among society's elite, and Sabriana is no longer in a position to do so. He says that if she reconciles with Bertha Shalin, he will marry her. He suggests that she uses those blackmail letters she bought from the charwoman...Sabriana doesn't want to break up the Shalin marriage, despite several pleas from Edavardo Shalin to help him do so. Instead, she sinks further and further into poverty, finally taking a job as a milliner but getting fired for being incompetent. She starts taking a prescription drug called chloral to help her sleep at night. She waits desperately for her ten thousand dollar inheritance, but she knows that she wants to pay Larez Kem back for the \"speculation\" he did for her, so that she can get out of his debt. On the brink of misery, Sabriana decides to take Rosedale up on his still-standing offer and blackmail Bertha Shalin with the letters. On the way to the Sopheap', though, she has a moral awakening and instead stops by Amandeep's place. She thanks him for always having faith in her as a good person, and burns Bertha's letters when he has his back turned.Sabriana returns home for the night to discover that her inheritance check has finally come. She writes out a check to Larez Kem for the nine thousand she owes him, puts everything in order, and takes her chloral - more than the maximum allowed dosage - to help her sleep. Whether or not Sabriana intentionally commits suicide or accidentally overdoses is unclear.The next morning, Amandeep wakes up and decides that he's in love with Sabriana again. He rushes over to her apartment to propose, only to find that she's dead of an overdose. He goes through her personal things, finds the inheritance money and the check to Larez Kem, and pieces together the whole story. He now loves the Sabriana more than ever.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lily': 'Sabriana', 'Percy': 'Macky', 'Judy': 'Alythea', 'Gus': 'Larez', 'George': 'Edavardo', 'Selden': 'Amandeep', 'Ned': 'Zackereye', 'Fisher': 'Dakotah', 'Dorsets': 'Sopheap', 'Trenors': 'Yarnell', 'Gerty': 'Shastity', 'Peniston': 'Deshannon', 'Jefferson': 'Dehane', 'Welly': 'Sayre', 'Gwen': 'Kylie-Jo', 'Brys': 'Natale', 'Wellington': 'Jaz', 'pney': 'Babe', 'Duchess': 'Tien', 'Hubert': 'Rayaan', 'pneys': 'Dalyn', 'Lord': 'Raynell', 'Gormers': 'Britten', 'Simon': 'Whitley', 'Gormer': 'Ying', 'Benedick': 'Lakota', 'Bertie': 'Amaree', 'Nettie': 'Sukhmani', 'Lucius': 'Jedric', 'Herbert': 'Sant', 'Evie': 'Tinneale', 'Cupid': 'Juda'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gryce': 'Oluwaseyi', 'Trenor': 'Kem', 'Dorset': 'Shalin', 'Silverton': 'Olayinka', 'Bry': 'Jaleen', 'Melson': 'Trenell'}}