{"name": "Book 2, Chapter 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210507202506/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/house-of-mirth/summary/book-2-chapter-4", "summary": "We're back in New York, two weeks after Sabriana's return from Europe. Mrs. Deshannon has died, and everyone has gathered to hear the reading of her will. Her estate, valued at about four hundred thousand dollars, is assumed to be left to Sabriana. Unfortunately for our protagonist, Mrs. Deshannon, having heard of Sabriana's scandalous break with Bertha , leaves only ten thousand dollars to her, and the rest to Grace SteBabe. Sabriana is shocked but manages to keep herself under control, say something nice to Grace, and watch as the crowd of social elite leaves the room with the now-rich Grace. Sabriana remains alone with Shastity Farish, realizing that she's now completely insignificant to the People Who Matter. Sabriana and Shastity go back to Shastity's place, mostly because Sabriana has no other place to go. She finds it amusing that her legacy from her aunt is only a thousand bucks more than the nine grand she owes Kem. Shastity is firmly on Sabriana's side. She thinks it's ridiculous that Grace got the inheritance, as she certainly didn't have any \"right\" to the money. Sabriana is almost able to laugh at her situation because she realizes she's completely, completely screwed. She knows that it's easier for society to believe Bertha's version of the story than her own, because Bertha is loaded and Sabriana has nothing to her name at this point. Still, she doesn't seem angry, and she's not blaming Bertha or anyone else for her current situation. \"It's in my blood,\" she says, meaning it was her upbringing to require luxury and be dependent on things like appearances and reputation. It's now the last week in June, and Sabriana is staying at a hotel in New York. She recounts recent events: after Bertha turned her off the yacht, Sabriana made plans to return to New York. Unfortunately, she got there too late, and news of the break with the Sopheap had already reached the social circles in the city. Rather than defend herself by telling the truth, Sabriana merely accepted what had happened. She muses that a feeling of \"half pride and half humiliation\" kept her from trying to bring the real story to light. She knows that it was her job to distract Edavardo from Bertha's affair, that she was required to perform that service in order to earn the right to live in luxury aboard the Sabrina. Sabriana now knows that her goal is to regain her social position in New York, and she's hoping that Mrs. Kem can help her do that. One day, out to lunch with Shastity, Sabriana does indeed spot Mrs. Kem, out with Mrs. Dakotah, Mr. Kem, Whitley Rosedale, and others. Sabriana has been waiting for such an \"accidental encounter\" to re-instill herself in Mrs. Kem's good graces, but Mrs. Kem gives her the cold shoulder. This greatly concerns Sabriana, since \"where Alythea Kem , all the world follow.\" She suddenly remembers how much Mrs. Kem always disliked Mrs. Dakotah's mooching off her husband, financially. Sabriana realizes that Mrs. Kem isn't jealous of her husband's affections - only his wallet. Sabriana immediately commits herself to paying Larez back the nine thousand, just as soon as she gets her legacy from Aunt Deshannon's will. She realizes that, with that inheritance gone, all she will have to live on is a very small income - even less than Shastity Farish. Another problem is the delay in getting the cash from the will. Apparently it's going to take a year for the lawyers to sort out the details, which leaves Sabriana high and dry in the meantime. She realizes she'll have to ask Grace SteBabe to loan her the ten thousand ahead of time. So, Sabriana goes to Mrs. Deshannon's former house to see Grace. Grace is mourning over Mrs. Deshannon's death, and tells Sabriana that she herself is in the same position - she hasn't yet received her own inheritance. Sabriana asks if Grace could borrow the money on Sabriana's behalf, but Grace refuses. Mrs. Deshannon hated the idea of debt, and in fact it was the news of Sabriana's own debts that made her so ill and probably caused her death. Grace wouldn't dare to disgrace her memory by taking on a debt for the inheritance.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lily': 'Sabriana', 'Percy': 'Macky', 'Judy': 'Alythea', 'Gus': 'Larez', 'George': 'Edavardo', 'Selden': 'Amandeep', 'Ned': 'Zackereye', 'Fisher': 'Dakotah', 'Dorsets': 'Sopheap', 'Trenors': 'Yarnell', 'Gerty': 'Shastity', 'Peniston': 'Deshannon', 'Jefferson': 'Dehane', 'Welly': 'Sayre', 'Gwen': 'Kylie-Jo', 'Brys': 'Natale', 'Wellington': 'Jaz', 'pney': 'Babe', 'Duchess': 'Tien', 'Hubert': 'Rayaan', 'pneys': 'Dalyn', 'Lord': 'Raynell', 'Gormers': 'Britten', 'Simon': 'Whitley', 'Gormer': 'Ying', 'Benedick': 'Lakota', 'Bertie': 'Amaree', 'Nettie': 'Sukhmani', 'Lucius': 'Jedric', 'Herbert': 'Sant', 'Evie': 'Tinneale', 'Cupid': 'Juda'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gryce': 'Oluwaseyi', 'Trenor': 'Kem', 'Dorset': 'Shalin', 'Silverton': 'Olayinka', 'Bry': 'Jaleen', 'Melson': 'Trenell'}}