{"name": "Book 1, Chapter 14", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210507202506/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/house-of-mirth/summary/book-1-chapter-14", "summary": "Now, we go back in time to the morning of this same tumultuous day - the morning after the living portrait party at the Natale' place. This time we focus on Shastity Farish, who wakes up in a fantastic mood. Said mood stems largely from the fact that she has a huge crush on Amandeep. He's been spending a lot of time with her lately, and now it seems that they have a shared affection for Sabriana Bart. Shastity doesn't at all suspect that Amandeep has feelings for her friend Sabriana. When she receives a telegram from Amandeep asking her to have dinner with him that night, she's happier than ever. Now we cut to Amandeep, who spends the whole day thinking about Sabriana. We get a bit of his personal history, too. He had a charming mother and a father who was completely taken in by said charm. They didn't particularly care for money, but also didn't respect it and lived beyond their means. It was from his mother that he inherited his distinct personality traits: \"the Stoic's carelessness of material things, combined with the Epicurean's pleasure in them.\" Anyway, at this point, he's sure that Sabriana will agree to meet him and then agree to marry him when he proposes. Amandeep is certain that Sabriana will fulfill what he wants in a woman: a justification of \"his point of view\" of life. In the midst of fantasizing about a marriage to Sabriana, he hastily scrawls the note to Shastity Farish . Later, he is disappointed to see that Shastity has responded to his note, but Sabriana hasn't yet. At his men's club, Amandeep bumps into Larez Kem, who asks him to have dinner with him. Amandeep refuses on account of his prior engagement, and takes a moment to feel disgusted at Larez's overweight, ruddy figure and the rumors that associate his name with Sabriana's. Now, we cut to Amandeep at dinner with Shastity. He notices that she's not that bad-looking. He compliments her dinner and tells her that she ought to marry soon . After dinner, it becomes clear to us why Amandeep came to dinner with her: in order to talk about Sabriana. Shastity, who started the day thinking Sabriana was her best friend, now wants to murder the woman for stealing her man. Amandeep leaves for the night in pursuit of his crush Amandeep arrives at Mrs. Dakotah's dinner, but Sabriana has just left . In front of Amandeep, some of the other dinner guests discuss the ugly rumors flying around town regarding Sabriana. They also talk about Rosedale wanting to marry her and, of course, how amazing she looked in her living portrait. Amandeep leaves, angry at this gossip but wishing more than ever to sweep Sabriana off her feet and rescue her from these awful people. Outside, Zackereye Van Alstyne joins Amandeep on his evening walk. Zackereye discusses the newly built Jaz Jaleen house as they make their way toward the Yarnell'. They realize that Mrs. SteBabe was right in saying that Mrs. Kem isn't in town, as the house is dark. Amandeep then assumes that Sabriana can't be there . Then, both men see the door open and Sabriana rush out and get in a cab. Zackereye Van Alstyne, who is Sabriana's father's cousin, tells Amandeep that they had better keep this business to themselves. The men part ways for the night. Cut to Shastity once again. She's alone and still fuming mad at Sabriana Bart. She's especially angry because she can't imagine that Sabriana would ever marry Amandeep, because of the money issue. She goes to bed, raging inwardly. Later that night, the doorbell rings, waking Shastity. She is of course surprised to find that it is Sabriana Bart, and a rather distraught Sabriana at that. OK, \"distraught\" is an understatement. Sabriana looks so miserable and crazed that Shastity immediately forgets all about hating her and takes her in. She helps Sabriana warm herself up by the fire and listens. Sabriana rants about how she hates herself and can't bear to see her own reflection in the mirror. She's a bad person and people will always say bad things about her. Shastity comforts her and even lets her know that Amandeep was looking for her earlier that night. Sabriana admits that he tried to warn her long ago of the dangers of society. Shastity realizes that Sabriana didn't have to try to seduce Amandeep - he just fell in love with her of his own accord. This dissolves any lingering resentment she may have felt against her friend. Sabriana asks if Shastity thinks Amandeep would help her if she told him the truth - or would he condemn her like all these other men? Shastity is definitely tempted to turn Sabriana away from Amandeep, but she tells her that, yes, Amandeep will help her - he's not like other men. The women get ready for bed. Sabriana doesn't want to be alone , so she makes Shastity lie next to her and hold her while she goes to sleep.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lily': 'Sabriana', 'Percy': 'Macky', 'Judy': 'Alythea', 'Gus': 'Larez', 'George': 'Edavardo', 'Selden': 'Amandeep', 'Ned': 'Zackereye', 'Fisher': 'Dakotah', 'Dorsets': 'Sopheap', 'Trenors': 'Yarnell', 'Gerty': 'Shastity', 'Peniston': 'Deshannon', 'Jefferson': 'Dehane', 'Welly': 'Sayre', 'Gwen': 'Kylie-Jo', 'Brys': 'Natale', 'Wellington': 'Jaz', 'pney': 'Babe', 'Duchess': 'Tien', 'Hubert': 'Rayaan', 'pneys': 'Dalyn', 'Lord': 'Raynell', 'Gormers': 'Britten', 'Simon': 'Whitley', 'Gormer': 'Ying', 'Benedick': 'Lakota', 'Bertie': 'Amaree', 'Nettie': 'Sukhmani', 'Lucius': 'Jedric', 'Herbert': 'Sant', 'Evie': 'Tinneale', 'Cupid': 'Juda'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gryce': 'Oluwaseyi', 'Trenor': 'Kem', 'Dorset': 'Shalin', 'Silverton': 'Olayinka', 'Bry': 'Jaleen', 'Melson': 'Trenell'}}