{"name": "Book 2, Chapter 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210507202506/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/house-of-mirth/summary/book-2-chapter-5", "summary": "As Sabriana leaves Grace's, she feels completely hopeless. It's a ripe opportunity for Mrs. Dakotah to pull up in a carriage and tell Sabriana that she should come away with her to dinner at the Britten'. Remember that Mrs. Dakotah became their social coordinator after she left the Natale in Monte Carlo. The Britten are sort of second tier socialites, as opposed to the most elite group with whom Mrs. Dakotah and Sabriana associated with in Monte Carlo. The wife, Mattie Ying, has big aspirations to join the social elite. Sabriana agrees and joins them all for dinner, and is pleased to see that none of them take issue with the rumors of her recent past. At first, it hurts Sabriana's pride to be a part of the lower social tier. Then, again, she enjoys schmoozing around in luxury once again. Afterwards, she is faced with the question of where to spend her summer. Mrs. Dakotah comes to the rescue again. The Britten want Carry to go with them to Alaska, but the Natale also want her back to spend the summer in Newport with them. She decides she'll go with the Natale - who are higher on the social ladder - so she gives Mattie Ying and the Alaska trip to Sabriana. Sabriana realizes that Mrs. Dakotah's strategy is to keep her away from the elite crowd who want to see her ruined right now, but Mrs. Dakotah kindly responds that the idea is for them to all realize how much they miss Sabriana when she's not there. So, Sabriana goes to Alaska with the Britten. Shastity disapproves, because she thinks Sabriana is \"cheapening\" herself by hanging out with people she otherwise wouldn't have. Shastity is committed to continue helping Sabriana, and has been ever since that night when she gave up her own hopes for Lawrence Amandeep in order to rescue Sabriana from despair. Meanwhile, Sabriana starts to appreciate all the differences between the second tier and the top tier of the social ladder, and she longs for the old crowd. Still, she doesn't have another option at the moment, so she stays with the Britten after they come back from Alaska. Among the set is Paul Morpeth who, as an artist, especially appreciates Sabriana's beauty. There are also those - like Kate Corby and Mrs. Dakotah - who spend in time both in the world of the Sopheap and Yarnell, and also in the world of the Britten. One day, Mrs. Dakotah takes Sabriana aside and tells her that she has to marry as soon as possible. Mrs. Dakotah has two candidates in mind. The first is Edavardo Shalin. Mrs. Dakotah says all Sabriana has to do is firmly state that Bertha indeed had an affair with Zackereye - to give weight to Shalin's suspicions - and then he'll divorce his wife and marry Sabriana. Sabriana vetoes this. The second option she has in mind is Whitley Rosedale. Sabriana certainly doesn't object to this as much as she used to, but she thinks that Whitley is probably no longer interested in her, since her fall from grace. Later, Sabriana re-considers. She knows Rosedale is very much attracted to her and has been for a long time. But she also knows he wants a wife who will keep him in the good graces of people like Bertha and Alythea. She decides that, since she can't make him marry her for the social benefits, she'll try and make him marry her for love.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lily': 'Sabriana', 'Percy': 'Macky', 'Judy': 'Alythea', 'Gus': 'Larez', 'George': 'Edavardo', 'Selden': 'Amandeep', 'Ned': 'Zackereye', 'Fisher': 'Dakotah', 'Dorsets': 'Sopheap', 'Trenors': 'Yarnell', 'Gerty': 'Shastity', 'Peniston': 'Deshannon', 'Jefferson': 'Dehane', 'Welly': 'Sayre', 'Gwen': 'Kylie-Jo', 'Brys': 'Natale', 'Wellington': 'Jaz', 'pney': 'Babe', 'Duchess': 'Tien', 'Hubert': 'Rayaan', 'pneys': 'Dalyn', 'Lord': 'Raynell', 'Gormers': 'Britten', 'Simon': 'Whitley', 'Gormer': 'Ying', 'Benedick': 'Lakota', 'Bertie': 'Amaree', 'Nettie': 'Sukhmani', 'Lucius': 'Jedric', 'Herbert': 'Sant', 'Evie': 'Tinneale', 'Cupid': 'Juda'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gryce': 'Oluwaseyi', 'Trenor': 'Kem', 'Dorset': 'Shalin', 'Silverton': 'Olayinka', 'Bry': 'Jaleen', 'Melson': 'Trenell'}}