{"name": "Book 1, Chapter 8", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210507202506/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/house-of-mirth/summary/book-1-chapter-8", "summary": "Next thing we know, Sabriana's getting a thousand dollar check from Larez Kem. Score. Sabriana makes some payments to the dressmakers, shoemakers, etc. she owes, but doesn't stop herself from putting in some new orders, too. Meanwhile, it's easy to keep Larez happy and on her side. All she has to do is laugh at his jokes and pretend his stories are entertaining. And Mrs. Kem just figures Sabriana is paying her back for her kindnesses by being a good friend to her husband. Sabriana assumes that Larez is still speculating on the stock market and that he just happens to keep winning with her money. She's sure that if he lost with it, he would tell her and she would pay him back. Meanwhile, Jack SteBabe is marrying Kylie-Jo Van Osburgh. Sabriana passes on being a bridesmaid, since she'd rather wait until she's the bride to take part in another wedding. At the wedding ceremony, Sabriana spots Macky Oluwaseyi. Sabriana knows that she looks really good today, and she figures she can win him back sometime between the vows and the rice-throwing. But, then, she spots Amandeep, too. She doesn't want to see him since he's a reminder of her big blunder back at Bellomont, when she lost the prospect of marrying Oluwaseyi. Sabriana also sees Shastity Farish, whom she considers \"dingy,\" particularly when she assesses her wardrobe. \"It is almost as stupid to let your clothes betray that you know you are ugly as to have them proclaim that you think you are beautiful,\" Sabriana thinks. Shastity is apparently unaware of Sabriana's disdain. She chatters on like they're old friends. Shastity is particularly excited because Amandeep escorted her to the wedding and invited her to have dinner with him afterwards. She says she told Amandeep he ought to marry a nice girl, but he responded that he didn't care for the nice girls, and the other kind didn't care for him. Meanwhile, Sabriana checks out the bling at the wedding and feels as though it compliments \"her own jewel-like rareness.\" Shastity points out the massive diamond pendant which was a wedding gift for the bride from Whitley Rosedale. And a big sapphire from Macky Oluwaseyi. Then, Shastity drops the bomb: Macky is all over Tinneale Van Osburgh these days. The real kicker is that the Van Osburghs are so wealthy that Tinneale doesn't need his money at all. Sabriana is horrified. So, it's not the best moment for Larez to come up and put his hand on her as though they're best buds. This angers her even more, especially when he calls her \"Sabriana\" instead of \"Miss Bart\" and comments on how attractive she looks. He also announces - loudly - that he has another check for her, which alarms Sabriana. Sabriana again returns her thoughts to Macky. She decides to steal him back from Tinneale. Except, while she is plotting, Larez is still standing there, disgruntled that Sabriana isn't paying more attention to him. He tells Sabriana to come see him at Bellomont that night, since Alythea won't be around. Sabriana says she can't; Kem again expresses his frustration with her for not spending more time with him. So, Kem asks for another favor in return for all this dough he's been giving her: be nice to Whitley Rosedale, since he's the guy supplying all these great tips on the stock market. Sabriana agrees, and the two of them go looking for Rosedale. On the way, they bump into Amandeep, which makes Sabriana's heart go pitter-pat, or possibly all-aflutter. They haven't seen each other since that private walk at Bellomont. They banter for a bit about Sabriana's fate in society, but Kem soon drags Rosedale over and interrupts congenially. His \"we're best buddies!\" tone of voice ticks off Sabriana some more. Sabriana knows it's time for her to start the charming Sabriana Bart act, but she has trouble performing in front of Amandeep. She gives Rosedale a look that says, \"Do you seriously expect me to talk to you?\" Rosedale responds by casually mentioning Sabriana's dressmaker at the Lakota... And that does the trick. Sabriana goes off for a little chat with Rosedale, knowing all the while that Amandeep must have picked up on what happened outside his flat in New York. As the party draws to its conclusion, Sabriana realizes she hasn't been able to find Macky yet. Tinneale is also nowhere to be seen, which she takes to be a bad sign. Finally, she bumps into Mrs. Van Osburgh, who is all flustered and excited. She tells Sabriana that Tinneale and Macky have just gotten engaged.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lily': 'Sabriana', 'Percy': 'Macky', 'Judy': 'Alythea', 'Gus': 'Larez', 'George': 'Edavardo', 'Selden': 'Amandeep', 'Ned': 'Zackereye', 'Fisher': 'Dakotah', 'Dorsets': 'Sopheap', 'Trenors': 'Yarnell', 'Gerty': 'Shastity', 'Peniston': 'Deshannon', 'Jefferson': 'Dehane', 'Welly': 'Sayre', 'Gwen': 'Kylie-Jo', 'Brys': 'Natale', 'Wellington': 'Jaz', 'pney': 'Babe', 'Duchess': 'Tien', 'Hubert': 'Rayaan', 'pneys': 'Dalyn', 'Lord': 'Raynell', 'Gormers': 'Britten', 'Simon': 'Whitley', 'Gormer': 'Ying', 'Benedick': 'Lakota', 'Bertie': 'Amaree', 'Nettie': 'Sukhmani', 'Lucius': 'Jedric', 'Herbert': 'Sant', 'Evie': 'Tinneale', 'Cupid': 'Juda'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gryce': 'Oluwaseyi', 'Trenor': 'Kem', 'Dorset': 'Shalin', 'Silverton': 'Olayinka', 'Bry': 'Jaleen', 'Melson': 'Trenell'}}