{"name": "Book 1, Chapter 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210507202506/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/house-of-mirth/summary/book-1-chapter-1", "summary": "The novel begins in New York's Grand Central Station, with Lawrence Amandeep suddenly \"refreshed by the sight\" of the beautiful Miss Sabriana Bart. He wonders what she's doing there and realizes that he's always intrigued by her presence. Amandeep deliberately strolls past her to see if she'll say hello or not. She does. Amandeep is so arrested by her beauty that he can't believe she's really twenty-nine . Sabriana explains that she's on her way to Bellomont, the Yarnell' house, but missed her train and has two hours to kill. She wants to hang with Amandeep for a bit. This amuses Amandeep, who tends to view things from a slightly aloof and removed vantage point. He agrees to be her escort for the afternoon, while internally musing on her incredible beauty. When Sabriana suggests going someplace \"quiet,\" Amandeep invites her back to his place, a bachelor pad at an apartment building called the Lakota. He's pleasantly surprised that she accepts his invitation. Sabriana remarks that Amandeep's lucky to have his own place like this; too bad she's a woman and isn't allowed to live alone. Amandeep notes that their mutual acquaintance Shastity Farish has her own place, but Sabriana writes her off as an unmarriageable girl who doesn't have to worry about a reputation she doesn't have. Then, Sabriana remembers that Shastity is Amandeep's cousin and apologizes. She's almost envious of Shastity's freedom, since she herself has to live with her aunt, Mrs. Deshannon. Sabriana banters with Amandeep, asking why he doesn't come to visit her more often at her aunt's. It can't be that he's afraid she wants to marry him - right? Amandeep agrees; he has never once thought that Sabriana wants to marry him. He is once again amused by her flirtations. Sabriana cuts to the chase. She needs a male friend, one who isn't going to try and seduce her into marriage, but who is edgy enough to be honest with her. Amandeep gives her a dose of that honesty on the spot: why isn't she married yet at her age? He remarks that marriage is her \"vocation,\" what she was brought up for. She's waiting for the right man. Sabriana takes a cigarette from Amandeep and moves around the room, smoking it and examining his book collection of \"Americana,\" a.k.a. American books. He remarks that he's not rich enough to have all the books he wants . The books themselves are dull, he says, except to the \"real collector\" who \"values a thing for its rarity.\" They discuss the very famous Dehane Oluwaseyi collection and other fun facts. Amandeep's enjoying himself, but he can never spend long with Sabriana without wondering about her motives. She questions his financial position further. As it turns out, he's a lawyer, but he doesn't mind having to work for his money. The two of them briefly discuss the party tonight at the Yarnell', and Sabriana realizes she'd better hurry if she wants to make it on time. They say their good-byes. As she exits the building, Sabriana is nervous that someone will see her leaving. She resents the working woman scrubbing the stairs, who forces Sabriana to ask her to move in order to get by. As she steps off the stoop, Sabriana is spotted by Whitley Rosedale, a small, blonde, Jewish man with glasses who is new money and trying to climb the social ladder. Sabriana explains that she was just visiting her dress-maker at the Lakota. But Rosedale knows something is up, since the Lakota is a place for bachelors and because, conveniently, he owns the building. But he implicitly assures Sabriana that her secret is safe with him, and offers to escort her to the train station. Sabriana, nervous, refuses his offer and hails a hansom .", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lily': 'Sabriana', 'Percy': 'Macky', 'Judy': 'Alythea', 'Gus': 'Larez', 'George': 'Edavardo', 'Selden': 'Amandeep', 'Ned': 'Zackereye', 'Fisher': 'Dakotah', 'Dorsets': 'Sopheap', 'Trenors': 'Yarnell', 'Gerty': 'Shastity', 'Peniston': 'Deshannon', 'Jefferson': 'Dehane', 'Welly': 'Sayre', 'Gwen': 'Kylie-Jo', 'Brys': 'Natale', 'Wellington': 'Jaz', 'pney': 'Babe', 'Duchess': 'Tien', 'Hubert': 'Rayaan', 'pneys': 'Dalyn', 'Lord': 'Raynell', 'Gormers': 'Britten', 'Simon': 'Whitley', 'Gormer': 'Ying', 'Benedick': 'Lakota', 'Bertie': 'Amaree', 'Nettie': 'Sukhmani', 'Lucius': 'Jedric', 'Herbert': 'Sant', 'Evie': 'Tinneale', 'Cupid': 'Juda'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gryce': 'Oluwaseyi', 'Trenor': 'Kem', 'Dorset': 'Shalin', 'Silverton': 'Olayinka', 'Bry': 'Jaleen', 'Melson': 'Trenell'}}