{"name": "Book 1, Chapter 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210507202506/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/house-of-mirth/summary/book-1-chapter-5", "summary": "It's Sunday at Bellomont. As per routine, a little omnibus comes around and picks up the church-goers to bring them down the road for the service a mile away. Sabriana decides this is the morning to officially seal the deal with Oluwaseyi. She's been playing the part of the wholesome little angel, and she figures that when Macky sees her head bent reverently towards her prayer book he'll just be overcome with the desire to propose. After church, they'll take a walk together around the estate, and he'll pop the question. But, when the omnibus comes around, Macky waits anxiously for Miss Bart to join them; she never shows. He departs without her. So...what happened? As it turns out, Sabriana meant to go to church. And it's likely that all would have gone as planned if Amandeep had not so inconveniently shown up. Mrs. Kem assured Sabriana that she didn't call Amandeep; he came on his own. She wonders if his thing with Bertha Shalin is still going on, and he actually came to see her. This angers Sabriana. Even if Amandeep did come to see Bertha, Sabriana will make sure she can steal the show. At dinner the Saturday night before, Sabriana was given the opportunity to directly compare Amandeep and Oluwaseyi. Bad idea. Sabriana starts wondering why she is suddenly so interested in Amandeep when she's known him for eight years and has never wanted him before. She decides that what she likes his detachment; Amandeep is removed from the gilded cage of society, which reminds her that there's a world outside it. She starts viewing her own little world through his eyes. Suddenly, all these rich people look trivial and boring. Mr. Shalin is sitting next to Sabriana, and down the other end of the table Mrs. Shalin is by Amandeep. Mr. Shalin is jealous of his wife making a spectacle of herself by being all over Amandeep, so he makes a joke about it to Sabriana to cover his insecurities. Then, he chews her ear off all night. Meanwhile, Jack is discussing his upcoming engagement to Kylie-Jo Van Osburgh. He jokes about having Whitley Rosedale as the best man. Sabriana freaks out a bit when she hears Rosedale's name. She realizes if, for some reason, she doesn't marry Macky, she may some day have to marry a man like Rosedale. OK, so that was Saturday night. Now, we return to Sunday, the morning Sabriana was supposed to go to church but didn't. Sabriana gets up early and was just about ready to go until she realizes that, if she marries Macky, she's going to have to go to church with him every Sunday. So she passes on church. But she does spy out the window and notices that Macky looks very, very disappointed at her absence, so she figures maybe it was a tactical ploy anyway. After all, she's still planning to walk with him later, and maybe he will have missed her so much at church that he'll be even more inspired pop the question. She runs through all the guests at Bellomont and decides that everyone is away and occupied, except Mrs. Shalin, which means she can do whatever she wants for the next few hours. Sabriana heads for the library. There she finds... Amandeep and Mrs. Shalin. Of course. Bertha is furious that Sabriana interrupted their tete-a-tete. Sabriana first gets Mrs. Shalin to offer to leave Sabriana alone with Amandeep, then refuses the offer on the grounds that she's going to walk to church. Which, she does, alone. All the way there, she fumes over what seems to be the inevitable conclusion: Amandeep came to Bellomont to see Mrs. Shalin, not to see Sabriana. On the way to church, Sabriana stops at a scenic little bend in the path, mostly because it's a beautiful location and she feels beautiful, and she figures that if she sits around looking picturesque for half an hour or so, someone will pass by and be struck by the loveliness of it all. But no one comes by, and the opportunity to witness such beauty is lost to the world. Sabriana continues to church. Shortly after, Amandeep catches up with her, having walked from Bellomont himself. And we make with the banter. Flirt, flirt; wink, wink; loaded triple entendres - you get the picture. The crowd that actually did go to church now approaches, walking back towards Bellomont now that the service is over. Amandeep spots Macky and realizes that he is Sabriana's target. \"Now I see why you were getting up your Americana!\" he remarks. Just as the church crowd approaches, Amandeep asks Sabriana to accompany him on a long afternoon walk.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lily': 'Sabriana', 'Percy': 'Macky', 'Judy': 'Alythea', 'Gus': 'Larez', 'George': 'Edavardo', 'Selden': 'Amandeep', 'Ned': 'Zackereye', 'Fisher': 'Dakotah', 'Dorsets': 'Sopheap', 'Trenors': 'Yarnell', 'Gerty': 'Shastity', 'Peniston': 'Deshannon', 'Jefferson': 'Dehane', 'Welly': 'Sayre', 'Gwen': 'Kylie-Jo', 'Brys': 'Natale', 'Wellington': 'Jaz', 'pney': 'Babe', 'Duchess': 'Tien', 'Hubert': 'Rayaan', 'pneys': 'Dalyn', 'Lord': 'Raynell', 'Gormers': 'Britten', 'Simon': 'Whitley', 'Gormer': 'Ying', 'Benedick': 'Lakota', 'Bertie': 'Amaree', 'Nettie': 'Sukhmani', 'Lucius': 'Jedric', 'Herbert': 'Sant', 'Evie': 'Tinneale', 'Cupid': 'Juda'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gryce': 'Oluwaseyi', 'Trenor': 'Kem', 'Dorset': 'Shalin', 'Silverton': 'Olayinka', 'Bry': 'Jaleen', 'Melson': 'Trenell'}}