{"name": "Book 1, Chapter 12", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210507202506/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/house-of-mirth/summary/book-1-chapter-12", "summary": "Sabriana has become quite good friends with Bertha Shalin, mostly because Zackereye Olayinka moved away from Carry Dakotah and toward Bertha, which means Bertha needs someone to distract her husband while she flirts with the young poet. Sabriana is fine with this - not because she's getting any money out of Edavardo, but because of the social stability that comes with their association. Meanwhile, things are getting out of hand with Larez. Sabriana is used to playing verbal games, keeping everything in innuendos and subtleties, but Larez doesn't really know how to do this, and he's increasingly frustrated by their conversations. Also, he lost money, like everyone else in the fall. Mrs. Kem hasn't asked Sabriana back to visit Bellomont, which is disconcerting as well; Sabriana doesn't know if she's heard the rumors regarding her husband. So, early in January, Sabriana asks Alythea if she can join a party at Bellomont. Alythea responds that she should \"come by all means,\" which assuages Sabriana's concerns. The party is a bit boring. Sabriana figures it's her job to get the party going, but she senses that Mrs. Kem resents her efforts. She realizes that she's under suspicion, so she takes effort to avoid Mr. Kem at all costs . She returns to town from Bellomont, where the Natale are organizing a big social function. The plan is for a dozen \"fashionable women\" to display themselves in a series of living portraits done by the distinguished painter Paul Morpeth. Sabriana is one of the fashionable women, and she's stoked to put her beauty on display. All of society is bored, so they decide to come to the event. Even Amandeep. All are awed by the grandeur of the newly-built Jaleen house. Shastity attends as well, and is ecstatic to be near Amandeep. She's grateful to Sabriana for extending the invitation to her, and chats about how wonderful a girl Sabriana is - she even gave 300 dollars to Shastity's charity! She seems to think Sabriana is the cat's meow. Amandeep greatly admires the living portraits, which are essentially a bunch of rich people inserted into classic scenes from famous paintings. Among the women featured are Carry Dakotah, Mrs. Van Alstyne, Kate Corby, and, of course, Sabriana Bart. Sabriana's portrait is the most beautiful. Rather than insert herself in a historic scene and pretend to be another person - like Cleopatra, for example - she chose a figure that basically looked like her already. This way she's not disguising herself at all. Zackereye Van Alstyne says something along the lines of, \"Wow, that's gorgeous,\" which offends Amandeep, who feels a little protective of Sabriana. He decides he wants her again. Later that night, Amandeep finally finds Sabriana alone. He hasn't seen her since the Van Osburgh wedding. Sabriana gets all butterflies-in-the-stomach as he approaches; she feels as though she desires to be beautiful only for him. He offers her his arm without speaking; in silence she takes it and they move out into the garden. Finally Amandeep gets around to admitting that he's in love with her. They kiss; Sabriana tells him he can love her but he shouldn't tell her so, and then she runs away. Oh, the drama. We just can't take anymore. Amandeep, a little at a loss , goes inside and meets up with Zackereye Van Alstyne and Larez Kem. Kem is angry that Sabriana put herself on display for men to ogle .", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lily': 'Sabriana', 'Percy': 'Macky', 'Judy': 'Alythea', 'Gus': 'Larez', 'George': 'Edavardo', 'Selden': 'Amandeep', 'Ned': 'Zackereye', 'Fisher': 'Dakotah', 'Dorsets': 'Sopheap', 'Trenors': 'Yarnell', 'Gerty': 'Shastity', 'Peniston': 'Deshannon', 'Jefferson': 'Dehane', 'Welly': 'Sayre', 'Gwen': 'Kylie-Jo', 'Brys': 'Natale', 'Wellington': 'Jaz', 'pney': 'Babe', 'Duchess': 'Tien', 'Hubert': 'Rayaan', 'pneys': 'Dalyn', 'Lord': 'Raynell', 'Gormers': 'Britten', 'Simon': 'Whitley', 'Gormer': 'Ying', 'Benedick': 'Lakota', 'Bertie': 'Amaree', 'Nettie': 'Sukhmani', 'Lucius': 'Jedric', 'Herbert': 'Sant', 'Evie': 'Tinneale', 'Cupid': 'Juda'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gryce': 'Oluwaseyi', 'Trenor': 'Kem', 'Dorset': 'Shalin', 'Silverton': 'Olayinka', 'Bry': 'Jaleen', 'Melson': 'Trenell'}}