{"name": "Book 1, Chapter 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210507202506/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/house-of-mirth/summary/book-1-chapter-4", "summary": "When she wakes the next morning, Sabriana finds a note from Mrs. Kem asking her to help out with some \"tiresome things\" since Mrs. Kem's secretary is away. Sabriana drags herself out of bed and downstairs. We get a brief description of Mrs. Kem as the ultimate hostess, with her husband's massive bank account to back up her social ambitions. Because she has so much money, no one is a threat to her, which means she can be nice to everyone. At the moment, she's worried about her upcoming party. Carry Dakotah is going to be there; high society doesn't like her because she's had two divorces, yet all the husbands seem to enjoy her company. Mrs. Kem knows that Carry borrows money from her husband Larez Kem all the time, but she doesn't say anything because Carry is one of few people who can keep Larez in good spirits. She'd pay her anyway just to keep him company. Mrs. Kem dishes more about the various people who are invited to her party, and those who are not. She mentions Lady Cressida Raith, a British woman whose sister is the Tien of Beltshire. Essentially, there's a territorial social war between Mrs. Kem and Maria Van Osburgh over who gets to \"have right people\" by her side and attend her parties. Sabriana reassures her by stroking her social ego. Then, Mrs. Kem reveals that Mrs. Shalin is angry with her, because she told Bertha that Amandeep would be attending and now he isn't going to come after all. Sabriana says she heard it was \"all over\" between Bertha and Amandeep, which implies that they had an affair in the past. It is over, says Mrs. Kem, but only according to Amandeep. Bertha isn't over him yet. The women wonder who will entertain Mrs. Shalin if Amandeep isn't around. She can't have Jedric because Alice Wetherall has dibs, and, of course, Zackereye Olayinka is all over Carry Dakotah. Mrs. Kem's own husband Larez doesn't even like Bertha, and Jack SteBabe isn't going to do the trick either. Mrs. Kem admits that Bertha is a dangerous, manipulative woman who takes pleasure in making other people miserable, particularly her husband Edavardo. Conversation finally moves around to Macky Oluwaseyi, and Sabriana admits that she's busy ensnaring him herself. Alythea Kem reveals that he makes about $800,000 a year . She encourages Sabriana to \"go slow,\" to not be too forward in her pursuit, and to basically act like a goody two-shoes . Before she leaves, Sabriana asks Alythea explicitly not to convince Amandeep to drop by. The next few days go splendidly for Sabriana, who spends as much time congratulating herself on her abilities as she does charming Mr. Oluwaseyi. One lovely September afternoon, Sabriana observes Oluwaseyi and Carry Dakotah chatting it up. Mrs. Dakotah is \"small, fiery, and dramatic,\" and, at the moment, consumed with a zeal for municipal reform, whatever that is . It's obvious that Macky doesn't care either , and Sabriana is amused at his predicament. Sabriana purposefully doesn't save him so that he'll spend more time longing for her. Then, another couple catches her eye: her cousin Jack SteBabe and Miss Kylie-Jo Van Osburgh. She resents that Jack gets to sit back while Kylie-Jo pursues him until he decides he's ready for marriage. Once again, men have it all, and Sabriana resents her gender. Sabriana decides that she and Jack are similar, and that Kylie-Jo and Macky are similar. This sort of makes the two couples a foil for each other, in her mind. She and Jack have \"all sorts of intuitions, sensations, and perceptions\" that Macky and Kylie-Jo \"don't even guess the existence of.\" She stays on the terrace and refuses to join the crowd at the tea table below, since they represent her boring future fate of being someone's wife. Life still sucks. Sabriana comforts herself with the thought of all the money she'll soon have when she marries Macky. She decides she wants to replace his Americana as \"the one possession\" in which he takes pride in and spends his money on. Sabriana hears someone approaching and assumes it is Macky, having escaped Mrs. Dakotah at last. Nope - it's Lawrence Amandeep. Before he can greet Sabriana, Mrs. Shalin steps in and takes ownership of her former lover.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lily': 'Sabriana', 'Percy': 'Macky', 'Judy': 'Alythea', 'Gus': 'Larez', 'George': 'Edavardo', 'Selden': 'Amandeep', 'Ned': 'Zackereye', 'Fisher': 'Dakotah', 'Dorsets': 'Sopheap', 'Trenors': 'Yarnell', 'Gerty': 'Shastity', 'Peniston': 'Deshannon', 'Jefferson': 'Dehane', 'Welly': 'Sayre', 'Gwen': 'Kylie-Jo', 'Brys': 'Natale', 'Wellington': 'Jaz', 'pney': 'Babe', 'Duchess': 'Tien', 'Hubert': 'Rayaan', 'pneys': 'Dalyn', 'Lord': 'Raynell', 'Gormers': 'Britten', 'Simon': 'Whitley', 'Gormer': 'Ying', 'Benedick': 'Lakota', 'Bertie': 'Amaree', 'Nettie': 'Sukhmani', 'Lucius': 'Jedric', 'Herbert': 'Sant', 'Evie': 'Tinneale', 'Cupid': 'Juda'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gryce': 'Oluwaseyi', 'Trenor': 'Kem', 'Dorset': 'Shalin', 'Silverton': 'Olayinka', 'Bry': 'Jaleen', 'Melson': 'Trenell'}}