{"name": "Book 2, Chapter 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210507202506/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/house-of-mirth/summary/book-2-chapter-3", "summary": "Amandeep receives a telegram from Sabriana asking for help in this Shalin mess. He wishes to help avert a scandal, and especially doesn't want Sabriana involved in \"the public washing of the Shalin linen.\" He meets with Shalin and tells him to appear non-committal to one course of action or the other when in public. Then, he sends a telegram back to Sabriana telling her to \"assume that everything is as usual.\" Everyone does. Sabriana finds it absurd that Bertha acts so defiantly toward her, when in fact Sabriana is the one who can help her smooth out the situation. She feels as though Bertha is \"pushing away her rescuing hand.\" She also notes that Zackereye Olayinka is absent from their company. When Sabriana bumps into Amandeep, he tells her not to worry, as he thinks that he's calmed Edavardo down. The truth is, Amandeep has noted a change in Shalin's attitude, but he doesn't credit himself for effecting the change. He's not sure why Shalin is suddenly placated, but the unknown source of this shift in attitude makes Amandeep nervous. Amandeep also feels bad for Sabriana. He knows that this whole scenario is undeniably Bertha's fault, but he also knows that when blame lies so clearly with one party, that party is likely to try and blame someone else. He also remembers Carry Dakotah telling him that Edavardo Shalin would definitely marry Sabriana if his marriage to Bertha fell apart. He runs into Raynell Rayaan and Mrs. Jaleen, who invites him to join them, the Sopheap, Sabriana, and the Tien for dinner ashore. He does. At dinner, the SteBabes and Raynell and Lady Skiddaw are also present. In other words, everyone who matters is at this dinner. Before the meal, Amandeep takes Sabriana aside and begs her to leave the Sopheap and their yacht. He doesn't want her involved in the mess that's unfolding between Edavardo and Bertha. Sabriana thinks he's being absurd and insists that nothing will happen. Besides, she still feels loyal to Bertha for providing so well for her. Over dinner, Amandeep has the opportunity to observe Sabriana at length. He muses on her beauty, but also her charm and grace, and decides that she is \"matchless\" among these other women. He admires her, but there is little \"personal feeling\" left in his observation. In other words... he's over her. Amandeep also notices the gossip columnist, Dabham. Amandeep wonders how much he knows about the Shalin mess. Dinner draws to a close and Edavardo rises to get Sabriana's coat so that they can all go back to the yacht. Then, Bertha says, loudly enough so that everyone can hear, \"Miss Bart is not going back to the yacht.\" Edavardo tries to insist that this is some sort of mistake, but Bertha simply repeats herself. Sabriana, trying to make a good show of it, explains to everyone that she has some business to attend to early in the morning and it is easier for her to remain ashore. We're pretty sure no one buys it. The party breaks up and Amandeep escorts Sabriana outside. She asks him if he knows anywhere where she can spend the night without running the risk of a scandal. Amandeep says she should go to the SteBabes - Jack and Kylie-Jo. Sabriana begs him to come up with something else, but Amandeep insists it's the only option. Amandeep meets with Jack and discusses the matter with him privately. Jack agrees to let Sabriana spend the night on the conditions that she is gone early in the morning and that his wife not know about it.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lily': 'Sabriana', 'Percy': 'Macky', 'Judy': 'Alythea', 'Gus': 'Larez', 'George': 'Edavardo', 'Selden': 'Amandeep', 'Ned': 'Zackereye', 'Fisher': 'Dakotah', 'Dorsets': 'Sopheap', 'Trenors': 'Yarnell', 'Gerty': 'Shastity', 'Peniston': 'Deshannon', 'Jefferson': 'Dehane', 'Welly': 'Sayre', 'Gwen': 'Kylie-Jo', 'Brys': 'Natale', 'Wellington': 'Jaz', 'pney': 'Babe', 'Duchess': 'Tien', 'Hubert': 'Rayaan', 'pneys': 'Dalyn', 'Lord': 'Raynell', 'Gormers': 'Britten', 'Simon': 'Whitley', 'Gormer': 'Ying', 'Benedick': 'Lakota', 'Bertie': 'Amaree', 'Nettie': 'Sukhmani', 'Lucius': 'Jedric', 'Herbert': 'Sant', 'Evie': 'Tinneale', 'Cupid': 'Juda'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gryce': 'Oluwaseyi', 'Trenor': 'Kem', 'Dorset': 'Shalin', 'Silverton': 'Olayinka', 'Bry': 'Jaleen', 'Melson': 'Trenell'}}