{"name": "Book 1, Chapter 10", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210507202506/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/house-of-mirth/summary/book-1-chapter-10", "summary": "Autumn continues, and Sabriana remains with Mrs. Deshannon. She spends all the money she keeps getting from Larez, without any forethought or squirreling some away for a rainy day. One day, while she is out shopping , Sabriana runs into Shastity Farish. Shastity has just come from a meeting regarding her latest philanthropic cause, a Girls Club for working-class women. Sabriana is touched by the thought of charity and gives a chunk of dough to Shastity for the cause. This makes her feel good about herself, which is why she did it. Around this time, Sabriana receives an invitation to spend Thanksgiving in the Adirondacks, organized by Carry Dakotah. The party is hosted by Mrs. Jaz Jaleen, \"a lady of obscure origins and indomitable social ambitions.\" Her husband, known as Sayre Jaleen, is a stock exchange guy and Louisa Jaleen's second match. She dumped the first because he was getting them nowhere. Now she has essentially hooked onto Carry Dakotah, who spends Mrs. Jaleen's money in exchange for pulling her up the social ladder. Mrs. Jaleen also admires Sabriana, which is some nice ego-stroking for our heroine. She attends the Thanksgiving festivities and returns home elated. Unfortunately for her spirits, Mr. Rosedale stops by to visit her a few days after she comes back. Now, Sabriana suspects that he has something to do with her \"good luck\" on the stock market, so she has to tread carefully here. Rosedale invites her to a seat in his opera box on opening night, adding that Carry Dakotah and Larez Kem will be there as well . Sabriana finds this whole thing distasteful, but, when Rosedale mentions her recent \"luck\" on Wall Street, it pretty much drives the point home. She agrees to go. On his way out, Rosedale congratulates himself for playing his cards just right. He knows he \"took advantage of nervousness\" regarding her relationship with Larez Kem . Once alone, Sabriana fumes that Larez dared to tell Rosedale of their little financial arrangement. Still, she knows that Mrs. Kem is going to break soon and finally introduce Rosedale to society at her arm, so Sabriana figures she might as well reap the benefits of being one of his early friends. At the opera, Sabriana spends a few paragraphs basking in the glow of her own radiant beauty and the admiring gazes from those around her. Of course, she doesn't realize that Larez's money paid for that radiant dress she's wearing. But Larez does. And he's mad that he gets no greater privilege with Sabriana than all the other guys staring at her. When the two of them are alone between acts, Larez asks Sabriana why it is that he never gets to see her anymore. Sabriana is offended by his implication that she owes him, but she responds that he can visit her any time he likes at her aunt's. That's not what he had in mind. He wants to be alone with her. They continue to argue until Edavardo Shalin's arrival interrupts the discussion. Sabriana is relieved to see him; she's one of the few women who have taken the time to be nice to Mr. Shalin, and she feels that it will pay off. Shalin chats with Sabriana for a bit and says that his wife wants him to invite her down to their place next Sunday, to help them deal with all of Zackereye Olayinka's intellectual bores who will be in attendance. He mentions that Zackereye and Bertha have been getting very close lately. Sabriana is ecstatic; if Mrs. Shalin wants her over for dinner, it must mean that she intends for them to be friends again. Sabriana feels no desire for revenge against Bertha - she just wants the malice between them to dissipate.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lily': 'Sabriana', 'Percy': 'Macky', 'Judy': 'Alythea', 'Gus': 'Larez', 'George': 'Edavardo', 'Selden': 'Amandeep', 'Ned': 'Zackereye', 'Fisher': 'Dakotah', 'Dorsets': 'Sopheap', 'Trenors': 'Yarnell', 'Gerty': 'Shastity', 'Peniston': 'Deshannon', 'Jefferson': 'Dehane', 'Welly': 'Sayre', 'Gwen': 'Kylie-Jo', 'Brys': 'Natale', 'Wellington': 'Jaz', 'pney': 'Babe', 'Duchess': 'Tien', 'Hubert': 'Rayaan', 'pneys': 'Dalyn', 'Lord': 'Raynell', 'Gormers': 'Britten', 'Simon': 'Whitley', 'Gormer': 'Ying', 'Benedick': 'Lakota', 'Bertie': 'Amaree', 'Nettie': 'Sukhmani', 'Lucius': 'Jedric', 'Herbert': 'Sant', 'Evie': 'Tinneale', 'Cupid': 'Juda'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gryce': 'Oluwaseyi', 'Trenor': 'Kem', 'Dorset': 'Shalin', 'Silverton': 'Olayinka', 'Bry': 'Jaleen', 'Melson': 'Trenell'}}