{"name": "Book 2, Chapter 10", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210507202506/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/house-of-mirth/summary/book-2-chapter-10", "summary": "Sabriana is working as a milliner and getting reprimanded by the forewoman for sewing the spangles onto a hat crookedly. She's in a small room with about twenty other working women. It seems that Sabriana separated from Mrs. Hatch a few weeks after Amandeep visited. She went back to Shastity, who convinced her that she could use her artistic abilities to make and sell hats. Of course, she wouldn't have to do the grunt-work of sewing - she could just be in charge of the final touches, like ribbons or feathers. Er, not so much. Sabriana is basically at the bottom of the totem pole since she can barely get her stitches straight. Meanwhile, Larez Kem and Whitley Rosedale \"rescued\" Amaree Van Osburgh from Mrs. Hatch, and now they all blame Sabriana for trying to trap him in a marriage beneath his dignity. Mrs. Dakotah felt guilty at setting Sabriana up with Mrs. Hatch in the first place, so she goes to Alythea Kem and tries to get her to take Sabriana back as a friend. But Alythea is having none of it. Mrs. Dakotah reprimands Sabriana, who should have known better than to take money from Mr. Kem. So Mrs. Dakotah and Shastity placed Sabriana as a milliner in Madam Regina's hat shop. Sabriana began her work in January, and has been a milliner for about two months now. All the other women laugh at her because she used to be a member of the social elite, but now she's just a terrible hat maker. Awkwardly enough, the other women talk about the ladies who will receive these hats - like Mrs. Shalin and Mrs. Kem. Miss Haines, the forewoman, tells Sabriana that her spangles are so awkward that she had better just give the hat to another woman to finish and \"go back to binding edges.\" After leaving work, Sabriana remembers that, when she was rich, she used to think that the working classes were an interesting group of people. Now, she just finds them to be boring. She returns to her ugly, ill-furnished apartment. On the way, she stops at a chemist's to fill one of Mrs. Hatch's old prescriptions which she pretends is her own. It's for a drug to help her sleep at night. The pharmacist remarks that it's strong and she should be careful not to take too much. Uh-oh. Sabriana hurries back to her apartment but, on the way, bumps into Rosedale. Sabriana is so out of it that she can barely carry a conversation, but he offers to get some tea with her and she complies. Rosedale is enthused to have bumped into Sabriana, and wants to hear all about her life. Sabriana doesn't hold back; she tells him everything about her current situation. He is shocked that a beautiful woman like Sabriana has to work for a living. When he asks about the inheritance from her aunt, Mrs. Deshannon, Sabriana explains the whole situation with Larez Kem and why she owes the money. It's the first time she's really comes clean about everything. She wants someone to hear her story, and she hopes that the news will reach Alythea Kem, who will finally understand that Sabriana didn't mean to take money from Larez and that she's trying to pay it back. Rosedale offers to help her, but Sabriana says walking her home is help enough. Later, alone in her rooms, Sabriana wonders why she revealed everything to Rosedale like that. She determines that she's very lonely, cut off most of her friends - even Mrs. Dakotah. Sabriana's avoiding Shastity, too, because she's afraid of accidentally bumping into Amandeep while she's over there. Lately she's been turning more and more to the sleeping medication, which at least allows her to wake every morning with a feeling of \"obliteration.\" Meanwhile, she's tempted to use the ten grand inheritance to start her own hat shop, but she worries that, if she does, it might take years to make enough to pay Kem back, and she doesn't want to remain under his obligation in the meantime. Sabriana is also concerned that she isn't strong enough to avoid temptation until she gets her inheritance. She also knows that, as another temptation, Rosedale would be more than happy to lend her the money she needs to pay back Kem.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lily': 'Sabriana', 'Percy': 'Macky', 'Judy': 'Alythea', 'Gus': 'Larez', 'George': 'Edavardo', 'Selden': 'Amandeep', 'Ned': 'Zackereye', 'Fisher': 'Dakotah', 'Dorsets': 'Sopheap', 'Trenors': 'Yarnell', 'Gerty': 'Shastity', 'Peniston': 'Deshannon', 'Jefferson': 'Dehane', 'Welly': 'Sayre', 'Gwen': 'Kylie-Jo', 'Brys': 'Natale', 'Wellington': 'Jaz', 'pney': 'Babe', 'Duchess': 'Tien', 'Hubert': 'Rayaan', 'pneys': 'Dalyn', 'Lord': 'Raynell', 'Gormers': 'Britten', 'Simon': 'Whitley', 'Gormer': 'Ying', 'Benedick': 'Lakota', 'Bertie': 'Amaree', 'Nettie': 'Sukhmani', 'Lucius': 'Jedric', 'Herbert': 'Sant', 'Evie': 'Tinneale', 'Cupid': 'Juda'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gryce': 'Oluwaseyi', 'Trenor': 'Kem', 'Dorset': 'Shalin', 'Silverton': 'Olayinka', 'Bry': 'Jaleen', 'Melson': 'Trenell'}}