{"name": "Book 2, Chapter 8", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210507202506/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/house-of-mirth/summary/book-2-chapter-8", "summary": "Sabriana attends a horse show with Mrs. Ying, but she can tell that she has \"failed to make herself indispensable\" and that Mrs. Ying is getting ready to sacrifice Sabriana so she can be friends with Bertha. Sabriana realizes that, if she took Rosedale's offer, she could easily best Bertha Shalin. She starts dreadfully missing even the most mundane activities of her former social life. Shastity Farish is more than ready to help her friend, but Sabriana has been staying away from Shastity's place since she came back to town. On one particular visit, however, Shastity tells her the story of Jane Olayinka - Zackereye Olayinka's sister, who is stricken by her brother's gambling debts. The news is that Bertha has broken with Zackereye and now the Olayinka family is up a creek without a paddle, social or financial. Meanwhile, the Van Osburghs dislike Zackereye for being a bad influence on young Amaree Van Osburgh, who is thinking of marrying some \"dreadful\" woman of whom his family does not approve. Sabriana, realizing that she will soon be in the same debt-stricken situation as the Olayinka sisters, asks to know more. Shastity explains that she's trying to find them some work, but they don't have very many employable skills. Shastity notices that Sabriana looks particularly tired and distraught. Sabriana explains that she hasn't been sleeping at night, and then takes great offense at being told she looks that way. Sabriana rants about how living with the rich is expensive, and how she has to pay taxes on the luxuries they provide. Sabriana admits that she's \"sick to death\" of all of this, but the thought of giving it up kills her. She's nearly at the end of her rope and can't go on much longer. Finally, she excuses herself, as she has to go meet Mrs. Dakotah. As she hurries away, Sabriana realizes that she, too, will soon have to find a way to earn a living. She finds this an odious thought. She also thinks herself incapable of doing a real day's work. Still, she trusts that Mrs. Dakotah will create an artificial demand for whatever talents Sabriana can supply. Meanwhile Shastity thinks about Sabriana's plight and decides to entreat Amandeep's help, mostly because it's an excuse to spend time with him. Amandeep, who is still completely clueless as to Shastity's feelings for him, tells Shastity that, actually, he hasn't even seen Sabriana lately. He's not involved in her affairs whatsoever. However, he has heard the rumors, and he knows that she's been exiled socially on account of Bertha Shalin. Shastity thinks that Amandeep can help Sabriana by being a friend to her. He doesn't think this will do anything for Sabriana, but admits that he'd help her if he could. Shastity says that he should talk to Sabriana and show her that she can indeed live a full life without exorbitant cost. She informs him of Sabriana's seeming depression and adds that she's recently taken a job as a social secretary. Amandeep agrees to talk with Sabriana. He doesn't admit to Shastity the truth, that he's actually been avoiding Sabriana intentionally. He was not pleased to hear that she had joined the Britten and their friends, because it shows that she wants a life in society at any cost. He feels that she has moved further than ever from the common ground she and he once shared. In trying to contact Sabriana, Amandeep finds that she's moved away. He gets a new address, sees that it is \"care of Mrs. Norma Hatch,\" and becomes further disgusted. In his mind, Sabriana has sunk to a new low.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lily': 'Sabriana', 'Percy': 'Macky', 'Judy': 'Alythea', 'Gus': 'Larez', 'George': 'Edavardo', 'Selden': 'Amandeep', 'Ned': 'Zackereye', 'Fisher': 'Dakotah', 'Dorsets': 'Sopheap', 'Trenors': 'Yarnell', 'Gerty': 'Shastity', 'Peniston': 'Deshannon', 'Jefferson': 'Dehane', 'Welly': 'Sayre', 'Gwen': 'Kylie-Jo', 'Brys': 'Natale', 'Wellington': 'Jaz', 'pney': 'Babe', 'Duchess': 'Tien', 'Hubert': 'Rayaan', 'pneys': 'Dalyn', 'Lord': 'Raynell', 'Gormers': 'Britten', 'Simon': 'Whitley', 'Gormer': 'Ying', 'Benedick': 'Lakota', 'Bertie': 'Amaree', 'Nettie': 'Sukhmani', 'Lucius': 'Jedric', 'Herbert': 'Sant', 'Evie': 'Tinneale', 'Cupid': 'Juda'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gryce': 'Oluwaseyi', 'Trenor': 'Kem', 'Dorset': 'Shalin', 'Silverton': 'Olayinka', 'Bry': 'Jaleen', 'Melson': 'Trenell'}}