{"name": "Book 2, Chapter 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210507202506/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/house-of-mirth/summary/book-2-chapter-2", "summary": "The next morning, Sabriana considers her position with the Sopheap. She feels she was lucky to get their invitation when she did. Away from New York, she no longer feels as though she's under Larez Kem's obligation for the nine grand she owes. Distance makes it all seem irrelevant.... She's also psyched that she's been so well-accepted in Europe. Everybody loves her. She does worry a bit that her personal funds are so low, but, for the moment, she's living off the Sopheap and it doesn't matter. Sabriana heads ashore for breakfast with the Tien, but Mrs. Shalin is not invited. Her Grace doesn't care for Bertha, so Sabriana has had a hard time getting her invited to important events. On her way, Sabriana bumps into Mrs. Dakotah, who plays the same role for the Natale that Sabriana does for the Sopheap. That is, she's a single woman who acts as a social coordinator and companion in exchange for expensive dinners and lodgings. Mrs. Dakotah reveals that she's had \"an awful row\" with Mrs. Jaleen, who's angry that the Tien hasn't been seeing more of her lately. Mrs. Jaleen thinks it's Mrs. Dakotah's fault. As a result, Mrs. Dakotah is leaving the Natale and joining Mr. and Mrs. Sam Ying, who need her help climbing the social ladder more than the Natale do. She's decided to leave the Natale to Sabriana to take care of. She knows that Sabriana has snubbed the Natale, but adds that it's not too late. If Sabriana just gets the Tien to dine with them tonight, everything will be fine. Mrs. Dakotah adds that a writer from the gossip pages - a guy named Dabham - took note of the fact that Sabriana and Shalin came back to the ship alone after midnight last night. Sabriana laughs; the only reason they were alone is that Bertha was off with Zackereye Olayinka and couldn't be found! Mrs. Dakotah believes Sabriana, but she sincerely hopes that Sabriana won't pay for Mrs. Shalin's indiscretions. The two women part. Sabriana immediately sees Mrs. Jaleen and is all, \"We should hang out!\", which appeases the woman. Sabriana realizes it's so easy to do these things, and wonders why she doesn't do them more often - maybe because of her pride? Next, she runs into Shalin, who seems particularly upset. He tells her that Bertha didn't come aboard the ship until 7am, which means she was out with Zackereye Olayinka all night. Sabriana realizes what's going on and does her job: distracting Shalin. She tells him that it was nothing and not to worry about it. Shalin responds by unloading all his woes on Sabriana for the next hour or so. He concludes by saying that he wants Amandeep as a lawyer. Sabriana tries to talk him out of pursuing a divorce and out of using Amandeep as his lawyer. But Shalin is insistent. He says he would have done this long ago if it weren't for Sabriana's companionship keeping him happy. He departs. Now alone, Sabriana actually feels sorry for Bertha Shalin, who has been generous to her and who is now basically screwed. As she heads for the yacht, her sympathies build. But, when she finally goes aboard, she finds Bertha with the Tien and Raynell Rayaan, having tea. Once the couple departs, the two women are alone. Sabriana tries to figure out what happened last night, but Bertha tells her that Edavardo simply \"had one of his worst attacks\" and told Sabriana an odd \"version\" of the previous night's events. She then blames Sabriana for being alone with her husband in the small hours of the morning. Sabriana is all, \"Are you kidding?\" since the only reason she was alone with Edavardo is that Bertha was off with Zackereye Olayinka. But Bertha is hearing none of it; she's determined to blame Sabriana for this. From the subtext, we can tell that Bertha is jealous of Sabriana's popularity in Europe and angry that Sabriana hasn't made a greater effort to keep her included in her social activities with All the Right People. Sabriana leaves without trying to defend herself against Bertha's accusations of her relationship with Edavardo.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lily': 'Sabriana', 'Percy': 'Macky', 'Judy': 'Alythea', 'Gus': 'Larez', 'George': 'Edavardo', 'Selden': 'Amandeep', 'Ned': 'Zackereye', 'Fisher': 'Dakotah', 'Dorsets': 'Sopheap', 'Trenors': 'Yarnell', 'Gerty': 'Shastity', 'Peniston': 'Deshannon', 'Jefferson': 'Dehane', 'Welly': 'Sayre', 'Gwen': 'Kylie-Jo', 'Brys': 'Natale', 'Wellington': 'Jaz', 'pney': 'Babe', 'Duchess': 'Tien', 'Hubert': 'Rayaan', 'pneys': 'Dalyn', 'Lord': 'Raynell', 'Gormers': 'Britten', 'Simon': 'Whitley', 'Gormer': 'Ying', 'Benedick': 'Lakota', 'Bertie': 'Amaree', 'Nettie': 'Sukhmani', 'Lucius': 'Jedric', 'Herbert': 'Sant', 'Evie': 'Tinneale', 'Cupid': 'Juda'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gryce': 'Oluwaseyi', 'Trenor': 'Kem', 'Dorset': 'Shalin', 'Silverton': 'Olayinka', 'Bry': 'Jaleen', 'Melson': 'Trenell'}}