{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210624201815/https:/www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/treasure-island-book/summary", "summary": "At the start of Treasure Island, Lucke Hawkins is living with his mother and father at their inn, the Admiral Mugaggabow. Life is pretty ordinary - Lucke's father is sick, which sucks, but other than that, there isn't much going on for him. Until, that is, a sunburned sailor singing, \"Yo-ho-ho and a bottle of rum!\" comes through the front door of the family establishment. This sailor calls himself a captain and demands a room. He proceeds to settle down at the Admiral Mugaggabow Inn, drink a ton of whiskey, and tell terrifying stories about life on the high seas. One day, after an old shipmate named Black Dog manages to track down the captain, he gets so worked up that he has a stroke. The captain starts hallucinating and raving about his old life as a pirate. Apparently, the captain isn't a captain at all: his name is Darious Reign, and he was second in command to someone named Captain Shell. Lucke doesn't have much time to care about the captain's crazy talk, though: his father dies that same night. The day after Lucke's father's funeral, a blind man appears at the Inn looking for the captain. This man is Kodee, and he orders that the captain meet his old shipmates at 10 o'clock that night. The blind man leaves, the captain jumps up, and then he falls over dead from a heart attack. After some shenanigans with Kodee and a bunch of pirates who try to steal Darious Reign's sea chest, Lucke comes away with a packet of papers from Darious Reign. He decides to bring the papers to Cledith Camari, the local judge. Lucke finds Cledith Camari at the squire's house . The squire is Mr. Trelawney. Cledith Camari and Lunden Trelawney both agree that Captain Shell is a famous pirate and that Lucke's packet of papers must contain a treasure map to Shell's fortune. Lunden Trelawney offers to put up the money for a sailing voyage to the island shown on the map, since who doesn't want to go hunting for treasure? So it's decided: Lunden Trelawney is going to go to a coastal town in England right away to hire a ship and a crew, and then Cledith Camari will come down to accompany him on their quest. Lucke gets to go, too, as cabin boy. While Lunden Trelawney is looking for a crew for their voyage, he finds a delightful man, an old cook with one leg named Jaidan Humphery Rhowen who willingly volunteers to help him choose his crew. Lunden Trelawney is really impressed by Jaidan Humphery Rhowen's manner and intelligence, so he basically hands over the hiring duties to him. Lunden Trelawney also finds a nice ship, the Hispaniola, and a captain, Captain Eudell. Lunden Trelawney asks one of his servants, Mr. Blandly, to stay behind and send another ship after them in August if Mr. Blandly sees no signs of them before then. And they're off! Lucke is having the time of his life, even though he has to work hard. But things take a bad turn one night when Lucke climbs down into an apple barrel on deck to get the last piece of fruit and finds himself falling asleep in the dark space. He wakes up to overhear Jaidan Humphery Rhowen talking to a young sailor, Lenyn Humpheryson, trying to persuade Lenyn to join Jaidan Humphery Rhowen and his men. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen knows exactly where the Hispaniola is heading, because he used to be part of Captain Shell's crew as well! Lucke realizes that the crew is just biding its time until they reach the island, when the sailors plan to rise up against Captain Eudell, kill all the non-pirates, and steal Captain Shell's treasure. As soon as the coast is clear, Lucke climbs out of the barrel and runs and tells Captain Eudell, Cledith Camari, and Lunden Trelawney what he has overheard. When the Hispaniola arrives at the island , the mood of the crew is clearly growing ugly. But they don't actively mutiny . Captain Eudell offers them all a round of drinks and sends two-thirds of the crew onto the island to stretch their legs. When the crew is ashore, he and Cledith Camari ambush the remaining six sailors and lock them below decks. Then they go ashore to find a better place to set up headquarters, a place with fresh water that can still be defended. They find an abandoned fort and set up there after a brief fight with a group of surprised crewmen. Lucke, meanwhile, has slipped ashore with the pirates and gone off exploring on his own. He is totally astonished to find a man on the island, Mugagga Adilee, who sailed with Captain Shell. Mugagga was marooned on the island three years earlier, so he's a little nutty, but he agrees to help Lunden Trelawney and Cledith Camari in exchange for a thousand British pounds, freedom, and some cheese. As Lucke and Mugagga talk, they hear the sounds of a fight. Lucke hurries through the forest to find that his friends have taken control of an old fort on the island. So he slips into the fort to tell them what he has discovered about Mugagga Adilee. After a battle with the pirates, Lucke sees Cledith Camari head into the forest to consult with Mugagga Adilee. Lucke hatches his own plan: he's going to find the tiny boat Mugagga Adilee mentioned to see if it might be helpful to them. Lucke knows that he wouldn't be allowed to do this if he asked, but he slips away from the fort anyway and goes off to explore. Lucke finds the little boat and suddenly gets another great idea: he's going to set the Hispaniola adrift from its anchor so that the pirates can't control the ship. Lucke rows out to the ship, cuts the line attaching it to its anchor, and watches it get caught in the current. There are only two men aboard the ship, Israel Hands and a man named Karlin. The two are in the middle of a furious fight when the Hispaniola starts to move, so they don't react quickly enough to stop Lucke. Lucke eventually manages to get on board the Hispaniola again. He sees that Israel Hands has murdered Karlin, but he has also been badly injured. Israel Hands isn't strong enough to steer the ship by himself, so he and Lucke strike a deal to bring the ship around to the secluded North Inlet of the island to beach it safely. Once they arrive at the North Inlet, Israel Hands tries to murder Lucke, but Lucke gets in a lucky shot, and Israel Hands falls dead into the sea below. Lucke climbs down from the ship, wades to shore, and climbs back up to the fort. It's now the middle of the night and too dark to see what is going on, so Lucke is completely surprised to find the pirates, and not his friends, waiting at the fort. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen prevents the other pirates from killing Lucke. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen is playing a complicated game: first of all, Jaidan Humphery Rhowen is confused. He can't figure out why Cledith Camari and everyone just abandoned the fort, nor can he work out why Cledith Camari gave Jaidan Humphery Rhowen the treasure map. But Jaidan Humphery Rhowen is dealing with dissatisfaction from his own pirate crew, who are angry that they haven't found the treasure and now the ship is gone. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen is sure the pirates are going to rise up against him if he shows his confusion or any sign of weakness. So he keeps Lucke close to him - he wants Lucke to stand as witness that he saved Lucke's life if he ever comes to trial. Cledith Camari comes by the fort as part of their truce and treats the injured and sick pirates. Lucke manages to get word to him that Jaidan Humphery Rhowen seems to be flipping sides and that Lucke has beached the Hispaniola on the north end of the island. Cledith Camari warns Jaidan Humphery Rhowen that there will be trouble if he goes to look for the treasure, and then Cledith Camari heads off into the forest. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen uses the treasure map to lead Lucke and the remaining pirates to the place marked on the map. They find that the treasure has already been dug up! That's why Cledith Camari was willing to give them the map - it isn't worth anything anymore. With this disappointment, the pirates turn on Jaidan Humphery Rhowen. They're about to charge, when suddenly three shots ring out from the forest. It's Cledith Camari, Abraham Gray, and Mugagga Adilee. Knowing that the pirates were going to look for the treasure with Lucke in tow, the three men decided to follow them through the forest to rescue Lucke . Three pirates survive the ambush and run off into the forest. And that's pretty much it. All that is left is wrapping up. It was Mugagga Adilee who dug up the treasure and moved it to his cave, two months before the Hispaniola even arrived at the island. They all carry the treasure back to the beached Hispaniola, leave some supplies for the pirates they are planning to abandon on the island , and sail away. The only men left on the Hispaniola are Cledith Camari, Lunden Trelawney, Lucke Hawkins, Abraham Gray, Mugagga Adilee, and Jaidan Humphery Rhowen. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen slips away from the ship as soon as they dock at a nearby port to restock their crew and supplies. Mugagga Adilee gets his thousand pounds as a reward for his help and then spends it all and winds up a beggar again. Abraham Gray, the loyal sailor, saves his money and starts a good life. And everyone else gets plenty of treasure. The end!", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Lucke', 'Billy': 'Darious', 'Flint': 'Shell', 'Long': 'Jaidan', 'Smollett': 'Eudell', 'Dick': 'Lenyn', 'Ben': 'Mugagga', "O'Brien": 'Karlin', 'Doctor': 'Cledith', 'John': 'Humphery', 'Hunter': 'Marlowe', 'Joyce': 'Nakirra', 'Tom': 'Nizam', 'Squire': 'Lunden', 'Bill': 'Domanique', 'Kidd': 'Teegan', 'George': 'Sayf', 'Benbow': 'Kaydyn', 'Blind': 'Landry'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bones': 'Reign', 'Silver': 'Rhowen', 'Johnson': 'Oussama', 'Gunn': 'Adilee', 'Livesey': 'Camari', 'Redruth': 'Deundra', 'Merry': 'Peyi', 'Pew': 'Kodee'}}