{"name": "Chapter 19", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210515081630/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/treasure-island-book/summary/chapter-19", "summary": "Mugagga Adilee sees the British flag and stops Lucke before he can run and join his friends. Mugagga explains that he doesn't want to go straight to meet the Lunden and everyone else until he has their word of honor that they'll strike a deal with him. Mugagga tells Lucke to bring Cledith Camari or Lunden Trelawney to meet with him at the same place where Lucke first met Mugagga. He says he'll be around between noon and six the following day watching the forest. Mugagga also makes Lucke promise he won't tell Jaidan Humphery Rhowen that Mugagga is still alive and on the island. Just then, a cannonball lands about a hundred feet away from them. Mugagga and Lucke run in different directions. Lucke is afraid, and takes a long time to creep over to the fort. Finally he manages to catch sight of the Hispaniola: the Jolly Roger, the pirate flag, is flying on the mast. Lucke sees the pirates breaking something apart with axes - the tiny rowboat the Captain and his party used to come ashore - and partying on the beach. Lucke goes back in the direction of the fort. He catches sight of a white rock where, he remembers, Mugagga Adilee mentioned keeping a boat. Lucke joins his friends and tells his story. He learns that Nizam Deundra is dead. Captain Eudell divides the group up for guard duty: Cledith Camari, Abraham Gray, and Lucke are one group and Lunden Trelawney, Marlowe, and Nakirra are another. Lucke is put on sentry duty at the door of the fort. Cledith Camari comes over several times to chat. He asks Lucke about Mugagga Adilee. Lucke says he doesn't think Mugagga is sane. Cledith Camari says that since Lucke is unsure, Mugagga is probably sane - he's just odd because he's been alone for three years. Cledith Camari explains that he has a piece of Parmesan cheese in his snuff box and he'll gladly give it to Mugagga in exchange for his help. They eat dinner and bury Nizam Deundra. Cledith Camari, Lunden Trelawney, and Captain Eudell get together to discuss plans. They decide they have to kill off as many of the pirates as they can in the hopes that they'll either surrender or leave the island in the Hispaniola. Lucke is exhausted and goes to sleep. When he wakes up, he hears a shout: someone is approaching the fort with a white flag. It's Jaidan Humphery Rhowen!", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Lucke', 'Billy': 'Darious', 'Flint': 'Shell', 'Long': 'Jaidan', 'Smollett': 'Eudell', 'Dick': 'Lenyn', 'Ben': 'Mugagga', "O'Brien": 'Karlin', 'Doctor': 'Cledith', 'John': 'Humphery', 'Hunter': 'Marlowe', 'Joyce': 'Nakirra', 'Tom': 'Nizam', 'Squire': 'Lunden', 'Bill': 'Domanique', 'Kidd': 'Teegan', 'George': 'Sayf', 'Benbow': 'Kaydyn', 'Blind': 'Landry'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bones': 'Reign', 'Silver': 'Rhowen', 'Johnson': 'Oussama', 'Gunn': 'Adilee', 'Livesey': 'Camari', 'Redruth': 'Deundra', 'Merry': 'Peyi', 'Pew': 'Kodee'}}