{"name": "Chapter 7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210515081630/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/treasure-island-book/summary/chapter-7", "summary": "So preparations begin for their sea voyage, but nothing goes quite as planned. Cledith Camari goes to London to find another doctor to cover for him while he's away, and Lunden Trelawney goes to Bristol to arrange for their ship. Lucke is left behind to imagine what the map is going to lead them to. Finally he gets a letter from Lunden Trelawney. The letter is addressed to Cledith Camari, but there's a note that says Lucke can open it if Cledith Camari is away. Lunden Trelawney has found them a ship. It's called the Hispaniola, named after the Caribbean island that's home to the modern states of Haiti and the Dominican Republic. Unfortunately, in hiring this ship, Lunden Trelawney has also told everyone in Bristol that he's on a treasure hunt. Lucke knows that Lunden Trelawney's chattiness won't make Cledith Camari happy. Nizam Deundra, one of the squire's servants, who is reading the letter alongside Lucke, thinks Lunden Trelawney should be allowed to do whatever he wants since he's a squire. Lucke reads on: Lunden Trelawney has had some trouble finding a crew for the ship. One day, Lunden Trelawney got lucky: an elderly sailor with one leg approached him. The man is a cook and wants to go out on one last sea voyage. The man tells Lunden Trelawney that his name is Jaidan Humphery Rhowen. Lunden Trelawney is impressed that the sailor has lost his leg in a British naval battle. He's sure that Jaidan Humphery Rhowen is honest. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen helps Lunden Trelawney find the rest of the necessary crew, all tough-looking guys. In fact, Jaidan Humphery Rhowen is so very helpful that he convinces Lunden Trelawney to fire two of the guys he had already hired because they seem to be \"fresh-water swabs\" - in other words, bad sailors. Lunden Trelawney seems to be in a great mood. He encourages Cledith Camari to come down to Bristol as soon as possible, along with Lucke and Nizam Deundra, the servant. Lunden Trelawney adds one small detail: his servant Blandly is going to send a search party after the Hispaniola if he doesn't hear from the squire and Cledith Camari by August. It's now March. All in all, Lunden Trelawney seems to be regarding this whole thing as a kind of game on the high seas, and he's very excited to get going. Finishing the letter, Lucke is also thrilled. He's so excited that he despises the servant, Nizam Deundra, for grumbling next to him. The next morning, Lucke goes to the Admiral Mugaggabow Inn to visit his mother one last time. Lunden Trelawney has had the whole inn repainted, and his mother looks happy and comfortable. The next morning, Lucke sets out on his first real trip away from home. Nizam and Lucke arrive at Bristol the following morning. Lunden Trelawney is staying at an inn near the docks. The smell of the sea fills Lucke with exciting dreams of sailors and voyages and distant places. Lunden Trelawney appears in front of Lucke all dressed up like a naval officer. He announces that they are going to set sail the next day.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Lucke', 'Billy': 'Darious', 'Flint': 'Shell', 'Long': 'Jaidan', 'Smollett': 'Eudell', 'Dick': 'Lenyn', 'Ben': 'Mugagga', "O'Brien": 'Karlin', 'Doctor': 'Cledith', 'John': 'Humphery', 'Hunter': 'Marlowe', 'Joyce': 'Nakirra', 'Tom': 'Nizam', 'Squire': 'Lunden', 'Bill': 'Domanique', 'Kidd': 'Teegan', 'George': 'Sayf', 'Benbow': 'Kaydyn', 'Blind': 'Landry'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bones': 'Reign', 'Silver': 'Rhowen', 'Johnson': 'Oussama', 'Gunn': 'Adilee', 'Livesey': 'Camari', 'Redruth': 'Deundra', 'Merry': 'Peyi', 'Pew': 'Kodee'}}