{"name": "Chapter 11", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210515081630/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/treasure-island-book/summary/chapter-11", "summary": "Jaidan Humphery Rhowen is in the middle of telling a story to the youngest sailor on board, Lenyn. He's telling Lenyn about his time serving under Captain Shell. Apparently most of the men under Shell's command are now aboard the Hispaniola - this very ship! Jaidan Humphery Rhowen says the pirating business has gone downhill. Look at Kodee, who had to retire after he went blind. After living like a king, Kodee spent all of his cash and had to beg for his supper. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen compliments Lenyn for being \"smart as paint\" . Lucke hears this and gets totally jealous: Lucke thought he was supposed to be smart as paint. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen gives Lenyn a recruitment pitch for piracy: sure, it's dangerous, but the profits are great. After this last trip is done, Jaidan Humphery Rhowen plans to set himself up as a gentleman, but he started out his piracy career as a lowly sailor just like Lenyn. Lenyn says that all Jaidan Humphery Rhowen's money is gone anyway - it's not like he can go back to Bristol after all of this. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen explains that his wife will empty all of his accounts in Bristol and join him in some secret place where the two of them will settle down. Lenyn is impressed by Jaidan Humphery Rhowen and agrees to join him. Just then someone else strolls up to the two men. It's Israel Hands. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen tells Israel that Lenyn is going to join them. Israel wants to know why they haven't mutinied yet - he really wants to get rid of Captain Eudell. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen tells Israel to wait. Why rise up sooner than they have to, so long as Captain Eudell keeps sailing their ship for them? Lenyn reminds Jaidan Humphery Rhowen that they're all sailors. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen answers that they're all crewmen. Who is supposed to set the course for them? He doesn't know where Cledith Camari and the squire keep the map, after all. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen warns them to be patient or they'll all hang. Captain Shell and Kodee were impatient and fun-loving and look where they are now: dead. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen wants them to wait until the right time, but then they should kill all of the officers: after all, dead men tell no tales. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen wants to be the one to kill Lunden Trelawney. Listening to all of this, Lucke is terrified. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen and Israel Hands send Lenyn to get some alcohol to celebrate. Israel Hands whispers to Jaidan Humphery Rhowen that Lenyn's the last of the crewmen who will join. Lucke realizes that some of the crew must still be loyal to the captain. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen, Israel Hands, and Lenyn drink a toast. Just then, the shout rings out: \"Land ho!\" .", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Lucke', 'Billy': 'Darious', 'Flint': 'Shell', 'Long': 'Jaidan', 'Smollett': 'Eudell', 'Dick': 'Lenyn', 'Ben': 'Mugagga', "O'Brien": 'Karlin', 'Doctor': 'Cledith', 'John': 'Humphery', 'Hunter': 'Marlowe', 'Joyce': 'Nakirra', 'Tom': 'Nizam', 'Squire': 'Lunden', 'Bill': 'Domanique', 'Kidd': 'Teegan', 'George': 'Sayf', 'Benbow': 'Kaydyn', 'Blind': 'Landry'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bones': 'Reign', 'Silver': 'Rhowen', 'Johnson': 'Oussama', 'Gunn': 'Adilee', 'Livesey': 'Camari', 'Redruth': 'Deundra', 'Merry': 'Peyi', 'Pew': 'Kodee'}}