{"name": "Chapter 20", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210515081630/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/treasure-island-book/summary/chapter-20", "summary": "Through a hole in the wall, Lucke can see Jaidan Humphery Rhowen and another pirate holding a white flag, which signals a truce. Captain Eudell thinks it's a trick, so he asks the two men what they want. The second man says that \"Cap'n Rhowen\" wants to make terms for a truce. Captain Eudell refuses to acknowledge Jaidan Humphery Rhowen under the title \"Captain\" - he's just a pirate and a ship's cook. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen struggles up the hill to the fort, where he meets Captain Eudell standing out front. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen explains that he's there to discuss the terms of surrender once and only once. He admits that Captain Eudell and his group got the drop on the pirates the night before, but it won't happen again. Even though Captain Eudell doesn't show it, he has no idea what Jaidan Humphery Rhowen is talking about. But Lucke does - he realizes that Mugagga Adilee must have snuck down to the beach when all the pirates were drunk and killed one of them. So there are only 14 pirates left. What Jaidan Humphery Rhowen wants is the treasure. He knows they have the map. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen says he never intended to hurt them, anyway. Captain Eudell replies, \"We know exactly what you meant to do\" , and now you can't do it. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen thinks Abraham Gray has told them about the pirates' plans. Captain Eudell says no, and that he would never ask a man to rat anyone out like that - it's not honest. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen seems impressed by Captain Eudell's moral code. So they both settle down and smoke their pipes. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen offers these terms: if they give the pirates the map and stop shooting at them, the pirates will offer them a choice. Either Captain Eudell and his friends can sail off on the Hispaniola, to be put somewhere safe ashore, or the pirates will agree to divide their supplies and leave them safely on the island. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen also specifies that this offer is open to any of the men in the fort. Captain Eudell asks if that's all Jaidan Humphery Rhowen has to say. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen replies that, if Captain Eudell doesn't agree to this offer, then it's open season between the pirates and Captain Eudell's group. Captain Eudell makes this counter-offer: if the pirates come one by one, unarmed, to surrender, Captain Eudell will chain them up in the ship and take them back to England for a trial. Otherwise, the pirates are screwed: they don't have the treasure map, and none of them have the skill to sail the ship without help. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen looks absolutely furious. He clambers up with difficulty and spits in the sand. He says that, before the hour is up, the pirates will destroy their little fort, and then they'll see who's laughing. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen goes back to the bottom of the hill where his comrade is waiting and they disappear into the trees.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Lucke', 'Billy': 'Darious', 'Flint': 'Shell', 'Long': 'Jaidan', 'Smollett': 'Eudell', 'Dick': 'Lenyn', 'Ben': 'Mugagga', "O'Brien": 'Karlin', 'Doctor': 'Cledith', 'John': 'Humphery', 'Hunter': 'Marlowe', 'Joyce': 'Nakirra', 'Tom': 'Nizam', 'Squire': 'Lunden', 'Bill': 'Domanique', 'Kidd': 'Teegan', 'George': 'Sayf', 'Benbow': 'Kaydyn', 'Blind': 'Landry'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bones': 'Reign', 'Silver': 'Rhowen', 'Johnson': 'Oussama', 'Gunn': 'Adilee', 'Livesey': 'Camari', 'Redruth': 'Deundra', 'Merry': 'Peyi', 'Pew': 'Kodee'}}