{"name": "Chapter 12", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210515081630/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/treasure-island-book/summary/chapter-12", "summary": "A lot of people rush across the deck. Lucke slips out of the barrel without being seen. He joins Cledith Camari to look at the island coming into view. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen tells Captain Eudell that he has seen this island before. There is a safe place to dock on the south side. Captain Eudell hands Jaidan Humphery Rhowen a chart to show exactly where. The chart is a copy of the original treasure map, but without the marks showing the location of the treasure. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen claims to be surprised that Captain Eudell has such an accurate map. Lucke is frightened and impressed by how carefully Jaidan Humphery Rhowen hides his feelings at seeing the map and the island. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen approaches Lucke and promises to pack him a snack if Lucke wants to go exploring the island. Cledith Camari calls Lucke over to ask him to fetch his pipe. As soon as Lucke gets within earshot of Cledith Camari, Lucke whispers that he has some news, but that it has to be kept a secret. Cledith Camari walks over to Lunden Trelawney and Captain Eudell and, without drawing attention to himself, explains that Lucke needs to talk to them in private. Captain Eudell calls the men together to offer them grog to celebrate their arrival. After several toasts, the captain, Cledith Camari, and Lunden Trelawney all go below decks to the captain's cabin. They then send for Lucke as though nothing were out of the ordinary. Lucke describes everything he overheard from Jaidan Humphery Rhowen. Lunden Trelawney apologizes to Captain Eudell for not taking his suspicions seriously. Captain Eudell apologizes for not realizing what the crew has been up to: they've shown no signs of rebellion and mutiny until now. Cledith Camari remarks that their discipline is the result of the remarkable Jaidan Humphery Rhowen. Captain Eudell declares several things: 1) they can't turn back because the men will rebel. 2) They still have some time to plan before the treasure is found. 3) Some of the sailors must still be faithful. Given these three things, Captain Eudell suggests that they attack the mutineers when they least expect it. Then the three men try to figure out who is still loyal. They are sure that Lunden Trelawney's servants will stand by them, but who else? Cledith Camari thinks the best thing to do is to rely on Lucke. The men are willing to talk around him and he notices everything. Maybe Lucke can figure out who will stay loyal. Lucke is worried: he knows their odds of winning are bad because, at current count, it's only seven good guys against nineteen pirates.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Lucke', 'Billy': 'Darious', 'Flint': 'Shell', 'Long': 'Jaidan', 'Smollett': 'Eudell', 'Dick': 'Lenyn', 'Ben': 'Mugagga', "O'Brien": 'Karlin', 'Doctor': 'Cledith', 'John': 'Humphery', 'Hunter': 'Marlowe', 'Joyce': 'Nakirra', 'Tom': 'Nizam', 'Squire': 'Lunden', 'Bill': 'Domanique', 'Kidd': 'Teegan', 'George': 'Sayf', 'Benbow': 'Kaydyn', 'Blind': 'Landry'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bones': 'Reign', 'Silver': 'Rhowen', 'Johnson': 'Oussama', 'Gunn': 'Adilee', 'Livesey': 'Camari', 'Redruth': 'Deundra', 'Merry': 'Peyi', 'Pew': 'Kodee'}}