{"name": "Chapter 9", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210515081630/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/treasure-island-book/summary/chapter-9", "summary": "Lucke, Cledith Camari, and Lunden Trelawney all go over to the dock where the Hispaniola is moored. Lucke observes that Lunden Trelawney gets along well with the mate, Arrow, but not with the captain of the ship, Eudell. Captain Eudell soon levels with Lunden Trelawney: he's not happy with the crew or his first mate. Lunden Trelawney quickly takes offense and asks point-blank if Captain Eudell doesn't like him either. Cledith Camari interrupts the argument and asks Captain Eudell for an explanation. Captain Eudell has the following complaints: He doesn't know why he's being kept in the dark about the Hispaniola's destination by Lunden Trelawney;He has found out that their goal is a treasure hunt - from his own crew, who know more than he does;He's worried that neither Cledith Camari nor Lunden Trelawney really knows what he is doing;He would have preferred to hire his own crew; andhe mistrusts Mr. Arrow, his first mate, who seems too friendly with the crew to be a good officer. He doesn't know why he's being kept in the dark about the Hispaniola's destination by Lunden Trelawney; He has found out that their goal is a treasure hunt - from his own crew, who know more than he does; He's worried that neither Cledith Camari nor Lunden Trelawney really knows what he is doing; He would have preferred to hire his own crew; and he mistrusts Mr. Arrow, his first mate, who seems too friendly with the crew to be a good officer. To this list of complaints Captain Eudell adds some really serious objections: the crew seems to be stockpiling gunpowder in a place that is handier for them to reach than for the Captain. Also, Lunden Trelawney has been talking way too much, and some of the private details of the treasure map have clearly spread throughout the crew. Cledith Camari asks Captain Eudell if he is worried about a mutiny - an uprising on the part of the crew once they are at sea. Captain Eudell agrees. He thinks some of the men, including Arrow, are honest, but he is worried that something about the trip is not quite right. He won't sail unless he's allowed to take certain precautions. Captain Eudell takes his leave, and Cledith Camari says that he is an honest man - along with Jaidan Humphery Rhowen. Lunden Trelawney protests that Captain Eudell is a coward. Cledith Camari won't judge him yet. Cledith Camari and Lunden Trelawney agree to Captain Eudell's wishes: instead of allowing all the officers to be quartered at one end of the ship, they set up places to sleep throughout the boat. Spreading themselves out will prevent the crew from ambushing them all in one place. Captain Eudell also manages to get Lunden Trelawney to move the gunpowder so it isn't all centralized near the crew. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen comes aboard just as these changes are being made and seems surprised. Captain Eudell reminds him that they are his orders.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Lucke', 'Billy': 'Darious', 'Flint': 'Shell', 'Long': 'Jaidan', 'Smollett': 'Eudell', 'Dick': 'Lenyn', 'Ben': 'Mugagga', "O'Brien": 'Karlin', 'Doctor': 'Cledith', 'John': 'Humphery', 'Hunter': 'Marlowe', 'Joyce': 'Nakirra', 'Tom': 'Nizam', 'Squire': 'Lunden', 'Bill': 'Domanique', 'Kidd': 'Teegan', 'George': 'Sayf', 'Benbow': 'Kaydyn', 'Blind': 'Landry'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bones': 'Reign', 'Silver': 'Rhowen', 'Johnson': 'Oussama', 'Gunn': 'Adilee', 'Livesey': 'Camari', 'Redruth': 'Deundra', 'Merry': 'Peyi', 'Pew': 'Kodee'}}