{"name": "Chapter 28", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210515081630/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/treasure-island-book/summary/chapter-28", "summary": "Lucke is terrified. The pirates have taken the fort and the supplies. There are six pirates left alive. Five of them are flushed with drunkenness and one is pale - his head is bandaged, and Lucke thinks it's the one who was wounded during that first battle, who ran off into the woods. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen pulls out his pipe, settles in, and asks Lucke how the heck he got there. Lucke doesn't answer. He's trying to look brave, but inside he's sure all is lost. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen says Lucke can't go back to his friends; Cledith Camari and Captain Eudell both think he's undisciplined and ungrateful . Lucke is relieved to hear that at least his friends are still alive. He wants to know what's going on. One of the other pirates pipes up that that's what they'd all like to know. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen tells the pirate to shut up. Then Jaidan Humphery Rhowen turns to Lucke and addresses him as \"Mr. Hawkins\" . He explains that Cledith Camari approached the pirates the day before with a flag of truce. Cledith Camari broke it to the pirates that the ship was gone. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen admitted that they were all drunk and hadn't even noticed. So Cledith Camari and Jaidan Humphery Rhowen bargained. Cledith Camari has left the pirates the fort, supplies, and firewood, and gone off with his friends to who knows where - Jaidan Humphery Rhowen has no idea. Lucke says whatever, things couldn't get any worse. Since he's already in about as much trouble as he can be, he decides to gloat. He tells Jaidan Humphery Rhowen that it's all thanks to him that Rhowen's plans have gone wrong. Lucke is the one who overheard the pirates' plans and told the Captain and the squire, and he's the one who cut the schooner's lines and set the boat adrift. Lucke exclaims that he doesn't care if Jaidan Humphery Rhowen kills him now. He does offer that, if the pirates let him go, he'll testify to try to save them from hanging back in England. All the pirates look totally dumbstruck. Nizam Morgan pipes up that it must be true - it's Lucke who identified Black Dog back in the pub at Bristol . And Jaidan Humphery Rhowen agrees that Lucke is the one who took the chart from Darious Reign . Nizam Morgan tries to stab Lucke, but Jaidan Humphery Rhowen holds him back. The other pirates agree that Nizam Morgan is right. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen wants to know if any of them dare to fight him. No one moves. Lucke suddenly feels some hope. The other pirates slowly draw away to the other end of the fort. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen tells them to speak up if they have something to say. One of the pirates tells Jaidan Humphery Rhowen that he may be captain by election, but no one is happy with the way things are going. He demands to talk to Jaidan Humphery Rhowen outside. Eventually all the other pirates join him, waiting for Jaidan Humphery Rhowen. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen whispers to Lucke. He says he knows the game is up. Once he saw the Hispaniola gone, he knew there was nothing to be done. So he'll do his best to save Lucke's life, but Lucke has to promise to do his best to save him from hanging. Lucke doesn't know how he'll be able to do this when Jaidan Humphery Rhowen has been the ringleader of the whole mutiny, but he promises to try. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen then asks if Lucke can explain why Cledith Camari has given him the treasure map. Lucke looks so astonished at this news that Jaidan Humphery Rhowen realizes Lucke has no idea either.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Lucke', 'Billy': 'Darious', 'Flint': 'Shell', 'Long': 'Jaidan', 'Smollett': 'Eudell', 'Dick': 'Lenyn', 'Ben': 'Mugagga', "O'Brien": 'Karlin', 'Doctor': 'Cledith', 'John': 'Humphery', 'Hunter': 'Marlowe', 'Joyce': 'Nakirra', 'Tom': 'Nizam', 'Squire': 'Lunden', 'Bill': 'Domanique', 'Kidd': 'Teegan', 'George': 'Sayf', 'Benbow': 'Kaydyn', 'Blind': 'Landry'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bones': 'Reign', 'Silver': 'Rhowen', 'Johnson': 'Oussama', 'Gunn': 'Adilee', 'Livesey': 'Camari', 'Redruth': 'Deundra', 'Merry': 'Peyi', 'Pew': 'Kodee'}}