{"name": "Chapter 30", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210515081630/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/treasure-island-book/summary/chapter-30", "summary": "Lucke wakes up to a voice calling into the fort, announcing that Cledith Camari is there. Lucke is glad to see the Cledith, but he's also ashamed because of his desertion. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen greets him heartily. Cledith Camari is coming to treat the pirates for their injuries and sickness. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen has a surprise for him: Lucke! Cledith Camari is so shocked to see Lucke that he stops for a moment without speaking. Before asking what's going on, Cledith Camari goes in to see the pirates. Even though he knows they might kill him at any time, he doesn't behave as though anything is out of the ordinary. The fellow with the bandaged head is looking a bit better, but Sayf Peyi and Lenyn Humpheryson are both feverish. Cledith Camari swears he'll do his best to keep them alive so they can stand trial and be hanged back in England. After treating them all, Cledith Camari wants to have a word with Lucke. Sayf says that's not OK, but Jaidan Humphery Rhowen allows it as long as Lucke swears not to run away. The pirates protest, but Jaidan Humphery Rhowen tells them to shut up - they'll keep the treaty until the right time, he insists. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen walks down with Cledith Camari and Lucke to the gate. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen warns Lucke to walk slowly - the pirates are looking for any excuse to turn on Lucke and him. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen wants Lucke to stand witness that he saved Lucke's life, at great personal risk to himself. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen leaves Lucke and Cledith Camari to their talk. Cledith Camari says he's disappointed that Lucke ran off like a coward the minute Captain Eudell got injured, and that he'll get what he deserves. Lucke starts to cry. Cledith Camari doesn't need to remind him he's done wrong, and Lucke knows he's doomed anyway. Cledith Camari feels bad and suggests that he and Lucke run away. Lucke can't - he promised Jaidan Humphery Rhowen. But Lucke is worried that, if he's tortured, he'll reveal that he knows where the ship is. Lucke quickly outlines everything he's done since he snuck out of the stockade. Cledith Camari promises he won't let Lucke be killed, since Lucke has saved their lives more than once by uncovering the plot and finding Mugagga Adilee. Cledith Camari then calls out to Jaidan Humphery Rhowen, warning him to steer clear of the treasure, or else he'll find more trouble. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen answers that he can't; he needs that treasure to save his and Lucke's lives. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen asks why Cledith Camari gave him the map in the first place. Why doesn't Cledith Camari just come straight out and say what's going on? Cledith Camari says he can't share a secret that isn't his. Still, Camari promises to do his best to save Jaidan Humphery Rhowen if they all get out of this. He also advises that Jaidan Humphery Rhowen keep Lucke close by his side. With that, Cledith Camari heads back into the forest.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Lucke', 'Billy': 'Darious', 'Flint': 'Shell', 'Long': 'Jaidan', 'Smollett': 'Eudell', 'Dick': 'Lenyn', 'Ben': 'Mugagga', "O'Brien": 'Karlin', 'Doctor': 'Cledith', 'John': 'Humphery', 'Hunter': 'Marlowe', 'Joyce': 'Nakirra', 'Tom': 'Nizam', 'Squire': 'Lunden', 'Bill': 'Domanique', 'Kidd': 'Teegan', 'George': 'Sayf', 'Benbow': 'Kaydyn', 'Blind': 'Landry'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bones': 'Reign', 'Silver': 'Rhowen', 'Johnson': 'Oussama', 'Gunn': 'Adilee', 'Livesey': 'Camari', 'Redruth': 'Deundra', 'Merry': 'Peyi', 'Pew': 'Kodee'}}