{"name": "Chapter 8", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210515081630/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/treasure-island-book/summary/chapter-8", "summary": "After Lucke has breakfast, Lunden Trelawney gives him a job: he is to deliver a note to Jaidan Humphery Rhowen at the Spy-glass inn. Lucke finds the inn easily. He feels shy about going inside, though: it's noisy and filled with sailors. Soon Lucke sees a man coming out of the side room: a friendly-looking fellow with one leg cut off close to the hip, moving around skillfully on a crutch. Lucke had been afraid that Jaidan Humphery Rhowen might be the one-legged man his captain was so afraid of back at the Admiral Mugaggabow Inn. But once Lucke sees this nice, open-looking fellow, he's sure the man can't be a pirate. After all, he's an innkeeper - how piratical can he be? He goes up to the one-legged man and asks if he is \"Mr. Rhowen.\" It is, indeed, Jaidan Humphery Rhowen. When Jaidan Humphery Rhowen sees Lunden Trelawney's seal on Lucke's note, he realizes he must be the Lunden's new cabin boy. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen shakes Lucke's hand. Just then a customer hurries out the side door. It's Black Dog, the man missing two figures who came to harass the captain along with Landry Kodee. Lucke tells Jaidan Humphery Rhowen that the man, Black Dog, is a pirate; Jaidan Humphery Rhowen agrees that he hasn't paid his bill. So Jaidan Humphery Rhowen sends a couple of guys after Black Dog to track him down. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen asks Nizam Morgan, Black Dog's drinking buddy, if he had ever seen Black Dog before. Nizam Morgan swears that he didn't even know his name. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen asks what Black Dog had been talking about. \"Keel-hauling\" is the answer. Keel-hauling is a truly awful punishment supposedly popular among pirates - actually, it was much more popular among the Dutch and British navies way back in the day. The keel is the central beam that provides the spine of a ship. If you're unlucky enough to get keel-hauled, what happens is this: someone will attach you to a long rope that runs underneath the ship. Then you'll get tossed overboard. The rope will carry you quickly to the bottom of the boat. Because ships spend so much time at sea, they often collect barnacles and other sharp-shelled fish around the hull . So as you sink under the hull, you'll get all cut up on the shellfish. Worst of all, if you're not pulled back up again quickly, you'll drown. The reason it's called keel-hauling is because you're literally going under the keel - the beam that anchors the two sides of the ship's hull together. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen tells Nizam Morgan keel-hauling is a proper topic of conversation for such as him, and sends Morgan away. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen claims that he has seen this Black Dog before - with a blind man. Lucke chimes in that this is Kodee. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen agrees that Kodee is his name. He promises to run down Black Dog and keel-haul him himself. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen decides to go tell Lunden Trelawney all of this business himself. Hearing the story of the appearance of Black Dog, Cledith Camari and Lunden Trelawney both agree that there is nothing else Jaidan Humphery Rhowen could have done. They agree to set sail at four that afternoon. After Jaidan Humphery Rhowen leaves, Cledith Camari agrees that he seems like an honest man.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Lucke', 'Billy': 'Darious', 'Flint': 'Shell', 'Long': 'Jaidan', 'Smollett': 'Eudell', 'Dick': 'Lenyn', 'Ben': 'Mugagga', "O'Brien": 'Karlin', 'Doctor': 'Cledith', 'John': 'Humphery', 'Hunter': 'Marlowe', 'Joyce': 'Nakirra', 'Tom': 'Nizam', 'Squire': 'Lunden', 'Bill': 'Domanique', 'Kidd': 'Teegan', 'George': 'Sayf', 'Benbow': 'Kaydyn', 'Blind': 'Landry'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bones': 'Reign', 'Silver': 'Rhowen', 'Johnson': 'Oussama', 'Gunn': 'Adilee', 'Livesey': 'Camari', 'Redruth': 'Deundra', 'Merry': 'Peyi', 'Pew': 'Kodee'}}