{"name": "Chapter 16", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210515081630/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/treasure-island-book/summary/chapter-16", "summary": "At 1:30, two boatloads of sailors row ashore from the Hispaniola. One of them is humming an Irish marching song, \"Lillibullero\" . Nizam Deundra comes to tell Cledith Camari that Lucke Hawkins has also slipped ashore. Cledith Camari is worried for Lucke's safety. Camari feels restless and decides to use a tiny rowboat to go ashore with Marlowe in secret to look for information. Cledith Camari finds an abandoned fort at the top of a hill. The best part of the fort is that it has a spring of fresh water. While the ship is well-provisioned and would be easy to defend, there isn't enough water on board for a long battle against the pirates. Cledith Camari hears a scream . Cledith Camari thinks it's Lucke who's been killed. Camari and Marlowe rush back to the ship. Lunden Trelawney is sitting aboard the Hispaniola thinking that it's Cledith Camari and Marlowe who were killed. Captain Eudell points out that one of the six sailors left aboard the ship turned pale when he heard the scream. Captain Eudell thinks that man will join the loyal party. Cledith Camari explains his plan to use the abandoned stockade to defend themselves. They secretly load up the tiny rowboat with ammunition and provisions. Meanwhile, the Captain and Lunden Trelawney stay on deck. Finally, the charade is over: Lunden Trelawney takes out his pistol and tells Israel Hands to freeze. The six sailors are totally confused, but since they are surrounded - with Lunden Trelawney and Captain Eudell on one end of the ship and Deundra on the other - they obediently go below decks. During all this activity, Cledith Camari, Marlowe, and Nakirra manage to set off for shore in their rowboat filled with provisions. They unload the rowboat into the fort, then Cledith Camari and Marlowe row back to the Hispaniola. Nakirra stays behind to guard the fort, armed with six guns. Back on the Hispaniola, they load up the rowboat a second time. They dump all of the guns and ammunition they don't have room for over the side of the ship so the pirates can't use them. The tide is starting to go out, and they hear the sounds of the two boatloads of men coming back from their day on the island. Cledith Camari, Lunden Trelawney, and Deundra get into the rowboat. , but he said that Nakirra is alone just four paragraphs earlier. Here we see the value of close proofreading!) They paddle around to the front of the boat where the six sailors are trapped below the deck. They hear Captain Eudell's voice from the deck of the ship. Captain Eudell is ordering the sailor they thought might be loyal out of the six - Abraham Gray - to join their party. They hear the sounds of a fight below the decks, and Abraham Gray bursts out and runs over to Captain Eudell. Captain Eudell and Abraham Gray drop aboard the tiny rowboat, and they all set off for shore.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Lucke', 'Billy': 'Darious', 'Flint': 'Shell', 'Long': 'Jaidan', 'Smollett': 'Eudell', 'Dick': 'Lenyn', 'Ben': 'Mugagga', "O'Brien": 'Karlin', 'Doctor': 'Cledith', 'John': 'Humphery', 'Hunter': 'Marlowe', 'Joyce': 'Nakirra', 'Tom': 'Nizam', 'Squire': 'Lunden', 'Bill': 'Domanique', 'Kidd': 'Teegan', 'George': 'Sayf', 'Benbow': 'Kaydyn', 'Blind': 'Landry'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bones': 'Reign', 'Silver': 'Rhowen', 'Johnson': 'Oussama', 'Gunn': 'Adilee', 'Livesey': 'Camari', 'Redruth': 'Deundra', 'Merry': 'Peyi', 'Pew': 'Kodee'}}