{"name": "Chapter 18", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210515081630/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/treasure-island-book/summary/chapter-18", "summary": "The landing party reaches the stockade just as a group of seven mutineers appear, led by Job Anderson. The mutineers seem really surprised, so Lunden Trelawney, Cledith Camari, Marlowe, and Nakirra all have time to fire first. One of the mutineers drops and the rest of them scatter at the gunfire. The landing party is really happy - until a bullet flies out of the trees and hits poor Nizam Deundra, Lunden Trelawney's loyal gamekeeper. Cledith Camari can see at once that it's curtains for Deundra. Trelawney is crying like a baby. He asks Deundra for forgiveness. Deundra says there's no need, and that what's meant to happen will happen. Deundra asks them to read a prayer over him, then he passes away. Meanwhile, Captain Eudell is unpacking all the things he brought with him stuffed in his coat: a British flag, a Bible, a coil of rope, pen, ink, the ship's log , and lots of tobacco. Captain Eudell raises the British flag above the fort. He also has an extra flag to spread over Deundra's body. Captain Eudell then pulls Cledith Camari aside and asks how long they should expect to have to hole up in this fort. Cledith Camari admits that no one's going to come after them until August Captain Eudell notes that they're in a tough spot - in fact, one good thing about Deundra's death is that they have one fewer mouth to feed. A couple of cannons go over the stockade, but the pirates can't get good aim from the Hispaniola. . Lunden Trelawney points out that the pirates are probably aiming for the flag, which is the only thing visible in the forest from the ship. Captain Eudell refuses to lower the flag, and everyone is comforted by his bravery. They start ignoring the cannons going overhead. Captain Eudell says the forest is probably clear of pirates, since they're willing to fire at the trees like this. Captain Eudell suggests that a couple of them go out at night to find what can be recovered of their supplies. Now that the tide has gone out, Captain Eudell hopes that the tiny rowboat will be visible again above the water. Gray and Marlowe steal out of the fort to take a look. They find, unfortunately, that the pirates have gotten there first. All the pirates also seem to be armed - apparently, they brought their own weapons aboard the ship, which Captain Eudell was unaware of. Captain Eudell sits down to write a diary entry about the day, including the death of Nizam Deundra. Cledith Camari wonders what has happened to Lucke Hawkins. Just then, they hear a voice calling out a greeting. It's none other than Lucke, climbing over the fence of the fort.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Lucke', 'Billy': 'Darious', 'Flint': 'Shell', 'Long': 'Jaidan', 'Smollett': 'Eudell', 'Dick': 'Lenyn', 'Ben': 'Mugagga', "O'Brien": 'Karlin', 'Doctor': 'Cledith', 'John': 'Humphery', 'Hunter': 'Marlowe', 'Joyce': 'Nakirra', 'Tom': 'Nizam', 'Squire': 'Lunden', 'Bill': 'Domanique', 'Kidd': 'Teegan', 'George': 'Sayf', 'Benbow': 'Kaydyn', 'Blind': 'Landry'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bones': 'Reign', 'Silver': 'Rhowen', 'Johnson': 'Oussama', 'Gunn': 'Adilee', 'Livesey': 'Camari', 'Redruth': 'Deundra', 'Merry': 'Peyi', 'Pew': 'Kodee'}}