{"name": "Chapter 15", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210515081630/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/treasure-island-book/summary/chapter-15", "summary": "Lucke sees a shadow jump behind a rock. Lucke tries to retrace his steps back to the beach and the Hispaniola. The dark figure reappears and catches up with Lucke. Lucke is so afraid of Jaidan Humphery Rhowen that he decides not to call for help; instead, he turns to face the figure. Lucke is totally surprised when the figure throws himself to his knees as though begging Lucke for mercy. The figure introduces himself as Mugagga Adilee. He has been marooned alone on this island for three years, living off oysters, berries, and goat meat. All he wants is a bit of toasted cheese. Mugagga tells Lucke that he's become a god-fearing man again after all this time on the island. Mugagga promises Lucke that he'll give him riches if he helps him. Mugagga asks Lucke if he has come to the island on Shell's ship. Lucke says no, but some of the men on the ship were Shell's men. Mugagga asks if one of them is a man with one leg, Jaidan Humphery Rhowen. Lucke says yes, and Mugagga asks if he is on Jaidan Humphery Rhowen's side or not. Lucke realizes that Mugagga may be an enemy of Jaidan Humphery Rhowen, so he explains the whole story of the Hispaniola's voyage. Mugagga promises to help in exchange for 1,000 British pounds of the treasure and free passage home. Mugagga tells Lucke that he was sailing with Captain Shell when Shell buried his treasure on this island. Somehow Shell managed to murder six sailors single-handedly in order to keep the treasure's burial place secret. Darious Reign and Jaidan Humphery Rhowen were both on the ship at this time. Three years ago, Mugagga was sailing aboard another ship when they passed this island. Mugagga suggested that they stop and look for Shell's treasure. The captain of the boat wasn't happy about it, but the men insisted. They spent twelve days looking for the treasure but couldn't find it. After wasting almost two weeks, the sailors turned on Mugagga Adilee. They marooned him on the island along with a gun, a spade, and a pickax so that he could keep looking for Shell's treasure by himself. Having spent three years on the island by himself, Mugagga seems to have gone a little nuts. Still, he asks Lucke to put in a good word for him with Lunden Trelawney. Lucke asks how he's supposed to get back on board the Hispaniola. Mugagga says he has a small boat and suggests that they try using it to row to the Hispaniola after dark. Mugagga and Lucke hear the sounds of a fight breaking out. They run over quietly to see what's happening. They hear the sound of a cannon going off, followed by gunfire. There is a pause, then Lucke sees the Union Jack flying over the forest.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Lucke', 'Billy': 'Darious', 'Flint': 'Shell', 'Long': 'Jaidan', 'Smollett': 'Eudell', 'Dick': 'Lenyn', 'Ben': 'Mugagga', "O'Brien": 'Karlin', 'Doctor': 'Cledith', 'John': 'Humphery', 'Hunter': 'Marlowe', 'Joyce': 'Nakirra', 'Tom': 'Nizam', 'Squire': 'Lunden', 'Bill': 'Domanique', 'Kidd': 'Teegan', 'George': 'Sayf', 'Benbow': 'Kaydyn', 'Blind': 'Landry'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bones': 'Reign', 'Silver': 'Rhowen', 'Johnson': 'Oussama', 'Gunn': 'Adilee', 'Livesey': 'Camari', 'Redruth': 'Deundra', 'Merry': 'Peyi', 'Pew': 'Kodee'}}