{"name": "Chapter 10", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210515081630/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/treasure-island-book/summary/chapter-10", "summary": "Everyone aboard the ship is working hard to get things stowed away before the departure in the morning. One of the men addresses Jaidan Humphery Rhowen as \"Barbecue\" . They ask him to sing a song. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen starts in on the old song Lucke's captain used to sing: \"Fifteen men on the dead man's chest Yo-ho-ho, and a bottle of rum!\" . And so the voyage starts. Two things become clear: first, Mr. Arrow, the first mate, is a drunk whom nobody obeys. No one can figure out where he gets his alcohol, but he is definitely drunk all the time. So when Mr. Arrow goes overboard, no one thinks much of it - even though the ship is now without a first mate. Lunden Trelawney sometimes takes watch to fill in for the absent Mr. Arrow. Two other guys also help out: the boatswain , Job Anderson, and the coxswain , Israel Hands. Israel Hands is really tight with Jaidan Humphery Rhowen. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen is doing well aboard the ship: he's incredibly nimble and familiar with the layout of the boat. All the men respect him and do as he says. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen also seems to take a special shine to Lucke. He often takes Lucke aside to tell him stories of the seafaring life. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen also has a parrot, \"Cap'n Shell,\" who frequently shouts out, \"Pieces of eight!\" . Lucke and Jaidan Humphery Rhowen may be getting tight, but two men who aren't growing any closer are Lunden Trelawney and Captain Eudell. Lunden Trelawney clearly despises the captain, and the captain never talks to the squire if he can help it. Captain Eudell keeps warning that something is wrong about the whole trip, and Lunden Trelawney continues to lose his temper at Captain Eudell's pessimism. The captain complains to Cledith Camari that the men are getting spoiled: they are often given double rations or grog to celebrate birthdays or whatever Lunden Trelawney pleases. Among Lunden Trelawney's treats for the sailors is an apple barrel that's always open so the men can have fresh fruit. The night before they estimate that they're going to reach their destination, Treasure Island, Lucke decides to go grab some fruit from the barrel. Everything is still and silent on board. Lucke finds that there are no apples in easy reach and climbs into the barrel to get to the bottom. Once inside the apple barrel, the darkness and rocking motion of the ship lull him into a doze. He only wakes up when he hears Jaidan Humphery Rhowen's voice. He keeps himself hidden so that he can listen.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Lucke', 'Billy': 'Darious', 'Flint': 'Shell', 'Long': 'Jaidan', 'Smollett': 'Eudell', 'Dick': 'Lenyn', 'Ben': 'Mugagga', "O'Brien": 'Karlin', 'Doctor': 'Cledith', 'John': 'Humphery', 'Hunter': 'Marlowe', 'Joyce': 'Nakirra', 'Tom': 'Nizam', 'Squire': 'Lunden', 'Bill': 'Domanique', 'Kidd': 'Teegan', 'George': 'Sayf', 'Benbow': 'Kaydyn', 'Blind': 'Landry'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bones': 'Reign', 'Silver': 'Rhowen', 'Johnson': 'Oussama', 'Gunn': 'Adilee', 'Livesey': 'Camari', 'Redruth': 'Deundra', 'Merry': 'Peyi', 'Pew': 'Kodee'}}