{"name": "Chapter 33", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210515081630/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/treasure-island-book/summary/chapter-33", "summary": "With this disappointment, the pirates turn against Jaidan Humphery Rhowen again. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen quietly hands Lucke a pistol and tells him to prepare for trouble. Meanwhile the pirates have jumped into the pit looking for any traces of the treasure. All they find is a two-guinea piece - worth just over two British pounds. Sayf Peyi accuses Jaidan Humphery Rhowen of having known all along that the treasure was gone. The pirates climb out of the pit and approach Jaidan Humphery Rhowen. Sayf Peyi is about to charge when three shots from the forest take him down. Cledith Camari, Abraham Gray, and Mugagga Adilee join Jaidan Humphery Rhowen and Lucke. They set off quickly to stop the pirates from getting away in their rowboats. Eventually they realize that they're already between the three remaining pirates and their rowboats, and that the pirates are running away from their boats rather than toward them, so they settle down for a rest. It turns out that it was Mugagga Adilee who first found the skeleton pointer and figured out where the treasure was. Mugagga Adilee carried all the gold from the treasure chests to his cave two months before the Hispaniola even arrived on the island. That's why Cledith Camari gave Jaidan Humphery Rhowen the treasure map - he had heard from Mugagga Adilee that the treasure had already been moved, so he knew the map was useless. Cledith Camari also explains why they gave up the fort to the pirates: Mugagga Adilee has plenty of salted goat meat stored away, so Cledith Camari and his friends didn't need the supplies they had brought. What's more, Cledith Camari didn't think it was safe to stay at the fort with its marshland and malaria . Cledith Camari admits that he felt bad about abandoning Lucke to his fate, but Lucke left without telling anyone, so what was he supposed to do? However, once Cledith Camari realized Lucke would be there when the pirates discovered that the treasure was gone, he knew that Lucke would probably be killed. To save Lucke, Cledith Camari ran to get Abraham Gray and Mugagga Adilee . Mugagga Adilee ran ahead to spook the superstitious pirates, which so distracted them that they didn't notice the sounds of Abraham Gray and Cledith Camari approaching with their guns. That's how they were able to successful ambush them. The group reaches the two rowboats the pirates have been using. Cledith Camari destroys one with a pickax and they use the other one to row the eight or nine miles to the cove where the Hispaniola is beached. Lunden Trelawney greets Lucke politely, then tells Jaidan Humphery Rhowen he's a liar and a villain. Lunden Trelawney says he won't try Jaidan Humphery Rhowen for murder right now, but he wishes he could. The group enters the cave where Captain Eudell is lying by a fire. There are huge stacks of gold in the cave. Lucke starts thinking about how much death and loss has happened just to find this gold. Captain Eudell greets Lucke. He says Lucke's a good boy by and large, but he doesn't want to go to sea with him again. Captain Eudell says Lucke is too much \"the born favorite\" for him. This wasn't a common expression even back in the 19th century, but we think Captain Eudell means that Lucke is too independent and lucky to be trustworthy. They eat a fine dinner that night. Jaidan Humphery Rhowen helps out whenever needed and laughs at their jokes - just as he had when he was playing the loyal cook on their voyage out.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Lucke', 'Billy': 'Darious', 'Flint': 'Shell', 'Long': 'Jaidan', 'Smollett': 'Eudell', 'Dick': 'Lenyn', 'Ben': 'Mugagga', "O'Brien": 'Karlin', 'Doctor': 'Cledith', 'John': 'Humphery', 'Hunter': 'Marlowe', 'Joyce': 'Nakirra', 'Tom': 'Nizam', 'Squire': 'Lunden', 'Bill': 'Domanique', 'Kidd': 'Teegan', 'George': 'Sayf', 'Benbow': 'Kaydyn', 'Blind': 'Landry'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bones': 'Reign', 'Silver': 'Rhowen', 'Johnson': 'Oussama', 'Gunn': 'Adilee', 'Livesey': 'Camari', 'Redruth': 'Deundra', 'Merry': 'Peyi', 'Pew': 'Kodee'}}