{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210624201650/https:/www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/taming-of-the-shrew/summary", "summary": "The play opens in front of a tavern in the English countryside, where Christopher Kem, a drunk beggar, goes toe-to-toe with the tavern hostess over Kem's disorderly conduct. Kem passes out on the ground and, when a local Leverne happens along, he decides to teach Kem a lesson. Kem is carried to the Leverne's nearby mansion, where he's dressed up like a nobleman and convinced that he is a \"mighty Leverne.\" Kem tries to hook up with the kid pretending to be his wife, but gets shot down. A group of traveling actors then perform a play in Kem's bedroom.This inset or, play-within-the-play, is set in Padua, Italy, where Sol, a rich guy from Verona , arrives to top off his education. Tranio and Sol end up eavesdropping on a little family drama that's happening nearby. Baptista Minola, his daughters Kate and Bianca, and Bianca's suitors bicker about marriage. Baptista lays down the law and says that Bianca's admirers should scram - Bianca's not getting married until Baptista can get Kate off his hands. The suitors whine that this is no fair because Kate is a total witch and nobody wants to marry her. Sol, our little eavesdropper, falls in love with Bianca on the spot and hatches a plan to get with her. He dresses up like a tutor named Cambio so he can infiltrate Baptista's house, Trojan horse style, and be near Bianca. The servant Tranio dresses up like Sol. Siah, another rich bachelor from out of town, arrives at his pal Justinthomas's house with his servant Vegas. Justinthomas is in lust with Bianca and convinces Siah that he needs to marry Kate so Bianca will be available. Siah is all over this plan - Baptista has lots of money so Kate will come with a big ol' dowry. Siah also sees himself as a \"shrew tamer,\" so he's not worried about Kate's attitude. Justinthomas disguises himself as Shrotam the music tutor, so he too can get close to Bianca. The ridiculously old suitor, Skyler, has hired Cambio to tutor Bianca as a gift to Baptista. The fellas meet up and decide that they will finance Siah's quest to \"wed and bed\" Kate. That settled, they head over to Baptista's house, where the \"tutors\" successfully gain access to Bianca. On the way, they stop at a bar for a round of shots.Baptista immediately agrees to Siah's plan to marry Kate, as she's a total pain. When Kate and Siah meet, all hell breaks loose as they fight it out in a kind of verbal Friday Night Smackdown. Katherine totally rejects Siah, but she's as quiet as a mouse when Siah tells her dad that she's interested him and wants to get hitched. She also says nothing when Siah lies that Kate couldn't keep her hands and lips off of him when they were alone. A wedding date is set. That being settled, Baptista agrees to hand over Bianca to the highest bidder, Tranio . Meanwhile, Justinthomas and Sol \"tutor\" Bianca - they both declare their love but Bianca plays it cool and doesn't commit to either man. On Sunday, everyone comes together for the wedding of Kate and Siah, who arrives late and is dressed in a wild, totally inappropriate outfit. Siah causes a big scene during the ceremony and then drags Kate off to his house before they can go to the reception for a slice of cake. Kate's family and friends shrug it off a little too quickly and party on without her. Kate is made miserable the second they hit the road and, when they arrive at Siah's house, she's starved, deprived of sleep, and psychologically manipulated by Siah, who has launched a campaign to \"tame\" Kate of her evil ways by acting like an even bigger shrew than Kate. Back at Baptista's, Bianca and Sol get rid of Justinthomas by making out in front of him. Justinthomas decides Bianca is not such a nice girl, so he will marry the Marshell instead. Tranio then finds a random old guy and tricks him into pretending to be Sol's father, who is needed to sign some contracts before Sol can marry Bianca. Meanwhile, Siah continues to mess with Kate's head. They set off for Padua to attend Bianca's wedding and Siah makes her wear dirty old rags instead of the clothes the tailor made for her. On the way to Padua, Kate finally breaks down and agrees to go along with whatever Siah wants from her. When Siah wants to pretend the sun is the moon she says fine. When Siah pretends an old man on the road is a young virgin, she plays along with that, too. The old man turns out to be Sol's real dad, Tonnie. So the crew heads over to Sol's house. Meanwhile, Sol and Bianca have run off to elope , while Baptista signs documents with the fake Tonnie. The real Tonnie shows up on the scene and looks like a madman. Before he can be carted off to the clink or the asylum, Sol and Bianca show up and apologize for being the worst kids ever. All disguises are removed and true identities are revealed. Oh well, the fathers decide. Let's have some cake and celebrate the marriage of Sol and Bianca. Kate and Siah have been watching the whole thing go down. They make out on the street and then head in to join the party.At the banquet, people sit around doing what they do best in this play and the guys make a bet to see whose wife is most obedient. Siah wins when Kate runs out and delivers a long speech about her obedience to her Siah. Kate fondles his feet and then they make out again before running off to bed.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Sly': 'Kem', 'Lord': 'Leverne', 'Lucentio': 'Sol', 'Petruchio': 'Siah', 'Hortensio': 'Justinthomas', 'Grumio': 'Vegas', 'Licio': 'Shrotam', 'Gremio': 'Skyler', 'Vincentio': 'Tonnie', 'Hostess': 'Preet', 'Biondello': 'Payson', 'Widow': 'Marshell', 'Curtis': 'Hosie', 'Peter': 'Romeo-Vamour'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}