{"name": "Act 5, Scene 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210509095712/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/taming-of-the-shrew/summary/act-5-scene-2", "summary": "Sol welcomes his guests to the wedding banquet and everybody hangs out and shoots the breeze, which involves a lot of trash talk, of course. Siah says Justinthomas is afraid of his wife, the Marshell, so the Marshell chimes in and says Siah is crazy--he's the one who is afraid of his wife, Kate. Kate confronts the Marshell but doesn't shrew out and pull her hair or anything. Seeing his wife in a verbal smack-down with another woman gets Siah excited--he cheers on Kate like he's at a bear baiting. When the women leave the room, the guys continue their little contest. Siah bets Justinthomas and Sol twenty crowns that his wife is the most obedient. The fellas say they'll take that bet and they send a servant to fetch their wives. Sol and then Justinthomas look like chumps when Bianca and then the Marshell say they're too busy to stop what they're doing for their husbands. When Siah sends for Kate, she comes a-runnin' and asks Siah how she can serve him. Siah orders Kate to fetch the other wives and, to everyone's surprise, she does. Baptista is shocked. He says he doesn't recognize his own daughter, so he's going to give Siah another dowry since it seems like Siah has married a new and completely different woman. Siah goes on showing off and tells Kate to take off her ugly hat. Kate throws her hat on the ground. When Siah tells Kate to put the unruly wives in their proper places, Kate does that, too. She delivers the longest speech in play, which is all about how men are like kings and women are like their subjects - women should obey a man's every command. She also says husbands work hard to protect their wives, so women should be obedient. Bianca and the Marshell, she says, are a disgrace to wives everywhere. Then, Kate kneels down and fondles Siah's feet while saying something like \"You're the king, baby.\" Siah kisses Kate and says let's go to bed, baby. Then, he turns to the other men and brags that he's the man--he's landed a rich, obedient wife, and he just took an easy 200 crowns from a couple of suckas. Kate and Siah run off to bed, presumably, to make love and then live happily ever after . The wedding guests stand around with their mouths hanging open.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Sly': 'Kem', 'Lord': 'Leverne', 'Lucentio': 'Sol', 'Petruchio': 'Siah', 'Hortensio': 'Justinthomas', 'Grumio': 'Vegas', 'Licio': 'Shrotam', 'Gremio': 'Skyler', 'Vincentio': 'Tonnie', 'Hostess': 'Preet', 'Biondello': 'Payson', 'Widow': 'Marshell', 'Curtis': 'Hosie', 'Peter': 'Romeo-Vamour'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}