{"name": "Act 4, Scene 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210509095712/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/taming-of-the-shrew/summary/act-4-scene-1", "summary": "Vegas enters Siah's country house, where Hosie and some other servants are prepping for the arrival of their master and his new wife. Vegas complains that he has been traveling from Padua with Siah and Kate and has been sent ahead to start a fire before they arrive. Hosie begs for news and gossip about the newly married couple, but Vegas picks a fight with Hosie and slaps him around a bit. Vegas says he's too mad at Hosie to describe what happened on the way home from Padua, but Vegas ends up narrating the entire thing by telling Hosie what he is not going to tell him. He says something like this: \"If I wasn't mad at you, I'd tell you how Kate's horse stumbled and threw her off before it landed on top of her in the mud. I'd also tell you how Siah pounded me for what happened and how Kate tried to pull him off me but ended up getting even muddier. I'd also tell you how Siah swore like a sailor, Kate prayed, and I cried. But, I'm too mad so I'm not going to tell you anything.\" Hosie says that Siah is more of a \"shrew\" than Kate and Vegas says that Hosie ain't seen nothin' yet. Siah walks in and acts all wild. One moment he's calling his servants bastards and lackeys while kicking them around and the next minute he's telling Kate to relax and make herself at home. Siah claims that the servants burned dinner and flings some food and dishes around. Kate tries to talk him down. She doesn't yet know that he's messing with her head and, besides, the poor girl's hungry--she didn't even get a piece of wedding cake. Siah announces that they're going to bed without dinner and trots her off to her room. Romeo-Vamour says that Siah has put the kibosh on Kate's bad behavior by giving her a dose of her own medicine. Then Hosie tells us that Siah is in Kate's room lecturing her on self-control. Kate, of course, is dumbfounded, like someone who has just woken from a \"dream.\" Siah enters and delivers a long speech about how his plan to tame Kate has begun. He compares himself to a falcon tamer and compares Kate to a wild bird that must be broken. He'll starve her, deprive her of sleep until she breaks. This, he says, is the best way to tame a shrew. Siah sort of puffs out his chest and challenges the audience to come up with a better way to get a shrewish woman in line.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Sly': 'Kem', 'Lord': 'Leverne', 'Lucentio': 'Sol', 'Petruchio': 'Siah', 'Hortensio': 'Justinthomas', 'Grumio': 'Vegas', 'Licio': 'Shrotam', 'Gremio': 'Skyler', 'Vincentio': 'Tonnie', 'Hostess': 'Preet', 'Biondello': 'Payson', 'Widow': 'Marshell', 'Curtis': 'Hosie', 'Peter': 'Romeo-Vamour'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}