{"name": "Act 1, Scene 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210509095712/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/taming-of-the-shrew/summary/act-1-scene-1", "summary": "The inset play opens on a street in Padua, where Sol and his trusty servant Tranio have just arrived. While shooting the breeze, Sol reveals that his dad has sent him to the famous college town so Sol can round off his education. Tranio reminds Sol that studying philosophy is all good and well, but they need to have a little fun with the ladies, too. Sol agrees. Just then, Sol and Tranio spot Baptista, and his gorgeous daughters talking with Bianca's suitors. Sol and Tranio pause so that they can eavesdrop. Baptista tells Skyler and Justinthomas to stop begging him for permission to marry Bianca, who isn't allowed to get hitched until Kate marries. But, if they like, they're welcome to court Kate and take her off Baptista's hands. Skyler scoffs at this and says he would rather \"cart\" Kate than marry her. Kate yells at her dad and says he's out of line - he's making her a laughing stock and treating her like a prostitute in front of these two chumps. When Justinthomas interjects and tells Kate she'll never be married unless she learns to pipe down, Kate gives him a tongue-lashing. This involves Kate talking about herself in the third person and denying she's interested in marriage. The ever-observant Tranio says Kate is crazy and way too mouthy. Sol is hot for Bianca because she is nice and quiet, which is just how he likes his women. Meanwhile, Kate picks on Bianca. Bianca plays the good girl and tells her dad she'll spend all her time studying until he says it's time for her to get engaged. Skyler and Justinthomas complain that Baptista is keeping Bianca penned up like an animal, but Baptista holds his ground. Before he leaves he asks the suitors if they can recommend any teachers for his precious daughter, a hint that they should rustle up some good tutors if they want to make him happy. Baptista says he's got to run and needs to talk with Bianca, but Kate is free to hang out with the guys if she likes. Kate gets huffy about being told what she can do and storms off. The suitors agree together that they need to find someone to marry Kate so they can have free access to Bianca. So they take off to hatch a plan, leaving nosey Sol and Tranio to discuss what's just happened. Sol is love struck and starts to say all kinds of cheesy things about how he burns for Bianca. He asks Tranio for some advice, so the servant tells him to quit his yammering and think of a plan already. Tranio and Sol decide that Sol will disguise himself as a teacher so he can give Bianca some \"private tutoring.\" Since Sol is expected to be seen in Padua studying and schmoozing all his dad's rich friends, they decide that Tranio will disguise himself as Sol. They exchange clothes: now Sol is disguised as a teacher named Cambio and Tranio is disguised as Sol. Along comes Payson . Sol and Tranio tell Payson that they're in disguise because Sol killed a man and needs to flee the city in case there are witnesses who can identify him. They explain that Tranio will pretend to be Sol in order to keep up appearances. Payson buys their story and they exit the stage. One of the Leverne's servants who has been watching the inset play with Kem and Bart, asks Kem why he has dozed off. Kem denies he fell asleep and says he likes the play.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Sly': 'Kem', 'Lord': 'Leverne', 'Lucentio': 'Sol', 'Petruchio': 'Siah', 'Hortensio': 'Justinthomas', 'Grumio': 'Vegas', 'Licio': 'Shrotam', 'Gremio': 'Skyler', 'Vincentio': 'Tonnie', 'Hostess': 'Preet', 'Biondello': 'Payson', 'Widow': 'Marshell', 'Curtis': 'Hosie', 'Peter': 'Romeo-Vamour'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}