{"name": "Act 3, Scene 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210509095712/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/taming-of-the-shrew/summary/act-3-scene-2", "summary": "Fast forward to the wedding day. Baptista and Katherine are ticked off because Siah is very late. Both worry about looking like a couple of idiots if he blows them off. Kate runs from the room in tears and Baptista says he gets why she's so upset. Even an incredibly patient person would be put off by Siah's lateness, so of course someone as shrewish as Kate is going to freak out. Payson enters and says that Siah is on his way over. He then describes Siah's little procession to Baptista's house: Siah is dressed in some crazy costume and looks like a bum. He's also riding in on a lame old horse that appears to be ready for the glue factory. Siah enters looking exactly as Payson described and pretends that he didn't just roll up to his wedding looking like a Technicolor hobo. Baptista is shocked and asks him to change clothes, but Siah blows him off and says Kate isn't getting married to his clothes. Then Siah jokes with Baptista about how he's going to have sex with his daughter that night and says he's going to find Kate right now so he can get a little preview. Meanwhile, Tranio and Sol scheme about how to seal the deal with Baptista. They need to find an old man to pretend to be Sol's dad so Baptista will sign the dowry contracts. Sol says he and Bianca just want to elope, but they can't because Justinthomas is always watching. Apparently, Sol's \"tutoring\" lessons have paid off and Bianca is just as into him as he is into her. Skyler enters and says he's just come from the church, where he watched Kate and Siah's wedding. Skyler says that Siah acted like a jerk--he swore at and then back-handed the priest during the ceremony and then stuck his tongue down Kate's throat when the ceremony ended. The make-out session was just a tad noisy. Siah also pounded all the wine instead of sharing it with his guests. The wedding party enters just then and Siah announces that he and Kate have to run, but the guests should go ahead and party at the wedding reception without them. Baptista and Kate beg Siah to stay, he refuses, and Kate says that's fine but she's not going anywhere. Vegas tells us in an \"aside\" that Siah's taming plan is about to begin. Siah repeats that everyone should enjoy the party, as his wife has commanded--he'll see to it that they obey her. His beautiful Kate, however, is going home with him because she's his wife and therefore his property, along with his house, his barn, his horse, his ox, and he'll protect her to the end. He warns the guests not to touch his bride, and tells Vegas to draw his sword and help save Kate from all the vultures that wish to steal her away from him. Then Siah, Kate, and Vegas all run off. The wedding guests laugh at this big production and joke that crazy old Kate has married someone just as crazy as she is. Baptista shrugs his shoulders--Kate's no longer his problem--and tells Bianca and Tranio to sit at the bride and groom's places. They'll just pretend all that unpleasantness didn't happen and will try to enjoy the celebration without them.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Sly': 'Kem', 'Lord': 'Leverne', 'Lucentio': 'Sol', 'Petruchio': 'Siah', 'Hortensio': 'Justinthomas', 'Grumio': 'Vegas', 'Licio': 'Shrotam', 'Gremio': 'Skyler', 'Vincentio': 'Tonnie', 'Hostess': 'Preet', 'Biondello': 'Payson', 'Widow': 'Marshell', 'Curtis': 'Hosie', 'Peter': 'Romeo-Vamour'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}