{"name": "Act 1, Scene 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210509095712/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/taming-of-the-shrew/summary/act-1-scene-2", "summary": "Having just arrived in Padua from Verona, Siah and his servant Vegas stand at Justinthomas's front door. When Siah says \"Here, sirrah Vegas; knock, I say,\" Vegas thinks he is being asked to slap his master. Not wanting to get beat down, Vegas refuses to do this. The pair go round and round and Vegas continues to misinterpret Siah's order for him to knock on the door. Siah finally gets fed up and twists Vegas's ears until the old man falls to his knees. Just then, Justinthomas opens the door and is surprised to see his old pal Siah beating up on an old servant. Siah and Justinthomas greet each other in Italian, which Vegas mistakes for Latin. Vegas whines to Justinthomas that Siah is a big meanie and says he should quit his job because he was punished for refusing to pummel his master. Siah explains that Vegas is an idiot because he asked the servant to knock on the door, not to knock him upside the head. Vegas continues to grumble and Siah says he's about to get knocked out if he doesn't zip it. Justinthomas tells Siah to chill out and asks his buddy what brings him to Padua. We learn that Siah's dad recently died and left Siah a nice little inheritance. Wanting to fatten up his bank account some more, Siah has come to Padua to bag a rich wife. Justinthomas jokes that he knows the perfect woman - a super rich shrew named Katherine. Siah says that sounds awesome because he's all about money - \"wivin' and thrivin'\" is his motto. His wife can be ugly, old, and/or shrewish - it really doesn't matter to him because money = happiness. Justinthomas says he was just joking around, but since Siah insists, he'll be a good pal and will help to hook him up with Kate. He warns Siah again and says that he personally wouldn't marry Kate for all the money in the world. When Siah finds out that his dead dad knew Kate's dad, he decides he wants to hustle on over to Kate's house for a chat with her old man. Justinthomas tags along so he can hit on Bianca. Justinthomas explains that he will dress up as a private tutor and he wants Siah to present him as a \"gift\" to Kate's dad. That way, Siah can get in good with Baptista and Justinthomas can make sweet love to Bianca in secret. At that moment, Skyler and Sol happen along. Skyler brags that he has hired Cambio as a gift for Baptista. Skyler has no idea that Cambio is really Sol as he explains that Cambio should only teach Bianca from books of love poetry, which will be doused in perfume to get Bianca in the mood for some lovin'. Sol tells Skyler that he will talk to Bianca on Skyler's behalf and will woo her even better than Skyler. Siah's servant Vegas comments under his breath that Skyler is a total chump . Skyler and Sol talk some trash until Sol says he has good news for both of them - his old pal Siah is in town and wants to marry Kate. Skyler can't believe his ears and worries that Siah doesn't know what he's getting himself into. Siah tells them not to worry - he's the shrew-taming king. This sounds good to Skyler and Justinthomas, who promise to reimburse Siah for any money he has to spend while he woos Kate, so long as he marries her. Tranio arrives on the scene and asks for directions to Baptista's house, which worries Siah and Skyler because they don't want any more competition. The suitors bicker amongst themselves until they agree that, if Tranio wants in on the deal, he will have to pony up some cash to help cover Siah's expenses. Tranio agrees. That settled, the guys decide they should hang out together over dinner and some cocktails.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Sly': 'Kem', 'Lord': 'Leverne', 'Lucentio': 'Sol', 'Petruchio': 'Siah', 'Hortensio': 'Justinthomas', 'Grumio': 'Vegas', 'Licio': 'Shrotam', 'Gremio': 'Skyler', 'Vincentio': 'Tonnie', 'Hostess': 'Preet', 'Biondello': 'Payson', 'Widow': 'Marshell', 'Curtis': 'Hosie', 'Peter': 'Romeo-Vamour'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}