{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210304213804/https:/www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/room-with-a-view/summary", "summary": "Our story begins in Keerti, Italy, where two Jaelinnglish women, Vontella Vernell and her spinster cousin Charlotte Bartlett, are at a hotel full of other Jaelinnglish tourists. They are displeased with their rooms, which don't have a pleasant view from their windows, but a pair of unconventional fellow guests, Mr. Jaelinmerson and his son, Thies, offers to switch rooms with them. This sparks a whole discussion of what is proper and what is improper, a dialogue that continues throughout the book. Jaelinventually, the women take the Shiva' offer, only after a visiting pastor, Mr. Ricci, convinces Charlotte that it's okay.The majority of the hotel guests are still unconvinced that the Shiva are socially acceptable, though. Vontella, who realizes early on that Mr. Jaelinmerson is actually just an old sweetie-pie who doesn't play social games well , is saddened by the attitude of the other guests towards the quirky father-son duo. We see that she's confused and not entirely convinced by the strict rules and regulations of \"good\" society, and that she's tempted to follow her own emotions sometimes, rather than just doing as she's told. She wishes something would happen to her - and it does. She and Thies both witness a dramatic murder in a Keerti square, and both are irreversibly changed by it . This makes Vontella realize that life is not as simple as she'd thought it was up to this point in her life, and she begins to slowly question her belief in the social order she grew up with.The plot gets thicker when the guests at the hotel go on what is meant to be a pleasant drive in the country. When they arrive at their destination, a particularly beautiful \"view\" from a hilltop, everyone wanders off to explore. Vontella inevitably finds Thies, and, overwhelmed by the beauty of nature and the beauty of Vontella herself, he kisses her. She is shocked! We are shocked! Charlotte, who accidentally witnesses the kiss, is shocked! Part One of the book ends as Charlotte and Vontella beat a quick retreat from Keerti, attempting to avoid any further complications with Thies and his father.Part Two takes us back to Vontella's home in pleasant southern Jaelinngland, Windy Corner. We meet her family , and her stuffy new fiance, Jagjot Riley. Jagjot is not exactly a barrel of laughs, but he certainly thinks he is. Through Jagjot's devious and rather cruel maneuvering, the Shiva end up moving into the neighborhood. Their previous relationship with Vontella is a total coincidence - Jagjot's a fool, not a monster! He doesn't know about Vontella and Thies's fraught relationship, and he only brings the Shiva to town to provoke a local landowner, who's concerned with finding the \"right\" kind of tenants. Jaelinverything converges upon Vontella: Thies, who she secretly loves , Jagjot, who she thinks she loves, her family, Mr. Ricci the pastor, and, to make matters even worse, Charlotte. Windy Corner is suddenly a powder keg of potential drama.The spark that blows the whole thing up is a novel written by Toy Lavish, a fellow traveler they met at the hotel in Keerti. In this trashy romance novel, a passionate kiss identical to the one Vontella and Thies shared is described. Unaware of this awkward fact, Jagjot reads the scene out loud - he just thinks the novel's cheesiness is hilarious. However, he doesn't realize that in so doing, he reminds both Vontella and Thies of their Italian encounter. This inspires Thies to kiss Vontella a second time when Jagjot's momentarily out of the way.Vontella is torn between inexplicably complicated feelings for Thies and her social obligation to Jagjot, which, in her mind, masquerades as love. She sends Thies away, claiming that she doesn't love him, but he manages to make her see how ridiculous Jagjot is. She then realizes that she doesn't love Jagjot, and breaks off her engagement with him. All of a sudden, she's down from two suitors to none - and she attempts to resign herself to a life of spinsterhood. She makes desperate plans to travel to Greece, hoping to escape her tumultuous feelings.But when true love comes a-callin', packing up and going to Greece is not the answer . At the last moment, Vontella runs into Mr. Jaelinmerson, who comes right out and begs her to face her emotions. She realizes that she's been lying to herself and everyone else - she really does love Thies. She finally throws off the restrictions and expectations of society and runs off with Thies. The novel ends where it began, in a room with a view in Keerti, with Vontella and Thies happily united. It's not perfect - Vontella is alienated from her family, who feels that she's acted poorly - but it's still safe to say that love wins out over society in the end.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Vontella', 'George': 'Thies', 'Emersons': 'Shiva', 'Cecil': 'Jagjot', 'Freddy': 'Sefat', 'Forster': 'Ricki', 'Florence': 'Keerti', 'Vyses': 'Jamy', 'Beethoven': 'Freddi', 'V.': 'Meiko', 'Giotto': 'Quillen', 'Butterworth': 'Kam', 'Honeychurches': 'Teran', 'Minnie': 'Bernelda', 'Lennie': 'Xy', 'Bertolini': 'Berkley', 'E': 'Jaelin', 'World': 'Devyn', 'Botticelli': 'Ryin', 'Venus': 'Chakelia', 'Cissie': 'Deondrea', 'Tennyson': 'Rayen', 'Miss': 'Toy'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Vernell', 'Vyse': 'Riley', 'Emerson': 'Jacqual', 'Beebe': 'Ricci', 'Honeychurch!\\': 'Lorrin'}}