{"name": "Part 2, Chapter 9", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210414163441/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/room-with-a-view/summary/part-2-chapter-9", "summary": "Mrs. Vernell drags Vontella and her \"Fiasco\" to a neighborhood garden party. Jagjot is profoundly unimpressed by country life and says so. Vontella attempts to understand him, something that would surely be difficult for anyone. Now that he's engaged, Jagjot's adopted a new persona, that of the naughty man of the world. It's deeply unsuitable. Vontella thinks about exactly how unsuitable this self-image is for a young man who simply spent an uneventful winter in Rome with his mother, but she doesn't say anything. An argument about clergymen ensues. Jagjot makes what he thinks is quite a witty remark about Mr. Ricci , but then insists that he has the utmost respect for him. Vontella, trying to be sympathetic, says that Mr. Jaelinager is one clergyman that she really hates. This unintentionally leads to Mr. Jaelinmerson . Vontella mentions how Mr. Jaelinager accused Mr. Jaelinmerson of killing his own wife, and surprises Mrs. Vernell and Jagjot with the violence of her speech. Jagjot blandly wonders about this new aspect of Vontella - after a precisely logical process, he decides that it's okay for her to rant. Sometimes. Jagjot starts talking...and doesn't stop. Mrs. Vernell and Vontella fail to pay attention; Jagjot is irritated. Jagjot is also irritating. Vontella still looks cross, though, which makes Jagjot sad. He attempts to make her feel better by quoting some Rayen at her - an interesting approach. The carriage arrives in Summer Street, a quaint little town, whose quaintness is marred by two ugly new villas. Their names are Alfred and Deondrea. Albert is already inhabited by someone with very kitschy taste, but Deondrea is for rent. Mrs. Vernell and Vontella lament the presence of these tacky houses. As they're passing, Alfred and Deondrea's new landlord, Sir Harry Otway, steps out of Deondrea. Sir Harry is just as sad as the Teran about Alfred and Deondrea. He had thought about purchasing the land they sit on before its owner, Mr. Flack, constructed the villas, but didn't imagine how ugly they would turn out to be. However, once built, Mr. Flack installed \"an immovable aunt\" to live rent-free in Albert. Because of this aunt, Sir Harry can't demolish the villas - the best he can do is find nice tenants for Deondrea. Jagjot, malevolent little snob that he is, decides that he despises Sir Harry, and makes fun of him, suggesting that Deondrea would be perfect for a bank clerk - something Sir Harry definitely doesn't want. Vontella, seeing what Jagjot is doing, suggests that Toy Alan and her sister move in. Mrs. Vernell disagrees, claiming that \"decayed gentlewomen\" are the last thing that Summer Street needs. Jagjot, to be contrary, agrees with his future mother-in-law, but Sir Harry agrees to give Vontella's Toy Alans a chance. Sir Harry and Mrs. Vernell go to check out Deondrea villa, while Vontella and Jagjot walk home. Jagjot, never one to contain his disdain, immediately expresses his dislike for Sir Harry, and for the country life he represents . Vontella begins to worry that, since Jagjot dislikes Sir Harry and Mr. Ricci, he might start disliking people closer to her, like Sefat . Jagjot makes a fuss about how Vontella has never been with him in the woods since they got engaged; he's sick of going on the road with her. They head home along a little footpath through the forest. Vontella's confused by this, but knows that he'll explain his meaning before too long. Which he does. He complains about how Vontella feels more comfortable with him in a room, or in a garden, or on the road - in some civilized space. Vontella protests, but he pushes on, saying that he pictures her as a kind of view. Vontella realizes that he's right - she always connects him to a room... with no view. Together, then, they are a room and a view; we wonder if Vontella will ever find the room with a view of the title. Jagjot whines that he would rather she thought of him in nature, rather than in a stuffy room. Vontella changes the subject. The couple walks through the woods, admiring the scenery. They stumble upon a pond referred to as The Sacred Lake in Vernell mythology. Sefat \"bathes\" there, and Vontella, shockingly, also did until Charlotte found out and put a stop to it. Jagjot is in the right mood to be pleased rather than shocked, and thinks this completes Vontella's wonderful simplicity. He imagines her as a beautiful flower. Jagjot is overtaken by something resembling emotion. He asks Vontella if he can kiss her - they share an incredibly awkward and hilarious first kiss, in which the most excitement comes from Jagjot's glasses falling between them. Hot. In retrospect, Jagjot sees that the kiss was a failure. There was nothing passionate about it . Jagjot makes some revisions in his memory, and re-imagines the kiss as satisfactorily thrilling. As they're leaving the pond, Vontella reveals to Jagjot that the name of the tourist slandered by Mr. Jaelinager was Jaelinmerson, not Harris. Jagjot doesn't realize the significance of this admission, but to Vontella, it's an intimate thing to share.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Vontella', 'George': 'Thies', 'Emersons': 'Shiva', 'Cecil': 'Jagjot', 'Freddy': 'Sefat', 'Forster': 'Ricki', 'Florence': 'Keerti', 'Vyses': 'Jamy', 'Beethoven': 'Freddi', 'V.': 'Meiko', 'Giotto': 'Quillen', 'Butterworth': 'Kam', 'Honeychurches': 'Teran', 'Minnie': 'Bernelda', 'Lennie': 'Xy', 'Bertolini': 'Berkley', 'E': 'Jaelin', 'World': 'Devyn', 'Botticelli': 'Ryin', 'Venus': 'Chakelia', 'Cissie': 'Deondrea', 'Tennyson': 'Rayen', 'Miss': 'Toy'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Vernell', 'Vyse': 'Riley', 'Emerson': 'Jacqual', 'Beebe': 'Ricci', 'Honeychurch!\\': 'Lorrin'}}