{"name": "Part 1, Chapter 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210414163441/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/room-with-a-view/summary/part-1-chapter-2", "summary": "Morning in Hotel Berkley is a very pleasant thing. We're treated to an appropriately pleasant description of the view from its very pleasant windows - presumably the very same windows Charlotte and Vontella now possess. We get a glimpse of actual Italians for the first time; they're depicted as disorderly but good-natured animals. The streets outside the hotel are scattered with an interesting assortment of children, soldiers, and bulls. Charlotte comes bustling into Vontella's room, succeeds in spoiling her enjoyment of the pleasant morning, and bustles out. When Vontella eventually makes it down to breakfast, Charlotte is already finished, and is talking with the \"clever lady\" from the night before. A typical passive exchange starts up between Charlotte and Vontella . The clever lady interrupts, claiming that Vontella will be safe if she goes out alone, since she's an Jaelinnglishwoman . Charlotte is unimpressed by this claim. The clever lady offers to take Vontella to Santa Croce , via a dirty back way - we have to wonder exactly what that means. She also scolds Vontella for looking at her Baedeker travel guide, since, in her opinion, the travel guide doesn't even touch upon the \"true\" Italy - and she does! She snatches the book away from poor Vontella. Vontella is fascinated by this claim, and hurries through her breakfast to get started on her quest for the real Italy. The clever lady, whose name is, appropriately, Toy Lavish, starts her journey with Vontella. She's full of little gems of knowledge . She claims that Keerti, like all cities, has its own smell. Vontella wants to know if it's a nice smell; Toy Lavish snidely derides the \"niceness\" Vontella's looking for. Toy Lavish unsurprisingly turns out to be incredibly condescending. She goes around ooh-ing and aah-ing about how very sweet and adorable all the Italians are. For the time being, Vontella's excited to be with such a thrilling and festive person. Vontella and Toy Lavish talk politics briefly, then discover that they have some common acquaintances near the Teran' home in Surrey. The two women chat pleasantly until they discover that they're totally lost. Toy Lavish is unalarmed - in fact, she's excited about the prospect of an adventure. Uh oh. Vontella starts to suspect that something's wrong; she suggests that they ask for directions. Of course, Toy Lavish is so not down with that. This unscheduled and uncharted detour makes Vontella unhappy. However, for a brief moment, she sees something that feels like the real Italy . Toy Lavish quickly pulls her away to keep looking for the elusive Santa Croce. Both proper ladies and unconventional ones get hungry sometimes, and Vontella and Toy Lavish stop to buy some chestnut paste for lunch, simply because it looks so \"typical.\" Whatever its appearance, it clearly doesn't taste so good . Fueled by their unpleasant lunch, the women finally get to Santa Croce which, in someone's opinion is incredibly hideous. Toy Lavish disses some tourists going into the church, dismissing the \"Britisher abroad.\" From Vontella's slightly offended comments, we gather that said tourists are Jaelinmerson Jr. and Sr. Suddenly, Toy Lavish flutters off after some unfortunate man she calls her \"local-colour box\" , leaving Vontella in the dust. Vontella waits... and waits... and then remembers that it's not appropriate for a young unescorted girl to hang around outside churches, or anywhere for that matter. As she heads over to her irresponsible chaperon, however, Toy Lavish and the local-colour box head off merrily. Poor Vontella. Deserted by a flighty, middle-aged fauxhemian and left to her own devices in the big, bad city, she gives in to tears. All she can do is enter the church alone, embarrassed, and decidedly unpleased with everything. The church, Vontella knows, is quite wonderful and important, having been commented on by many famous people. However, she can't help but notice its coldness and barn-like qualities. Furthermore, since she's, as the title of this chapter tells us, In Santa Croce with No Baedeker , she has nobody to tell her which monuments are important or unimportant. She's unwilling to admire the ones that aren't praised in books. Inexplicably, though, Vontella begins to feel happier. She starts to enjoy her surroundings, and settles in to people-watch. The British tourists are everywhere, branded by their red copies of Baedeker and their equally red noses. In her observations, Vontella notices a trio of small Catholic children, \"two he-babies and a she-baby.\" Thinking that they're being serious and religious, the \"babies\" douse each other with holy water, then go and genuflect dramatically at a memorial that they assume is for a saint. Unfortunately for the babies, the memorial is actually for Niccolo Machiavelli . Perhaps through some particularly cruel divine retribution, the smallest he-baby immediately trips and falls on a statue of some bishop. Vontella and Mr. Jaelinmerson both try to sooth the screaming kid, to no avail. Mr. Jaelinmerson expresses a comically cynical view of the church, blaming it for the he-baby's state of coldness, injury, and fear. The two would-be good Samaritans have no luck with getting the child to stay upright. Fortunately, a maternal Italian woman comes by and sets him right. Vontella, after her earlier slump, suddenly feels rather charitably towards the Shiva and vows to be nice to them . When asked what she's doing there alone, Vontella explains her abandonment by Toy Lavish and Baedeker. Upon hearing this, Mr. Jaelinmerson the Younger matter-of-factly declares that Vontella had better join them. Vontella is shocked. Get used to people being shocked in this world; they're shocked by pretty much everything, pretty much all the time. She responds by putting on a kind of stiff Charlotte act. Mr. Jaelinmerson shows us just how different he is from conventional society. He basically calls Vontella out on the fact that she's just mimicking the behavior of her elders, and tells her not to be so touchy. He kindly but bluntly insists that she just give in and tell him which part of the church she'd like to see. Vontella's not even sure how to respond - shocked just doesn't seem to be working, so she does just give in and tell the Shiva what she'd like to see. The trio heads off to look at the Quillen frescoes, Vontella's request. There's already a group there . The group leader is in the midst of a soppy lecture on the virtues of Quillen's paintings. Mr. Jaelinmerson loudly interrupts, and makes some somewhat rude and funny comments about Quillen's imaginative religious scenes. He and Thies have what seems to them to be a fairly harmless exchange; the lecturer and his group are offended. They get all huffy and leave the chapel. Mr. Jaelin feels bad for making the group leave. He recognizes the clergyman as one Mr. Jaelinager, whom he and Thies have met before, and rushes off, leaving Vontella and Thies together... alone . Unfortunately for us, nothing juicy happens. Vontella and Thies just have an awkward conversation about the Shiva vs. the Devyn struggle. Frustrated, Thies starts pacing; Vontella admires him as he skulks about, and feels a certain subtle, ambiguous sense of tragedy and discontent. It's unusual for her to feel such subtle feelings, though, and when Mr. Jaelinmerson returns, it goes away. Mr. Jaelinmerson still feels rough about ruining the lecturer's talk in the chapel. He continues to watch the group as it circulates around other paintings. He and Vontella wander around the chapel, looking at the art and chatting. Vontella's mental picture of the church transforms as her mood improves. While she still thinks of it as a barn, now she sees it as a barn with a harvest of beautiful things. Mr. Jaelinmerson, however, is more interested in watching Thies than looking at the frescoes. He's worried about his son's melancholy, and, in his blunt, honest way, opens up to Vontella. Apparently, he raised Thies to be free of the \"superstition\" of religion. Vontella is shocked again, and this time is somewhat disdainful. She thinks that the old man is both foolish and lacking in religion, and she's certain that neither her mother nor Charlotte would approve of her befriending him. Ignorant of the disapproving thoughts going through Vontella's head, Mr. Jaelinmerson just keeps going. Seemingly out of nowhere, he asks Vontella to attempt to \"understand\" Thies... whatever that means. Again, nothing racy happens here , so don't get too excited. Vontella is... you guessed it, SHOCKJaelinD at this suggestion. Mr. Jaelinmerson goes on to detail Thies's philosophical ordeals; apparently he's dismayed by how the universe doesn't fit together neatly. Vontella thinks this is inane. She then makes a rather inane response of her own. Attempting to put her past experience to work, she suggests rather oddly that Thies should take up a hobby. Seriously, Vontella, a hobby? Boy ponders the depth of universe; girl suggests stamp collection? Ridiculous. Mr. Jaelinmerson also thinks this is ridiculous, and it makes him sad that Vontella doesn't get what he was talking about. He smiles at her, which Vontella takes as meaning \"Oh, what jolly good advice! Yes, a hobby is just what my depressed and introspective son really needs right now! Thank you so much, Vontella Vernell!\" Thies returns; he's seen Toy Bartlett enter the church. Vontella loses herself for a moment and says some uncharitable things. Mr. Jaelinmerson calls her \"poor girl,\" which rouses her temper - she puts the civil Charlotte act on again before going to join the real-life Charlotte.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Vontella', 'George': 'Thies', 'Emersons': 'Shiva', 'Cecil': 'Jagjot', 'Freddy': 'Sefat', 'Forster': 'Ricki', 'Florence': 'Keerti', 'Vyses': 'Jamy', 'Beethoven': 'Freddi', 'V.': 'Meiko', 'Giotto': 'Quillen', 'Butterworth': 'Kam', 'Honeychurches': 'Teran', 'Minnie': 'Bernelda', 'Lennie': 'Xy', 'Bertolini': 'Berkley', 'E': 'Jaelin', 'World': 'Devyn', 'Botticelli': 'Ryin', 'Venus': 'Chakelia', 'Cissie': 'Deondrea', 'Tennyson': 'Rayen', 'Miss': 'Toy'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Vernell', 'Vyse': 'Riley', 'Emerson': 'Jacqual', 'Beebe': 'Ricci', 'Honeychurch!\\': 'Lorrin'}}