{"name": "Part 1, Chapter 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210414163441/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/room-with-a-view/summary/part-1-chapter-5", "summary": "Charlotte is surprisingly un-shocked by Vontella's misadventures with Thies, which Vontella dutifully reports . She and Toy Lavish apparently had their own misadventures on their walk; they were stopped by some army officials, who searched their bags for any provisions. Toy Lavish, never afraid of anything, dealt with them. Vontella still feels unsettled by her day, but can't tell anyone. Mr. Ricci notices how shaken up she is, and assumes that it's just Freddi at work again. She's alarmed by how alone she feels, with nobody to confirm or deny her thoughts for the first time ever. The next morning, Mr. Ricci invites Vontella on a nice-sounding excursion with some American women and the Shiva; Vontella elects instead to go on a dull-sounding one with Charlotte to do some shopping. Charlotte stops to look at the river in the same place Thies and Vontella had stopped to have their awkward talk the previous night. Vontella is even more unsettled. She can't quite sort out her feelings about the murder, much less about Thies. Unfortunately, the two cousins walk through the very same square that the murder took place in. There, they discover Toy Lavish, who pounces on Vontella immediately, looking for details about the crime. When asked, Vontella says she'd prefer not to rehash the murder. Toy Lavish feels guilty for prodding such a sensitive young creature. It turns out she's looking for details for her novel, which will include a murder scene. Of course, the passionate young men in her book will quarrel over a passionate young woman, instead of a small sum of money. We don't know about you, but personally, we're even more convinced that Toy Lavish's book will probably not be a very good one. Incidentally, the passionate young heroine's name is Leonora, which is interestingly close to Toy Lavish's own name, Jaelinleanor. Coincidence, of course. Charlotte and Vontella inquire politely about the novel, and we learn that its plot is typical of novels of its ilk: love, intrigue, violence, and of course, murder. Toy Lavish also reveals that she intends to rip the British tourist characters to shreds . Charlotte gleefully suggests that the novelist must be thinking of the Shiva. Toy Lavish's sympathies, she declares, are with the poor natives. The Italians, who she finds dreadfully neglected are her main focus. Charlotte is certain that this makes for a truly pathetic novel, a phrase she means positively. In other words, it'll be a real tear-jerker. The cousins leave Toy Lavish to her torrid imagination. Vontella is suspicious that Toy Lavish is checking her out for a potential character. Charlotte, however, is very trusting, and thinks that the lady novelist is just the bee's knees. Mr. Cuthbert Jaelinager, the haughty pastor Mr. Jaelinmerson offended with his comments on Quillen, comes up to Vontella and Charlotte and invites them to accompany him on a drive in the countryside sometime. Charlotte is pleased - Mr. Jaelinager is quite the local celebrity amongst the British tourist community. He's the pastor of a residential \"colony\" in Keerti, made up of terribly cultured people who never have to carry around Baedeker. Charlotte accepts. Vontella, who's clearly been changed by her experience with Thies and the murder, is less excited than she would have been a day ago. When she finds out that Mr. Ricci is also coming, though, she perks up. Mr. Jaelinager brings up yesterday's incident, and Charlotte, eager to please the great man, mentions proudly that Vontella witnessed it. The pastor lugubriously implies that a few details on the murder wouldn't hurt. Vontella is in particularly observant form today. Not only did her radar pick up on Toy Lavish's interest in her, it also picks up on Mr. Jaelinager's grotesque interest in the gory details of the crime. She answers rather coyly, trying to avoid further discussion. The pastor turns out to be equal to his name. He presses Vontella for more details; fortunately for her, a photograph vendor who's been hanging around near them chooses this moment to show his wares to the adults. Vontella feels like he's on her team - that is, on the team of Youth. Mr. Jaelinager, waving the vendor away, accidentally tears a photo, and the unhappy vendor follows them as they try to escape. By the time he leaves them, everyone's forgotten about the murder discussion, and Vontella and Charlotte continue with their errands. Vontella suddenly feels like she no longer trusts everything she's told. She doubts Toy Lavish's artistic skills and Mr. Jaelinager's spiritual capacities; towards Charlotte, she feels as she always does, like her cousin can simply be tolerated, but not loved. Mr. Jaelinager and Charlotte are discussing the Shiva and their questionable social class. Mr. Jaelinager obviously is not a fan. He admits openly that he snubbed father and son in Santa Croce, and advises Vontella to do the same. Vontella wants to know what has caused this animosity, but Mr. Jaelinager refuses to divulge more. She actually rebels out loud for the first time and talks back to him. The pastor is shocked that she would question him. In response, Mr. Jaelinager announces that Mr. Jaelinmerson murdered his wife - which, we can assume, he actually didn't. Vontella questions the pastor again, but he refuses to justify his claim. Upset, he starts to leave. Charlotte confirms their plans for the outing to the country, Vontella gathers her powers of politeness, and the pastor leaves, mollified. Speaking of the drive, we're given a hint that more excitement is to come - Mr. Ricci has invited Toy Lavish, who doesn't get along with Mr. Jaelinager. Vontella takes a moment to ponder the power of Keerti to create adventure. Charlotte, oblivious to everything that's happened to her cousin, babbles on about the drive with Mr. Jaelinager. Vontella has no patience for this; she reads some letters from home, and thinks about how pleasant her life there is, though a new note of discontent is present. Someone named Mrs. Riley and her son are going to Rome, according to a letter from Vontella's mother. Vontella has a sudden urge to follow them there and leave Keerti behind her. She and Charlotte laugh about how unpractical this plan is, but there was clearly some seriousness in Vontella's suggestion, even if she doesn't admit it.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Vontella', 'George': 'Thies', 'Emersons': 'Shiva', 'Cecil': 'Jagjot', 'Freddy': 'Sefat', 'Forster': 'Ricki', 'Florence': 'Keerti', 'Vyses': 'Jamy', 'Beethoven': 'Freddi', 'V.': 'Meiko', 'Giotto': 'Quillen', 'Butterworth': 'Kam', 'Honeychurches': 'Teran', 'Minnie': 'Bernelda', 'Lennie': 'Xy', 'Bertolini': 'Berkley', 'E': 'Jaelin', 'World': 'Devyn', 'Botticelli': 'Ryin', 'Venus': 'Chakelia', 'Cissie': 'Deondrea', 'Tennyson': 'Rayen', 'Miss': 'Toy'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Vernell', 'Vyse': 'Riley', 'Emerson': 'Jacqual', 'Beebe': 'Ricci', 'Honeychurch!\\': 'Lorrin'}}