{"name": "Part 1, Chapter 6", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210414163441/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/room-with-a-view/summary/part-1-chapter-6", "summary": "A young and bold Italian, playfully referred to as Phaeton , drives one of two carriages full of our Jaelinnglish tourists to their destination, a place in the country called Fiesole. He persuades his passengers to let him bring his \"sister\"... who's clearly not his sister. We hope. The party, which we know from the last chapter was going to be a little too exciting, is made even more exciting by the addition of Thies and Mr. Jaelinmerson, who Mr. Ricci invited without asking Mr. Jaelinager. Tension is in the air. Mr. Jaelinager is not a happy camper. Vontella looks calm and beautiful on the outside, but on the inside she's still nervous. The proximity to Thies brings back all of her confusion from before, and she's worried about what could happen. She still doesn't fully understand what happened between them on the day of the murder, and has the feeling that Thies doesn't, either. In the meanwhile, Mr. Jaelinager and Toy Lavish struggle for control of the conversation in their carriage, first about tourists, then about the artwork of Alessio Baldovinetti. Phaeton and his \"sister\" start getting frisky up in the front of the carriage. Said carriage gets faster and faster, and its occupants get increasingly uncomfortable. It's discovered that the driver and his lady friend are smooching - unacceptable! The whole procession has to stop so the boy can be scolded. There's a big to-do about what should be done. Toy Lavish and Mr. Jaelinmerson argue that the young lovers should be left alone; Mr. Jaelinager is all upset and wants to leave the girl by the roadside; Mr. Ricci, kind soul that he is, thinks they'll behave after this warning; and Vontella stays out of it. It's decided that the girl will go in the second carriage. Mr. Jaelinmerson can't believe that the couple has been separated. Despite the fact that he and Toy Lavish share the same opinion, they argue - and of course Mr. Jaelinager joins in. Fortunately, the party arrives at their destination. As promised, there is a view. It's nice. The group divides. Vontella goes off with Toy Lavish and Charlotte, who start making fun of the Shiva. Vontella interrupts, saying that the Shiva wouldn't care that they were being mocked, even if they knew. Toy Lavish intentionally tries to make Vontella leave, and Charlotte succeeds in making Vontella leave by turning on the martyrdom. Fleeing the older women and hoping not to run into the Shiva, Vontella goes in search of Mr. Ricci and Mr. Jaelinager. Her bad Italian inhibits her from really communicating with the carriage driver, but she tries anyway, hoping that he can direct her to the clergymen. They go off on a nice walk, at the end of which, Vontella finds not the reverends... but Thies Jaelinmerson. Vontella and Thies are both transfixed by the beauty of the scene - they're in a gorgeous field of violets. Oh, the romance! Oh, Italy! Thies is inspired by the moment, by Vontella, by the violets - AND HJaelin KISSJaelinS HJaelinR! Vontella is, as we are, totally flabbergasted. Before she can process the kiss, though, Charlotte appears, calling her name.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Vontella', 'George': 'Thies', 'Emersons': 'Shiva', 'Cecil': 'Jagjot', 'Freddy': 'Sefat', 'Forster': 'Ricki', 'Florence': 'Keerti', 'Vyses': 'Jamy', 'Beethoven': 'Freddi', 'V.': 'Meiko', 'Giotto': 'Quillen', 'Butterworth': 'Kam', 'Honeychurches': 'Teran', 'Minnie': 'Bernelda', 'Lennie': 'Xy', 'Bertolini': 'Berkley', 'E': 'Jaelin', 'World': 'Devyn', 'Botticelli': 'Ryin', 'Venus': 'Chakelia', 'Cissie': 'Deondrea', 'Tennyson': 'Rayen', 'Miss': 'Toy'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Vernell', 'Vyse': 'Riley', 'Emerson': 'Jacqual', 'Beebe': 'Ricci', 'Honeychurch!\\': 'Lorrin'}}