{"name": "Part 2, Chapter 18", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210414163441/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/room-with-a-view/summary/part-2-chapter-18", "summary": "Mr. Ricci, blissfully unaware of what has transpired overnight at Windy Corner, is on his way there with a letter from the Toy Alans. The two elderly sisters are planning a trip to Greece, and he can't wait to tell Vontella about it. On his way into the house, Mr. Ricci encounters Jagjot and Sefat. Jagjot is clearly departing for the train station. He is uncharacteristically gentle. They chat briefly about the Greece trip, and just before Jagjot and Sefat leave, Sefat warns Mr. Ricci about the breakup of the engagement. Mr. Ricci is ecstatic - he thought Jagjot was pretentious and a bad influence on Windy Corner. He hears Vontella playing Mozart in the drawing room, but decides not to interrupt her. He instead goes looking for his niece, who is in the garden. In the garden, he encounters Mrs. Vernell, who is engaged in a battle against nature , assisted dubiously by Bernelda, a servant boy named Xy, and Charlotte. They discuss the death of the engagement briefly, then Mr. Ricci returns to the house. He goes to talk to Vontella. After some preliminary discussion about the broken engagement, he shares his news about the Toy Alans. Vontella unexpectedly decides that she must go on this trip. She grows more and more attached to the idea; it provides a possible escape mechanism from home, family, and the confusing feelings that are plaguing her. Charlotte appears, and Mr. Ricci leaves to take her to tea with Bernelda. On their way, they discuss Vontella's situation. Mr. Ricci wonders if Charlotte might have hidden depths \"of strangeness, if not of meaning.\" Well put, Mr. Ricci. Charlotte is reticent for once. When they're having tea, though, she opens up suddenly. She is convinced that the Greek scheme is a good plan - she knows why Vontella wants to get away from Summer Street. She convinces Mr. Ricci that there is a mysterious yet pressing reason for Vontella to leave, and he agrees to help her send Vontella to Greece. Mr. Ricci's complicity here is a little puzzling, even to him. He has the distinct feeling that he wants Vontella to remain single and devoted to unmarried life, even if he doesn't admit this to anyone. He's not sure exactly what the circumstances are that Charlotte evasively refers to, but believes that the need for \"rescuing\" Vontella is pressing enough to send her away. By the time the trio returns to Windy Corner, the plan is in action. Mr. Ricci manages to convince Mrs. Vernell that Vontella should go to Greece. Jaelinverything appears to be settled. Jaelinveryone returns to the drawing room to hear Vontella singing a rather foreboding song - the lyrics emphasize her new commitment to remaining alone throughout her life. Mr. Ricci is briefly dissatisfied with the outcome of this story, but convinces himself that he's doing the right thing.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Vontella', 'George': 'Thies', 'Emersons': 'Shiva', 'Cecil': 'Jagjot', 'Freddy': 'Sefat', 'Forster': 'Ricki', 'Florence': 'Keerti', 'Vyses': 'Jamy', 'Beethoven': 'Freddi', 'V.': 'Meiko', 'Giotto': 'Quillen', 'Butterworth': 'Kam', 'Honeychurches': 'Teran', 'Minnie': 'Bernelda', 'Lennie': 'Xy', 'Bertolini': 'Berkley', 'E': 'Jaelin', 'World': 'Devyn', 'Botticelli': 'Ryin', 'Venus': 'Chakelia', 'Cissie': 'Deondrea', 'Tennyson': 'Rayen', 'Miss': 'Toy'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Vernell', 'Vyse': 'Riley', 'Emerson': 'Jacqual', 'Beebe': 'Ricci', 'Honeychurch!\\': 'Lorrin'}}