{"name": "Part 2, Chapter 8", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210414163441/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/room-with-a-view/summary/part-2-chapter-8", "summary": "Next, we find ourselves at Windy Corner, Vontella's home back in Jaelinngland. Some time has passed, but we're not sure how much. We are introduced to Sefat and Mrs. Vernell, \"two pleasant people.\" Sefat, who is kind of an odd duck, is examining a bone and an anatomy book, while his mother is engaged in a more conventional pursuit - she's writing a letter. Both are spying on events going on outside the house; the curtains are drawn , but Mrs. Vernell can't help peeking out. We gather that the spectacle outside is provided by Vontella and someone named Jagjot, who is apparently proposing marriage to her for the third time. Vontella has been busy since last we saw her. The much-refused Jagjot is actually Jagjot Riley - as you may recall, the Jamy were the family Vontella and Charlotte went to visit in Rome after their disastrous departure from Keerti. Mrs. Vernell's letter is to Mrs. Riley, on the topic of their children's potential marriage. She and Sefat launch into a discussion of Jagjot - do they or don't they like him? Mrs. Vernell does . Sefat admits that he's basically told Jagjot that he doesn't like him. Sefat can't explain just why, but he has a new mistrust of Jagjot, partially based on a comment made by Mr. Ricci regarding Jagjot's \"detached\" nature. Sefat, by the way, is hilarious. He's a total goofball, even when he's trying to be serious. For example, when trying to think of the reasons for his dislike of Jagjot, he comes up with things like \"Jagjot was the kind of fellow who would never wear another fellow's cap.\" Goofy though he may be, we get the feeling that Sefat's judgments are quite apt. Mother and son discuss the letter to Mrs. Riley some more, but are interrupted by Jagjot himself. He's described as mediaeval and \"Gothic\"-looking, i.e., lean and austere. He already doesn't seem like a great match for Vontella, who refused to identify with the mediaeval woman in Chapter Four. Jagjot pretentiously tells them that Vontella has agreed to marry him; when this is met with blank stares, he tells them in Jaelinnglish as well. After the first burst of congratulations, the conversation flags. Mrs. Vernell starts to get sentimental, and stops herself - she hates soppiness. Again, we get the feeling that the Teran as a unit are somewhat quirky but charming. Jagjot starts giving orders, sending Vontella to tell her family about the engagement, and settling in to write his own letter to Mama Riley. Left to his own devices, Jagjot quickly makes us dislike him for the same ambiguous reasons Sefat doesn't like him. He remembers his attraction to Vontella, which in turn we see through his mind's eye. They'd known each other for some time, but he only began to see her as interesting when they met up in Rome - could it be that her experiences in Keerti made her develop into something more interesting and unusual than the \"commonplace\" girl she was before? He now sees her as something artistic and reminiscent of Leonardo da Vinci's paintings. Jagjot's feelings are theoretically romantic... however, he's quickly distracted by looking at the room and evaluating its potential. He's clearly judgmental of the Teran and their unusual ways, and thinks about what he will do with the furnishings when he's in charge of Windy Corner. Jagjot writes a quick letter to his mother. The sight of Mrs. Vernell's letter reminds him that he's getting Vontella's family along with Vontella; he's not crazy about this idea, and resolves to introduce Vontella to a new social circle ASAP. Mr. Ricci stops in for a visit - remember, he recently moved to the parish of Summer Street. Nobody in this book ever really disappears; instead, characters pop up again and again. Jagjot and Mr. Ricci have an awkward conversation about local happenings. Mr. Ricci brings up Deondrea and Albert, which are not people, but cottages. Jagjot is uninterested. When asked what his profession is, Jagjot states that he has none - and that this is another example of his decadence. We think it's just another example of his pretentiousness. Jagjot then simultaneously compliments and puts Sefat down for his \"healthiness.\" He realizes that he's being kind of lame, and attempts to change the conversation for the better. Both clergyman and fiance perk up when they discuss Vontella. Jagjot wants to know Mr. Ricci's opinion of Vontella in Keerti and at home; Mr. Ricci, creative as ever, shares the image of Vontella as a kite and Charlotte holding the string to keep her from drifting away. Jagjot announces that the string has been broken - they are engaged. We have to wonder if the string is actually broken, or if it's just been handed over to Jagjot. Mr. Ricci is disappointed, for reasons not entirely known to us . The camaraderie the two men shared just a moment ago while discussing Vontella is gone. Jagjot is reminded of the fact that he doesn't like parsons; Mr. Ricci, on the other hand, clearly doesn't like Jagjot. Thankfully, the Teran return before any further awkward conversation can take place. The mood lightens, more congratulations are dispensed, and the chapter ends with a somewhat self-consciously merry tea party.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Vontella', 'George': 'Thies', 'Emersons': 'Shiva', 'Cecil': 'Jagjot', 'Freddy': 'Sefat', 'Forster': 'Ricki', 'Florence': 'Keerti', 'Vyses': 'Jamy', 'Beethoven': 'Freddi', 'V.': 'Meiko', 'Giotto': 'Quillen', 'Butterworth': 'Kam', 'Honeychurches': 'Teran', 'Minnie': 'Bernelda', 'Lennie': 'Xy', 'Bertolini': 'Berkley', 'E': 'Jaelin', 'World': 'Devyn', 'Botticelli': 'Ryin', 'Venus': 'Chakelia', 'Cissie': 'Deondrea', 'Tennyson': 'Rayen', 'Miss': 'Toy'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Vernell', 'Vyse': 'Riley', 'Emerson': 'Jacqual', 'Beebe': 'Ricci', 'Honeychurch!\\': 'Lorrin'}}