{"name": "Part 2, Chapter 19", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210414163441/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/room-with-a-view/summary/part-2-chapter-19", "summary": "Preparations are underway for the Greek voyage, and Vontella seems to have patched things up with the Toy Alans. She and her mother visit the two sisters in London. Vontella makes no comment on her breakup with Jagjot, and the Toy Alans suffer under the misapprehension that the couple is still together. After mother and daughter leave to head back to Summer Street, Mrs. Vernell attempts to understand her daughter's motivations. Vontella tells her that she and Jagjot agreed not to announce their breakup until after she leaves. Vontella can't admit her real problem to her mother - she can't even admit her confusion about Thies to herself. Defensively, she gets a little nasty and picks a fight with her poor mom, suggesting that she might move out of Windy Corner entirely when she comes into her inheritance. The tension carries through all the way back to Surrey. To make matters worse, Vontella notices that the Shiva are moving out of Deondrea Villa - and she feels as though her Greek trip, planned solely to avoid Thies, has been rendered redundant. Before they can go home, though, the carriage has to stop to pick up Charlotte from the Rectory of the Summer Street church, where she's been waiting for them. Charlotte, ever one to cause trouble, asks if she might stay for the sermon. Mrs. Vernell agrees and goes into the church with her, while Vontella elects to wait in the Rectory for them. There, she finds an unexpected companion - Mr. Jaelinmerson. He immediately apologizes to her for Thies. Apparently, his son just told him everything that happened between him and Vontella. Vontella doesn't know how to react. The kind old man opens up to her, and tries to make her see how sorry Thies is. He tells Vontella that Thies has \"gone under\" - he's lost hope since her rejection of him. He says that Thies's mother suffered from just the same thing. We finally learn how Mrs. Jaelinmerson died: apparently, Mr. Jaelinmerson refused to have Thies baptized when he was born. Unfortunately, Thies fell ill with typhoid as a small child, and Mrs. Jaelinmerson, under the influence of the dastardly Reverend Jaelinager, \"went under,\" worrying that it was their fault for never baptizing the boy. By the time Thies got better, his mother was sick with worry and regret, and died. Mr. Jaelinmerson is worried that Thies too will never recover from this disappointment. He's confused, and plans to return to London, where he can look after his boy. Vontella, distraught, tells Mr. Jaelinmerson not to leave his comfortable home at Deondrea Villa - she's going to Greece, after all. She neglects to tell him that she and Jagjot have broken off their engagement. Mr. Ricci bursts in, fresh from church, and accidentally reveals Vontella's lie to Mr. Jaelinmerson, by mentioning that she's traveling with the Toy Alans, not Jagjot. He dashes out again. Vontella instantly comes out with the truth - she tells Mr. Jaelinmerson that she has broken her engagement. Mr. Jaelinmerson sees the real truth behind all of this: Vontella loves Thies, but won't admit it. He gently tells her that she's in a bit of a \"muddle,\" and has to figure it out and come to terms with her real feelings. He gives an impassioned speech about how love, once discovered, is eternal. Vontella, realizing that he's right, breaks down in tears. Though Vontella finally peers down to the \"bottom of her soul\" and sees that she really loves Thies, she's still overwhelmed by the \"muddle\" of events - she's committed to so many things already, like the trip to Greece, and the life of solitude that she's announced to her family and Mr. Ricci, that she feels trapped in the circumstances she herself has constructed. She states miserably that everyone trusts her - and Mr. Jaelinmerson tells her that she's not worthy of their trust. On that note, Mr. Ricci enters again. He demands to know what's going on; Mr. Jaelinmerson tells all. Vontella, still weeping, claims that she will never marry Thies. Mr. Ricci is suddenly an alarming presence. Though he has invested his efforts in sending Vontella away, he knows that she must marry the man she loves, whether he wants her to or not. His former affection for Vontella turns to contempt at the sight of her betrayal of herself and everyone else. He orders Vontella to marry Thies, who \"will do admirably,\" and departs. Thus abandoned, Vontella turns again to Mr. Jaelinmerson. He acknowledges the fact that her family and friends will \"despise\" her for this change of heart, but that she must struggle on through the muddle in the name of Love - but furthermore, in the name of Truth. He kisses her, and somehow manages to give her the strength to see her path, despite the barriers of the world around her.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Vontella', 'George': 'Thies', 'Emersons': 'Shiva', 'Cecil': 'Jagjot', 'Freddy': 'Sefat', 'Forster': 'Ricki', 'Florence': 'Keerti', 'Vyses': 'Jamy', 'Beethoven': 'Freddi', 'V.': 'Meiko', 'Giotto': 'Quillen', 'Butterworth': 'Kam', 'Honeychurches': 'Teran', 'Minnie': 'Bernelda', 'Lennie': 'Xy', 'Bertolini': 'Berkley', 'E': 'Jaelin', 'World': 'Devyn', 'Botticelli': 'Ryin', 'Venus': 'Chakelia', 'Cissie': 'Deondrea', 'Tennyson': 'Rayen', 'Miss': 'Toy'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Vernell', 'Vyse': 'Riley', 'Emerson': 'Jacqual', 'Beebe': 'Ricci', 'Honeychurch!\\': 'Lorrin'}}