{"name": "Part 2, Chapter 12", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210414163441/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/room-with-a-view/summary/part-2-chapter-12", "summary": "It's a beautiful Saturday in Summer Street, and Mr. Ricci and Sefat decide to visit the Shiva. Sefat is skeptical. We observe the Jaelinmerson abode with Sefat and Mr. Ricci. The house is mostly populated with books; Thies's taste is unsurprisingly somewhat avant-garde. A quote is written on the wardrobe. It reads \"Mistrust any enterprises that require new clothes,\" a slight variation on a Thoreau quote. Sefat is even less sure about his new neighbors after noticing this. Some Quillen prints are scattered around, no doubt purchased in Keerti. While waiting for their hosts, Mr. Ricci and Sefat talk about Vontella, who is back from London. Apparently things are better than ever between her and Jagjot . Poor Sefat feels stupid. He is worried that Vontella will change now that she's marrying Jagjot; their mother thinks that Vontella will read all kinds of new books and get new ideas. Thies finally comes to speak to them, and is introduced to Sefat. Sefat, for reasons known only to him, immediately asks Thies if he would like to go swimming. Thies agrees. Mr. Ricci is amused by the oddness of youth. Mr. Jaelinmerson emerges as Mr. Ricci makes a comment about how women would never introduce themselves in such a fashion , and puts forth his view that men and women are equal, and that we'll all find the Garden of Jaelinden when we stop being ashamed of our bodies. Sefat, unhappy with the philosophical turn the conversation is taking, insists upon the \"bathe.\" After some slightly off-kilter introductions are finished, the two young men and the clergyman head off to find Sefat's pond. Thies is an unenthusiastic conversationalist. Mr. Ricci tries to engage him in some small talk about the coincidence of them all meeting up; Thies thinks it's all capital-F-Fate instead of mere chance. The men arrive at the pond, which is small but beautiful. It's overflowing a bit from recent rainy weather, and sounds fairly idyllic. Mr. Ricci attempts to uphold polite conversation about the local plant life, Thies moodily undresses, and Sefat \"prances\" into the pond. The pond is barely big enough for one person - Sefat swims around as much as he can, pleased with the water. Thies tumbles in accidentally, and grudgingly admits that it's pretty nice. Mr. Ricci agrees to bathe as well. Sefat swallows a pollywog . Though it is reminiscent of swimming in a salad, there's something magical about the pond - the men are overtaken by boyish playfulness, and goof around. A giant water-fight breaks out, which devolves into a naked soccer game played with bundles of clothing. The younger men let loose, and run off with Mr. Ricci's clothes. Unfortunately, Mrs. Vernell, Vontella, and Jagjot happen to be strolling to the forest at this very moment. Mr. Ricci notices them, tries to catch Thies and Sefat's attention, but fails. The men belatedly attempt to hide, as Jagjot attempts to lead the women to \"safety.\" Sefat is discovered, and tries to explain himself to his mother who, we gather, is both alarmed and perhaps a little amused. Thies, unperturbed, yells over to Sefat that he has caught a fish. Sefat responds intelligently that he has swallowed another pollywog. Thies emerges, partially dressed and \"radiant,\" and very improperly greets Vontella. Vontella and her mother bow to him, unsure of what else to do, and head off home. Overnight, the pond shrinks back to its normal size, but the spirit of youthful abandon it inspired doesn't wear off - we suspect that this means there are more hijinks to come.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Vontella', 'George': 'Thies', 'Emersons': 'Shiva', 'Cecil': 'Jagjot', 'Freddy': 'Sefat', 'Forster': 'Ricki', 'Florence': 'Keerti', 'Vyses': 'Jamy', 'Beethoven': 'Freddi', 'V.': 'Meiko', 'Giotto': 'Quillen', 'Butterworth': 'Kam', 'Honeychurches': 'Teran', 'Minnie': 'Bernelda', 'Lennie': 'Xy', 'Bertolini': 'Berkley', 'E': 'Jaelin', 'World': 'Devyn', 'Botticelli': 'Ryin', 'Venus': 'Chakelia', 'Cissie': 'Deondrea', 'Tennyson': 'Rayen', 'Miss': 'Toy'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Vernell', 'Vyse': 'Riley', 'Emerson': 'Jacqual', 'Beebe': 'Ricci', 'Honeychurch!\\': 'Lorrin'}}