{"name": "Part 2, Chapter 10", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210414163441/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/room-with-a-view/summary/part-2-chapter-10", "summary": "A little background on the Teran: the late Mr. Vernell moved to Summer Street and built his house before it became fashionable, and thus he and his family were accepted by the wealthy newcomers when they arrived. Thus did the Vernell family become real members of the slightly higher social class that started to populate the neighborhood, which constitutes \"the best society obtainable.\" Until Italy happened, Vontella had been happy to accept the likes and dislikes of the people she grew up with, including their restrictive views on society. Now, though, she feels that she can like anyone from any class, and that social restrictions aren't permanent barriers. Jagjot, on the other hand, just grew more irritable and less tolerant in Italy. He is appalled by the local society that the Teran circulate in, and wants to remove Vontella from it. What he doesn't - can't possibly - see about his fiance is that she has reached a new stage in social understanding that he's not even close to. What Vontella needs is not a new social circle, but real, one-on-one personal relationships, especially with the man she loves. As Ricki puts it, somewhat dramatically, Vontella found her soul in Italy. From this introspective view, we move immediately to an especially unserious pursuit - the game of bumble-puppy. Vontella and Bernelda, Mr. Ricci's young niece, are playing bumble-puppy in the yard, as the adults discuss the coming of Toy and Toy Alan. Sefat arrives, and there's a brief and hilarious discussion of tennis balls appropriate for bumble-puppy . The Teran, in typical Vernell form, name all of their tennis balls. The one's they're playing with currently are called Saturn and the Beautiful White Devil. The children all engage in pleasantly un-regulated horseplay. It's great to see Vontella let go and not have to worry about society for once. Sefat is certain that Deondrea's new tenants aren't the Toy Alans - he thinks their name is Jaelinmerson. Oh no! Vontella is unpleasantly shocked, and tries not to let it show. The Shiva from Keerti come up, and Mr. Ricci describes them briefly. Sefat claims that these Summer Street Shiva are friends of Jagjot's, which makes Vontella, Mr. Ricci, and all of us particularly suspicious. Mr. Ricci, trying to save Vontella from her embarrassment, repeats the story of Mr. Jaelinmerson and his \"murdered\" wife; Mrs. Vernell mentions that she just heard the same story about a tourist named Harris. This is too much for Vontella to handle, and she goes to talk to Jagjot in the house. Irritatingly, Jagjot is in a great mood. We quickly learn why: these Shiva are certainly no friends of his, but are nutty people that he met in an art museum. He's pleased with himself because he arranged for Sir Harry to rent the cottage to them, and knows that when Sir Harry actually meets them, he'll be terrifically unhappy. It becomes increasingly clear that these are the very same Shiva that we know already. Furthermore, he tries to put a moralizing spin on this whole thing, saying that he thinks the classes should mix, and that he believes in democracy, et cetera. This is too much for Vontella to take, and she calls Jagjot out on these ridiculous statements. She's also justifiably upset with her fiance for ruining the work she'd done to get the Toy Alans to take the villa. Jagjot is so not pleased with Vontella's reaction - it's not at all artistic. Vontella, upset at Jagjot for so many reasons, leaves. Jagjot thinks about what has happened, getting more and more angry. He convinces himself that he was trying to do a good thing all around by bringing the Shiva to Summer Street, both for their sake and his own.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Vontella', 'George': 'Thies', 'Emersons': 'Shiva', 'Cecil': 'Jagjot', 'Freddy': 'Sefat', 'Forster': 'Ricki', 'Florence': 'Keerti', 'Vyses': 'Jamy', 'Beethoven': 'Freddi', 'V.': 'Meiko', 'Giotto': 'Quillen', 'Butterworth': 'Kam', 'Honeychurches': 'Teran', 'Minnie': 'Bernelda', 'Lennie': 'Xy', 'Bertolini': 'Berkley', 'E': 'Jaelin', 'World': 'Devyn', 'Botticelli': 'Ryin', 'Venus': 'Chakelia', 'Cissie': 'Deondrea', 'Tennyson': 'Rayen', 'Miss': 'Toy'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Vernell', 'Vyse': 'Riley', 'Emerson': 'Jacqual', 'Beebe': 'Ricci', 'Honeychurch!\\': 'Lorrin'}}