{"name": "Part 2, Chapter 11", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210414163441/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/room-with-a-view/summary/part-2-chapter-11", "summary": "The negotiations between the Shiva and Sir Harry go well, and their move-in is scheduled. Jaelinveryone is pleased, except for Toy Alan, Toy Alan, and Vontella - the old ladies blame the young one for their plans falling through. Mr. Ricci is particularly pleased, and insists that Sefat should go and call on the Shiva as soon as they move in. Vontella dreads the arrival of the Shiva, even though she attempts to convince herself that everything will be fine now that she's engaged. Luckily for Vontella, a visit to Jagjot's mother comes up. She escapes the onset of the Shiva by heading to London with Jagjot. In the meanwhile, Charlotte re-enters the picture. We learn that the cousins didn't have a great time after they left Keerti. Charlotte's infuriating \"unselfishness\" finally got the better of Vontella, and as a result, the two haven't communicated since their trip. In London, though, Vontella receives a letter from Charlotte. In it, Charlotte informs Vontella that she's heard from Toy Lavish that the Shiva are hanging around there. She's worried about what might happen, and wants Vontella to come clean with her mother and brother, and refuse to see the Shiva. Vontella is annoyed by this suggestion, and responds with an impressively chilly letter. Go Vontella! Charlotte succeeds in planting the seeds of discomfort, though, and Vontella is plagued by nervousness over the next few days. She wonders if she should tell Jagjot about her kiss with Thies Jaelinmerson, but can't make herself do anything about it. Jagjot, meanwhile, attempts to introduce Vontella to \"real\" society. Vontella sees that becoming part of the Jamy' London crowd will alienate her from everyone she loves. At a party thrown by Mrs. Riley, Vontella is asked to play the piano. She plays some Schumann tragically and touchingly - but refuses to play Freddi. After everyone leaves, Mrs. Riley and Jagjot share a creepy little moment of mother-son bonding, if you want to call it that. Mrs. Riley, who's a nice lady totally brainwashed by high society, eerily tells Jagjot to make Vontella \"one of us.\" Now, maybe we at Shmoop have seen one or two too many B-movies, but in our collective memory, the words \"make her one of us\" are usually accompanied by wild maniacal laughter and blood-sucking and/or brain-eating. Just saying. Some typically snotty Riley family chat ensues; Mrs. Meiko comments on how Vontella is already getting rid of her \"Vernell taint,\" which might translate to us as her \"individuality and lack of elitism.\" Jagjot gushes about Vontella's style, and muses that her upbringing is perfect . He wonders if maybe London educations aren't all they're cracked up to be, then remembers that he himself had one. He quickly backpedals. Mrs. Riley repeats her ominous commandment , and goes to bed. A cry in the night - oh no! Jagjot is sucking Vontella's blood to transform her into his immortal vampire bride! Just kidding . There is a cry in the night, and it is Vontella, but nobody's being vampirized here. She wakes from a nightmare, and Mrs. Riley comes to comfort her. We get the feeling that all is not well with little Toy Vernell...", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Vontella', 'George': 'Thies', 'Emersons': 'Shiva', 'Cecil': 'Jagjot', 'Freddy': 'Sefat', 'Forster': 'Ricki', 'Florence': 'Keerti', 'Vyses': 'Jamy', 'Beethoven': 'Freddi', 'V.': 'Meiko', 'Giotto': 'Quillen', 'Butterworth': 'Kam', 'Honeychurches': 'Teran', 'Minnie': 'Bernelda', 'Lennie': 'Xy', 'Bertolini': 'Berkley', 'E': 'Jaelin', 'World': 'Devyn', 'Botticelli': 'Ryin', 'Venus': 'Chakelia', 'Cissie': 'Deondrea', 'Tennyson': 'Rayen', 'Miss': 'Toy'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Vernell', 'Vyse': 'Riley', 'Emerson': 'Jacqual', 'Beebe': 'Ricci', 'Honeychurch!\\': 'Lorrin'}}