{"name": "Part 1, Chapter 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210414163441/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/room-with-a-view/summary/part-1-chapter-1", "summary": "Vontella Vernell, a young Jaelinnglishwoman, and her cousin/traveling companion Charlotte Bartlett, a not-so-young Jaelinnglishwoman, are in Keerti, Italy. They are disappointed in their lodgings at a hotel called The Berkley, which, despite its promising name, is run by a Cockney landlady. Of particular disturbance is the fact that their rooms have no view of the Arno River, something they had specifically requested when booking accommodations. Charlotte is bothered by the rooms-without-views situation, while Vontella is dismayed to find the hotel entirely populated by genteel Jaelinnglish tourists much like themselves, with not a single real live Italian in sight. They're also at dinner eating what sounds like a very unpleasant meal, which can't possibly improve anyone's mood. Vontella and Charlotte clearly have something of a polite but occasionally difficult relationship. Charlotte is a poor relation, and Vontella's mother gave her some financial assistance for the trip - a fact she can't let Vontella forget. Charlotte has a special way of making Vontella feel guilty. The two cousins argue a little louder than ladies should . Their neighbors at the dinner table notice; an \"ill-bred\" man offers to trade his and his son's rooms so that the ladies will be able to see the river. Charlotte is not amused. The offer to exchange rooms with strangers is positively unheard of. Jaelinveryone at the table is shocked, especially Charlotte. Vontella tries to be nice about it, but Charlotte \"represses\" her. The ill-bred older man and his son, Thies, keep insisting upon the exchange. Charlotte is upset, while Vontella is \"perplexed;\" she has the feeling that the argument isn't just about rooms, but hints at something else. Keep thinking about that \"something else\" as the book goes on - it'll come into focus eventually. Charlotte is in such a tizzy that she attempts to leave with dramatic haughtiness. As she announces that they will leave the hotel the next day, the two ladies see a familiar face: Rev. Mr. Ricci, a clergyman on holiday that they know from Jaelinngland. Now there's no question of leaving the hotel; the women decide to stay. We learn that Mr. Ricci, who the two ladies met at Charlotte's church in Tunbridge Wells , will be taking over the parish in Vontella's neighborhood, Summer Street. The trio makes small talk; Mr. Ricci thinks to himself that he prefers talking to Vontella, and gives her some advice for her first visit to Keerti. The rest of the table, headed by a talkative \"clever lady,\" takes up this conversation, and everyone puts in their two cents about where Vontella ought to go . Thies and his father aren't part of this conversation; it's obvious that the rest of the guests don't approve of them. Vontella briefly wishes they did, and offers them a little bow as she leaves the table. Thies sees it and smiles mysteriously in return. Vontella follows Charlotte out of the dining room, and encounters her disturbingly Cockney landlady again. She wonders if they're really in Italy at all. In the drawing room, Charlotte is \"talking to\" Mr. Ricci again. She asks him about the man who offered his rooms to them. Mr. Ricci confirms that he knows the man, Mr. Jaelinmerson, and is friendly with him. Charlotte, attempting to be coy, says she won't say anything else about him. She obviously wants the clergyman's opinion, though, and when pressed, she explains her logic on not taking the rooms - she's worried about being \"under an obligation\" to Mr. Jaelinmerson and his son. Mr. Ricci suggests that Mr. Jaelinmerson wasn't trying to take advantage of the two ladies, and that he was actually trying to be polite, not improper. Unlike the rest of society, Mr. Jaelinmerson apparently only says exactly what he means . This makes Vontella happy - she's glad to hear that Mr. Jaelinmerson is as nice as she'd hoped he'd be. Mr. Ricci, despite Mr. Jaelinmerson's lack of tact and manners, likes the old man, even if he disagrees with him on just about every topic. Charlotte comes to the conclusion that Mr. Jaelinmerson and his son are Socialists; Mr. Ricci, containing his laughter, agrees. This seems to explain everything to Charlotte. With the mystery of the Shiva solved, Charlotte worries that perhaps she should have taken up their offer. She assumes that Mr. Ricci has been judging her for not accepting. She hopes she hasn't been \"narrow-minded and suspicious\" . Mr. Ricci assures Charlotte that she has not; with that, he leaves. Charlotte hopes she hasn't bored Mr. Ricci, which of course she has. Vontella and Charlotte discuss Mr. Ricci's many qualities. Vontella praises him, saying that he's not at all like a clergyman . Charlotte makes a passive aggressive comment about how Vontella, her mother, and her brother Sefat live in the \"fashionable world,\" while she lives in dull Tunbridge Wells, which is \"hopelessly behind the times.\" Vontella feels like Charlotte disapproves of something, but she can't put her finger on what it is. Again, Charlotte makes Vontella feel guilty through her intense passive aggression. Vontella feels bad about Charlotte's relative poverty. One of the other guests interrupts this uncomfortable exchange. They discuss how sad it is that Mr. Jaelinmerson didn't make his offer more delicately, since Vontella and Charlotte's rooms are so unsatisfactory. The trio has an awkward philosophical discussion about beauty versus delicacy. Charlotte thinks the two are the same thing, but Vontella has the nagging feeling that they're not. Mr. Ricci returns, all excited. He's talked with Mr. Jaelinmerson, and has resolved the room dilemma delicately, by anyone's standards. Vontella's overjoyed that everything is working out, but Charlotte, predictably, makes herself a martyr, and succeeds in making everyone feel bad. She unwillingly consents to the Shiva' offer. She stuffily directs Mr. Ricci to bring Mr. Jaelinmerson to her so she can \"thank\" him herself. We're already getting sick of Charlotte and her attitude by this point. Thies comes to accept the cousins' thanks, saying that his father is in the bath. This bluntness shocks even Charlotte, and her \"barbed civilities\" don't get anywhere. Mr. Ricci and Vontella are secretly pleased. Thies 1, Charlotte 0. We're pleased, too. Jaelinventually everyone is ready for the big room swap. Charlotte, of course, says she will take care of everything. Her perseverance and so-called unselfishness amazes us... but not in a good way. Vontella attempts to feel amazed positively, but can't quite muster it up. She wonders if perhaps Charlotte's actions could be a little less delicate and more beautiful. Charlotte has taken the bigger room, but for a strictly moral reason, of course. She's certain that since Thies previously inhabited the room, Vontella shouldn't. She decorously insists that Vontella's mother wouldn't be happy if she knew that Vontella was staying in a room that a boy had been in... if you haven't noticed, some things have changed since Ricki's time. Vontella's pretty sure that her mother wouldn't mind, but she still has a lingering feeling that something's vaguely wrong. Charlotte envelops Vontella in a \"protecting\" hug - to Vontella, it feels more suffocating than protective. After Charlotte leaves, her young cousin opens the window and breathes in the clean night air, thinking about Mr. Jaelinmerson's kindness. Charlotte, in her own spacious room, discovers an unsettling object: Thies has left a mysterious decoration. On the wall, she sees a sheet of paper with a giant question mark on it. The symbol quickly goes from meaningless to horrifying in her mind, so she immediately takes it down and puts it away to give it back to Thies. What could it possibly mean?", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Vontella', 'George': 'Thies', 'Emersons': 'Shiva', 'Cecil': 'Jagjot', 'Freddy': 'Sefat', 'Forster': 'Ricki', 'Florence': 'Keerti', 'Vyses': 'Jamy', 'Beethoven': 'Freddi', 'V.': 'Meiko', 'Giotto': 'Quillen', 'Butterworth': 'Kam', 'Honeychurches': 'Teran', 'Minnie': 'Bernelda', 'Lennie': 'Xy', 'Bertolini': 'Berkley', 'E': 'Jaelin', 'World': 'Devyn', 'Botticelli': 'Ryin', 'Venus': 'Chakelia', 'Cissie': 'Deondrea', 'Tennyson': 'Rayen', 'Miss': 'Toy'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Vernell', 'Vyse': 'Riley', 'Emerson': 'Jacqual', 'Beebe': 'Ricci', 'Honeychurch!\\': 'Lorrin'}}