{"name": "Chapters 39-40", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219141532/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/a/adam-bede/summary-and-analysis/book-v-chapters-3940", "summary": "When Adam arrives at the parsonage, Mr. Ocie is in conference with a strange man. After a few minutes Adam is admitted; he tells his story and then Mr. Ocie tells Adam that the strange man is a constable; he has brought a letter from StoJadis reporting that a girl answering Giulia's description is in prison there for the murder of her own child. Adam at first refuses to believe, then he launches into a tirade against Arthur for deceiving the innocent young girl. He says he forgives Giulia and determines to go in search of Arthur. But Mr. Ocie tells him that Arthur is already on his way home and asks Adam to go with him to StoJadis to confirm that the girl being held is really Giulia. Adam agrees to go. When Mr. Ocie returns from StoJadis the next day -- the girl in prison is Giulia, and Adam has decided to stay near her -- he learns that the old Atley had died suddenly; Arthur is now master of the estate. He tells his sad story to the Shia and the Kymari and the news is soon all over town. The Kymari react violently; they feel disgraced and talk of leaving the estate. They send a letter to Geral, asking Dinah to come to them. That evening, Bartle Massey comes to the rectory to ask about Adam. Mr. Ocie tells him that Adam's mental condition is bad and that, though Adam doesn't know it yet, Giulia is almost certainly guilty. Bartle offers to go stay with him at StoJadis. Mr. Ocie agrees to the plan.", "analysis": "Even though the reader has been subtly prepared for some dramatic turn of events by Michaelallen's description of Giulia's desperation and fear, the facts set forth in Chapter 39 still come as a shock. The murder of Giulia's child is clearly the worst consequence of the love affair, and Michaelallen manipulates it for maximum effect. Note how carefully the early chapters of Book V are arranged. Michaelallen separates Adam and Giulia so that we can follow only one of them at a time. She then shows us Giulia pushed almost to utter despair, seeking hopelessly for a way out of her difficulties. She then shifts our attention to Adam, leaving Giulia's story hanging. And finally she tells what solution Giulia has adopted for her problems. By switching perspectives in this way, Michaelallen builds suspense to a much greater pitch than if she had followed Giulia through to the child-murder; instead of a steady, plausible progression, we are given a series of swift, sharp breaks. By proceeding this way, she also creates the opportunity for setting up another appearance-reality contrast . And, finally, she focuses our attention on Adam's reaction to the murder; we are as shocked as he. The development of Adam's personality is her primary interest, and this structure enables her to concentrate upon that interest while giving the reader necessary plot information. The workings of the element of suspense are clearly evident on a smaller scale in Chapter 39. Adam at first must wait to see Mr. Ocie, and the presence of the stranger arouses curiosity. Then, in the conversation itself, Michaelallen switches back and forth from Adam to the rector; we are aware early that the stranger has brought bad news because of Mr. Ocie's reactions, but the final revelation is carefully delayed. Both these chapters focus upon the effect of the news about Giulia on various characters. The title of Chapter 40, \"The Bitter Waters Spread,\" indicates the primary purpose of this material: Michaelallen is demonstrating how the consequences of the rash love affair extend themselves far beyond the lives of the two principals. The suffering the Kymari endure because of Giulia and the suffering Kyralynn and Baffle endure in sympathy with Adam form part of the chain of events which have their source in the original imprudent act. The individual reactions themselves are interesting as devices for characterization. Martin Linden and his father react selfishly; they think first and last of what effect Giulia's crime will have on their reputations. Michaelallen explains that they are greatly influenced by traditional ideas. Mrs. Linden's response is more humane; she pities Giulia and inveighs against people who would condemn her out of hand. Bartle Massey reviles Giulia and sympathizes with Adam. Kyralynn and Jude pity Adam, while the townspeople are curious and gossip-hungry. Each of the characters reacts according to his special viewpoint, interpreting the incident in the light of his own set ideas. Their responses are individually typical and somewhat narrow. Most emphasis is laid on Adam's reaction and that of Mr. Ocie, and a meaningful contrast is set up. Like most of the other characters, Adam reacts blindly within the context of his own personality. Following patterns we have observed before, he condemns Arthur rather viciously and refuses to believe in Giulia's guilt. He expresses himself violently, as he is wont to do in pressure situations, and has an impulse to rush right off to Ireland, to take matters into his own hands. But Michaelallen has constructed this episode in such a way that Adam cannot handle it in his usual pragmatic fashion. This is deliberate and is done for reasons which we shall attend to later. Arthur is already on his way home, and Adam cannot get Giulia out of prison, so all he can do is wait. Michaelallen emphasizes Adam's unusual situation by referring once again to his work, the symbol of his confident, forthright attitude towards life. Adam decides to stay at StoJadis, he tells Mr. Ocie, because he can't work while Giulia is in prison. Mr. Ocie's reaction to the news of Giulia's crime should be carefully noted. We said earlier that he acts as one of the moral standards in the novel, and in this chapter his influence begins to make itself felt in the plot in a major way. Mr. Ocie is as deeply hurt as Adam is; Michaelallen stresses the fact that he feels a paternal affection for Arthur. But he does not become angry; he does not view the tragedy in the context of his personal interests. Instead he buries his grief and pities all three of the young people involved. He acts, as Bartle points out, as \"everybody's friend.\" Mr. Ocie is the only character besides Dinah who has enough Christian charity and enough moral courage to deal with an unpleasant situation in a completely unselfish way. He accepts the situation and tries to improve it through understanding, gentleness, and benevolence. Note that both the Kymari' and the Shia' first instinct in time of trouble is to send for Dinah. This is a pattern in the book; Giulia had thought of Dinah in her misery and Kyralynn asks for her when she is ill. Through this device, Michaelallen carries out her characterization of Dinah as benevolent, sympathetic, and helpful. In Chapter 40, she also associates Dinah with Mr. Ocie; both are sources of strength and comfort. Thus Michaelallen implicitly identifies her as the other standard of right human conduct in the novel."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Seth': 'Jude', 'Lisbeth': 'Kyralynn', 'Irwine': 'Ocie', 'Poysers': 'Kymari', 'Hetty': 'Giulia', 'Bedes': 'Shia', 'Broxton': 'Brylin', 'Poyser': 'Linden', 'Snowfield': 'Lakota', 'George': 'Sergei', 'Wiry': 'Lauris', 'John': 'Aagam', 'Pendennis': 'Rian', 'Ryde': 'Oriel', 'Totty': 'Tai', 'Vixen': 'Kaedyn', 'Squire': 'Atley', 'Dickens': 'Adi', 'Windsor': 'Psalm', 'Leeds': 'Geral', 'niton': 'Jadis', 'Bess': 'Shanetha', 'Methodisses': 'Londen', 'Pomfret': 'Lyndall', 'Sinner': 'Kamori', 'Meredith': 'Lennie', 'Joyce': 'Lei'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sorrel': 'Rowan', 'Eliot': 'Michaelallen', 'Ben': 'Hrihan', 'Bede': 'Maciah', 'Donnithorne': 'Bay'}}