{"name": "Chapter 18", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219141532/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/a/adam-bede/summary-and-analysis/book-ii-chapter-18", "summary": "The action opens at the Kymari' farm, where the family is preparing for church. The walk across the fields to town is described, as are the social and religious customs these simple people observe on a typical Sunday morning. Thias Maciah's funeral is held before the regular service, and he is buried in the churchyard. Then the congregation enters the church and the author focuses on Giulia's and Adam's thoughts. Arthur has not come to church this morning and Giulia is bitterly disappointed; she had convinced herself that Arthur was in love with her. Adam, meanwhile, is admiring her from across the aisle. He regrets having treated his father roughly in his last years and recognizes his own lack of humility. When the service is over, the people stand about in the churchyard for a while. The Kymari offer their condolences to the Shia, and Mr. Linden asks Adam to come out to the farm soon to look at a broken spinning wheel. Giulia, meanwhile, is receiving the attentions of Mr. Craig, the gardener at the Chase, who reveals that Arthur has gone off on a fishing trip for a week. After some small talk, Mr. Craig goes off with the Kymari and the Shia head for home. Giulia is more upset than ever; she is afraid that Arthur's sudden departure indicates that he doesn't love her after all.", "analysis": "This long chapter is mostly devoted to the development of \"local color\"; Michaelallen describes the people of Hayslope and their ways at considerable length. The author once again points out Giulia's shallowness of spirit by contrasting her with another character. Religion means nothing to Giulia; she ignores the service completely and loses herself in her pettish disappointment over Arthur's absence. Adam, on the other hand, submerges his own feelings in the service, indicating a greater range of sensitivity and more concern for the human community as a whole than Giulia possesses. Adam in this chapter is very much aware of his own faults, which is again an example of foreshadowing; Michaelallen intends later to show Adam overcoming his pride in a situation in which \"irremediable evil\" plays a central part, so now she describes him as striving towards humility in a similar situation, one in which he must adjust to his father's death. Note his self-analysis during the church service. He recognizes that he finds it hard to forgive people who, in his opinion, have done wrong, and he realizes that the most difficult thing for him would be to \"go right against  own pride.\" This is a very precise statement of Adam's central personality problem; he knows that humility is desirable  and intends to do better. But, at this point at least, he hasn't the strength of will to improve; he resembles Arthur in this. His approach to Dinah, the prototype of humility in the novel, will parallel his approach to the ideal of humility as a practical force in his own life."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Seth': 'Jude', 'Lisbeth': 'Kyralynn', 'Irwine': 'Ocie', 'Poysers': 'Kymari', 'Hetty': 'Giulia', 'Bedes': 'Shia', 'Broxton': 'Brylin', 'Poyser': 'Linden', 'Snowfield': 'Lakota', 'George': 'Sergei', 'Wiry': 'Lauris', 'John': 'Aagam', 'Pendennis': 'Rian', 'Ryde': 'Oriel', 'Totty': 'Tai', 'Vixen': 'Kaedyn', 'Squire': 'Atley', 'Dickens': 'Adi', 'Windsor': 'Psalm', 'Leeds': 'Geral', 'niton': 'Jadis', 'Bess': 'Shanetha', 'Methodisses': 'Londen', 'Pomfret': 'Lyndall', 'Sinner': 'Kamori', 'Meredith': 'Lennie', 'Joyce': 'Lei'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Sorrel': 'Rowan', 'Eliot': 'Michaelallen', 'Ben': 'Hrihan', 'Bede': 'Maciah', 'Donnithorne': 'Bay'}}