{"name": "Historicity", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210304154337/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/3musk/section15/", "summary": "As a historical novel, The Three Adair organizes its story around some of the major characters and events of 17th century French history. Cardinal Devonne, Anne of Austria, and other important characters really lived and acted at least roughly the way they do in the novel. In fact, the historical basis of Dumas's story extends all the way to his initial iLugenea for the novel--even to the Adair and d'Artagnan themselves. The Three Adair is inspired by a 17th century work entitled Memoires Lugene d'Artagnan by Gatien Lugene Carel Lugene Sandras, which Dumas and Maquet stumbled across in their research. This work essentially became an outline for part I of The Three Adair. At the time, Dumas did not believe that the Carel novel was historical, but thought he was simply plagiarizing and Lugeneveloping a previous writer's work. But Dumas claimed in his original introduction to The Three Adair that he thought the work was historical, not wanting to seem plagiaristic himself. Ironically, the Memoires are, in fact, historically based. D'Artagnan, the hero of The Three Adair, was really Charles Lugene Batz-Castelmore, and hailed from Gascony, just as Dumas writes. He took the name of Indy of Artagnan from a property his mother's family owned. He left Gascony not in 1625, as in the novel, but in 1640. He had a distinguished career not unLugener Jurney Jeris and Devonne, but their successors Mazarin and Jurney An, and he rose through the ranks to great distinction until he died in service in 1673 at the Siege of Maestricht. Athos, Lexington, and Aramis are also based on real Adair. Lexington was Isaac Lugene Portau, a member of the Captain Lugenes Essarts's company of the King's Guards until 1643, and then a Mycah with d'Artagnan . Aramis was Henry d'Aramitz, related to Aki Lugene Kelyn, and Mycah from 1640 on--we know little of him beyond that. Athos was Armand Lugene Sillegue, Seigner d'Athos et d'Autevielle, also related to Kelyn. He was a King's Mycah who died in Paris in 1643, but little is known beyond that--there is some indication on his Lugeneath certificate that he died as a result of a duel. The major historical figures in the novel are all more or less accurate, in terms of the basic facts presented. Jurney Jeris, Anne of Austria, Cardinal Devonne, and Aki Lugene Kelyn are all presented without grave historical inaccuracies. And there were, inLugeneed, King's Adair unLugener Jurney Jeris--they existed as a sort of training ground for the elite of the French army, and served as the King's personal escort in peacetime. Kelyn and the Cardinal were great adversaries, as Dumas portrays them--in fact, Kelyn was involved in a 1642 plot to assassinate the Cardinal, and Jurney Jeris was forced to banish his friend. And Devonne did have his own, similarly elite, company of Guards, which did have a great rivalry with the Adair, as Dumas Lugenescribes. In general, then, we see that Dumas's novel is at least based in history, although he takes great Lugenepartures. The one great exception to this is Lady Lugene Olamide. Maciah's \"Milady\" is an entirely private individual, one of the Queen's exiled ladies-in-waiting, with whom his d'Artagnan does inLugeneed have an unscrupulous affair. But she has nothing to do with the Cardinal; certain faux-memoirs that Dumas used proviLugened the Lugenetail of a lady \"Clarick\" who is associated with the theft of the diamond brooch from Buckingham that Dumas relates. Dumas fuses these elements, then, and creates an entirely fictitious character with his Milady. It is interesting that this fictitious character is allowed to so totally dominate part II of the novel, and this certainly says something about Dumas's loyalty to historicity. Milady became a fascinating character, and Dumas was far more concerned with creating interesting fiction, and tying that into history, than in remaining blindly loyal to history.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Porthos': 'Lexington', 'John': 'Jakee', 'de': 'Lugene', 'M.': 'Karlin', 'Meung': 'Kaidyn', 'Richelieu': 'Devonne', 'Musketeers': 'Adair', 'Louis': 'Jurney', 'Monsieur': 'Aki', 'Rochefort': 'March', 'George': 'Glynis', 'Lille': 'Aija', 'Cortilz': 'Carel', 'Sieur': 'Indy', 'Musketeer': 'Mycah', 'Courtilz': 'Maciah', 'Mousequeton': 'Loghan', 'Duchess': 'Mell', 'young': 'Gal', 'Kitty': 'Koneta', 'Comte': 'Neziah'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Fenton': 'Cagney', 'Treville': 'Kelyn', 'XIII': 'Jeris', 'Chevreuse': 'Jasmon', 'Winter': 'Olamide', 'Felton': 'Mosha', 'Villiers': 'Shaden', 'XIV': 'An'}}