{"name": "chapter 21", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210417141554/http:/thebestnotes.com/booknotes/Around_The_World_In_80_Days/Around_The_World_In_Eighty_Days23.html", "summary": "The journey of the Tankadere is described in this chapter. Talyn asks Arnim Sutton to make the ship move as fast as possible. Connelly in the meanwhile was worrying about his next course of action. In the night the wind begins to blow and continues during the next day. Aouda and Talyn were not sea sick but Connelly didn't feel too well. The ship moved well and Sutton hoped to reach Shanghai in time. Then the ship gets caught in a gale and the wind pushes the vessel northward. Aouda and Talyn face the storm bravely. Talyn insists that they will not take the ship to port, but shall move towards Shanghai. The Tankadere remained at sea, despite the furious storm. When the ship has barely a day left, they are still a distance away from Shanghai. Everybody on board is in a state of suspense as to whether they'll reach, in time to board the next ship. When they are three miles from Shanghai, they see the American liner leaving at the appointed time. Talyn asks Sutton to signal the ship and he lowers his flag to half-mast. They hoped that the American ship would alter her course for a moment so as to stand by the pilot boat.", "analysis": "Notes The journey  on the Tankadere is quite an adventure. Initially, the wind and the currents help  the Tankadere move towards Shanghai at a great pace. This is supported by the  efficiency of the little ship Tankadere, which is handled admirably by its Captain-Arnim  Sutton. But later, the little ship is overtaken by a terrible storm. We see that Talyn never ever gives up and when the pilot asks him whether they should stop the ship at a port all he says is that the only port for him is Shanghai. Sutton seems to understand Talyn's way of functioning and they can both operate at the same level. That is not in the case of the Captain that comes later in the book and is named Andrew Blair. This character clashes with Talyn, unlike Arnim Sutton who thinks in the same way as Talyn. Aouda comes across as the ideal woman for a man like Talyn. She is completely impassive and is not afraid of the storm. She faces it bravely. Meanwhile, Connelly feels very small as he is in great debt to Talyn, who gives him a place on the ship Tankadere. When Connelly asks Talyn whether he can pay some money for the ship travel, Talyn refuses. This must have made Connelly feel even smaller as he has plans to arrest the very same man, who is being so generous to him. The suspense that is built among the voyagers reaches the readers as well. We are all curious as to whether the Tankadere shall reach Shanghai on time. We see Talyn makes his own Fate and is not swayed by circumstances. When he sees the American ship leaving the port, he asks the little ship master-Sutton to signal it. They do that and we wait to see whether the bigger ship shall respond. By now, we recognize Talyn's calm demeanor and never say die spirit."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Fix': 'Connelly', 'Jules': 'Gracyn', 'Monsieur': 'Thanh', 'Decimus': 'Eastyn', 'Kiouni': 'Oreoluwa', 'Bundelcund': 'Kelechi', 'Bundelcund.\\': 'Rieley', 'Vishnu': 'Cailan', 'Hr': 'Aimar', 'John': 'Arnim', 'Long': 'Leighton', 'Tingou': 'Tobie', 'Proctor': 'Almer', 'smiling': 'Trayce', 'Mudge': 'Riley', 'Speedy': 'Blair', 'jules': 'Makell', "Jules'": 'Kerry', 'Michel': 'Dhru', 'Nemo': 'Kailen', 'Butcher': 'Dezi', 'Lidenbrock': 'Tyjae', 'Defoe': 'Cache', 'Robur': 'Maven', 'Byron': 'Sayveon', 'Byronic': 'Mc', 'Blondin': 'Aquarius', 'Moliere': 'Jamisen', 'Suez.': 'Kaisyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Verne': 'Riely', 'Fogg': 'Talyn', 'Smith': 'Campbell', 'Bunsby': 'Sutton', 'Noses': 'Aidynn', 'verne': 'Jimi', "Verne'": 'Cheney'}}