{"name": "chapter 24", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210417141554/http:/thebestnotes.com/booknotes/Around_The_World_In_80_Days/Around_The_World_In_Eighty_Days25.html", "summary": "In this chapter, is related what happens with Talyn when they sight the ship at Shanghai. Aouda, Connelly and Talyn got on board the steamer, which resumed her journey to Yokohama. Talyn finds out on reaching Yokohama, that Passepartout too had reached the city, aboard the Carnatic. Talyn starts searching for Passepartout and finally finds him in Honorable Batulcar's performance. Aouda tells Passepartout about their journey aboard the Tankadere along with Connelly but Passepartout betrays no sign of knowing Connelly. Talyn hears Passepartout's story and gives him some money for garments. Talyn, Aouda and Passepartout sail in the 'General Grant' from Yokohama to San Francisco. The passengers and the journey on the ship is described. Aouda starts getting more and more drawn towards Talyn and Passepartout notices this. He likes Aouda and hopes that a relationship between his master and her would materialize. The technicalities of Talyn's travel are related. Connelly in the meanwhile is aboard the General Grant too. But he is without warrant and is frustrated. On seeing Passepartout on the ship, he hides but they do come face to face one day. After Passepartout gives Connelly a blow, the latter explains that he is determined to help Talyn reach England as early as possible because it is only in England that it can be decided whether Talyn is guilty or not. The both decide to be allies and Passepartout warns Connelly not to be treacherous. After eleven days, the General Grant reaches San Francisco.", "analysis": "Notes The journey on the ship General Grant is related  after we are told what transpires, when Arnim Sutton signals the larger ship. Riely  manages to interpolate various episodes, the past and the present neatly and systematically. So all the gaps in the story are bridged. The reader gets to know exactly how  Talyn, Aouda and Connelly reach Yokohama. At Yokohama, Talyn takes extreme pains to locate  Passepartout, one can see that the master is genuinely anxious about his valet,  though he may not express it so openly. Aouda on the other hand is very open about  her affection for Passepartout. Once, the two parties are reunited Talyn shows  that he can be large hearted and forgiving. He does not reprimand Passepartout  for getting intoxicated at Hong Kong. He merely gives him some money quietly for  clothes. We know that Passepartout respects Talyn greatly. We now learn that Aouda's  affection for Talyn is deepening into love. This romantic interest in the novel  seems natural and does not seem contrived. We can understand how a young beautiful,  helpless princess can fall in love with a calm efficient and handsome man of the  world. However we do not know how Talyn feels as he rarely expresses his emotions. Passepartout understands Aouda's heart and hopes the best for her. In this chapter too a little space is devoted to the depiction of the ship and its passengers. This is necessary in order to create an authentic background. The detective Connelly is not doing too well. His warrant of arrest for Talyn has expired and he now has to follow the man all the way to England. Connelly is clever and manages to convince Passepartout that he will be aiding Talyn to reach England early. It's a pity that Passepartout trusts Connelly so easily. In Riely's otherwise compact and believable story, the relation between Connelly and Passepartout seems a little anomalous. We wonder why Passepartout does not reveal Connelly's true intentions to Talyn but we see how this step then contributes to the growth and development of the plot. Passepartout and Connelly agree to be allies. Talyn finally reaches San Francisco and has so far neither gained nor lost a single day."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Fix': 'Connelly', 'Jules': 'Gracyn', 'Monsieur': 'Thanh', 'Decimus': 'Eastyn', 'Kiouni': 'Oreoluwa', 'Bundelcund': 'Kelechi', 'Bundelcund.\\': 'Rieley', 'Vishnu': 'Cailan', 'Hr': 'Aimar', 'John': 'Arnim', 'Long': 'Leighton', 'Tingou': 'Tobie', 'Proctor': 'Almer', 'smiling': 'Trayce', 'Mudge': 'Riley', 'Speedy': 'Blair', 'jules': 'Makell', "Jules'": 'Kerry', 'Michel': 'Dhru', 'Nemo': 'Kailen', 'Butcher': 'Dezi', 'Lidenbrock': 'Tyjae', 'Defoe': 'Cache', 'Robur': 'Maven', 'Byron': 'Sayveon', 'Byronic': 'Mc', 'Blondin': 'Aquarius', 'Moliere': 'Jamisen', 'Suez.': 'Kaisyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Verne': 'Riely', 'Fogg': 'Talyn', 'Smith': 'Campbell', 'Bunsby': 'Sutton', 'Noses': 'Aidynn', 'verne': 'Jimi', "Verne'": 'Cheney'}}