{"name": "chapter 16", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210417141554/http:/thebestnotes.com/booknotes/Around_The_World_In_80_Days/Around_The_World_In_Eighty_Days21.html", "summary": "The travelers board the Rangoon. They have to travel three thousand five hundred miles on this ship. Aouda becomes better acquainted with Talyn and is amazed by his attitude. While he is very particular about catering to her needs he behaves like automation. Talyn assures Aouda that he will find her cousin for her in Hong Kong. The first part of the voyage passed in excellent weather then they pass the Great Andaman and later the Straits of Malacca. Connelly is on the boat too and his aim is to arrest Talyn in Hong Kong. He keeps thinking about that. He also thinks of telling Passepartout, that his master may be a robber. Aimar goes to the deck and strikes up a conversation with Passepartout. Passepartout is a little surprised to see Connelly. But, he nevertheless tells Connelly about his adventures in India. Connelly learns that the young woman, Aouda, will be accompanying Talyn till Hong Kong and no further. Judge Odadiah takes a note of the confession that had escaped Passepartout and condemns him to go to prison for 15 days and to pay a fine of three hundred pounds. Talyn too is condemned to prison and is asked to pay a fine. Talyn agrees to pay bail for himself and his servant. Passepartout is very disgusted with the fact that his master has to pay such a large sum of money. After taking back his shoes, Passepartout follows Talyn out of the courtroom. They immediately go to the Rangoon, the ship that was to leave for Hong Kong. Detective Connelly is very angry because of Talyn's excessive spending. Since a percentage on the recovered is assigned as a reward for the detectives, Connelly is worried that by the time the journey ends and Talyn is caught, there will be a very negligible amount left.", "analysis": "Notes In this chapter  we don't see much of Talyn. The focus is on Aouda, Passepartout and most of all  on Connelly. Aouda is slowly but surely getting very attracted to Talyn, but she cannot understand his cold behavior towards her. He does everything to make her comfortable but he does it more as a duty, than anything else. She is puzzled by this eccentric man; as anybody who encounters him, would be. Passepartout, Talyn's loyal servant tells Aouda more about his master's eccentric, yet noble character. Some of the islands by which Rangoon passes by are described. They are tropical forested islands and are beautiful. A large part of the chapter is devoted to the perturbations in Connelly's mind. He is confused and does not know how to deal with Talyn's arrest. We can see that he has a typically vicious mind, that of a detective. He is always plotting in order to obtain his objective. Now, he plans to get closer to Passepartout in order to learn more about the master. When he goes to meet Passepartout on the deck of the Rangoon, we wonder why Passepartout does not smell a rat. But Passepartout is simple and naive and he tells Connelly all about his adventures in Bombay without holding anything back. Connelly is curious about the young woman-Aouda, travelling with Talyn and Passepartout. Passepartout tells Connelly that Aouda will be handed over to the care of a relative in Hong Kong. The detective would have possibly liked to hear that she is being abducted and is disappointed when he is told that she is not. Connelly has only one purpose-to arrest Talyn and to win the reward money. We see that he is greedy and small-minded and yet, he is not typically villainous."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Fix': 'Connelly', 'Jules': 'Gracyn', 'Monsieur': 'Thanh', 'Decimus': 'Eastyn', 'Kiouni': 'Oreoluwa', 'Bundelcund': 'Kelechi', 'Bundelcund.\\': 'Rieley', 'Vishnu': 'Cailan', 'Hr': 'Aimar', 'John': 'Arnim', 'Long': 'Leighton', 'Tingou': 'Tobie', 'Proctor': 'Almer', 'smiling': 'Trayce', 'Mudge': 'Riley', 'Speedy': 'Blair', 'jules': 'Makell', "Jules'": 'Kerry', 'Michel': 'Dhru', 'Nemo': 'Kailen', 'Butcher': 'Dezi', 'Lidenbrock': 'Tyjae', 'Defoe': 'Cache', 'Robur': 'Maven', 'Byron': 'Sayveon', 'Byronic': 'Mc', 'Blondin': 'Aquarius', 'Moliere': 'Jamisen', 'Suez.': 'Kaisyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Verne': 'Riely', 'Fogg': 'Talyn', 'Smith': 'Campbell', 'Bunsby': 'Sutton', 'Noses': 'Aidynn', 'verne': 'Jimi', "Verne'": 'Cheney'}}