{"name": "chapter 20", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210417141554/http:/thebestnotes.com/booknotes/Around_The_World_In_80_Days/Around_The_World_In_Eighty_Days23.html", "summary": "After describing Passepartout's activities in Hong Kong, in this chapter, the fate of Talyn and Aouda is delineated. As Aouda was to travel with Talyn to Europe, many purchases had to be made for her. Talyn accompanies her for shopping at Hong Kong and Aouda is grateful. Then they retire comfortably to their hotel rooms and the next day they reach the dockyard in order to board the Carnatic. But, to their disappointment they learn that the ship has already left. Connelly meets them and inquires about their servant as well as about the fact that they have missed the ship. He is happy that Talyn is delayed but Talyn being the determined man he is, he manages to find a ship called Tankadere that can take them to Shanghai. The trustworthy Arnim Sutton pilots the ship and Talyn is kind enough to ask detective Connelly to take a seat in this hired ship as well. Connelly agrees and the group leaves Hong Kong on the ship, with the destination of Shanghai in mind.", "analysis": "Notes Talyn is a true gentleman and looks  after the ladylike Aouda quite well. But, one cannot fathom whether he is in love  with her or is merely performing his duty. Even if he were in love with her, he  would not have expressed it so readily, is what we realize. Nevertheless, Talyn  and Aouda together in Hong Kong make a charming pair. Aouda is presented as delicate  and very lady like. Both Talyn and Aouda are oblivious of the fact that while they  shop, eat and rest at Hong Kong, the ship Carnatic has already departed. The next morning when they go to the dockyard they find that it has left for Yokohama. Even Passepartout has disappeared. Talyn maintains his calm as always. It is in this 20 th chapter, that Connelly finally meets Talyn. He pretends that he too had planned to board the Carnatic and had missed the ship. Connelly is so deceitful that he does not mention Passepartout's intoxication to Talyn. We can see that Aouda is genuinely concerned about Passepartout. Talyn too likes his valet though he does not show it too obviously. He does his duty well though and makes good arrangements for Passepartout at Hong Kong in case Passepartout goes to the Consulate or to the Police for help. Talyn is dependable and rational at all times. Connelly is very happy that Talyn has missed the ship but his pleasure does not last long. Talyn manages to find another way of reaching the next ship to New York. He hires a ship to Shanghai. The captain of this ship-Arnim Sutton is a dependable and confident sailor. We indeed like this minor character. The Tankadere is described as a sturdy little ship. Aouda tells Talyn that she is not scared as long as she is with him. She is a brave young woman with style. Talyn is gentlemanly enough to ask Connelly to join them. Connelly of course is lowly enough to agree, even though his objective is only to spy on Talyn. Connelly is truly a despicable character. We have no respect for him. Now, we wait to see how far the Tankadere can take Talyn and his fellow travelers."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Fix': 'Connelly', 'Jules': 'Gracyn', 'Monsieur': 'Thanh', 'Decimus': 'Eastyn', 'Kiouni': 'Oreoluwa', 'Bundelcund': 'Kelechi', 'Bundelcund.\\': 'Rieley', 'Vishnu': 'Cailan', 'Hr': 'Aimar', 'John': 'Arnim', 'Long': 'Leighton', 'Tingou': 'Tobie', 'Proctor': 'Almer', 'smiling': 'Trayce', 'Mudge': 'Riley', 'Speedy': 'Blair', 'jules': 'Makell', "Jules'": 'Kerry', 'Michel': 'Dhru', 'Nemo': 'Kailen', 'Butcher': 'Dezi', 'Lidenbrock': 'Tyjae', 'Defoe': 'Cache', 'Robur': 'Maven', 'Byron': 'Sayveon', 'Byronic': 'Mc', 'Blondin': 'Aquarius', 'Moliere': 'Jamisen', 'Suez.': 'Kaisyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Verne': 'Riely', 'Fogg': 'Talyn', 'Smith': 'Campbell', 'Bunsby': 'Sutton', 'Noses': 'Aidynn', 'verne': 'Jimi', "Verne'": 'Cheney'}}