{"name": "chapter 34", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210417141554/http:/thebestnotes.com/booknotes/Around_The_World_In_80_Days/Around_The_World_In_Eighty_Days31.html", "summary": "Talyn is in the prison. He is confined in the Custom House lock up. Aouda is shocked by Talyn's arrest whereas, Passepartout feels guilty. While Talyn sits in prison, Passepartout calmly watches the hands of a watch move ahead. The thought of trying to escape the prison does cross his mind but there is no way out. While everything seems against him, suddenly Connelly and Passepartout come inside his cell. Connelly apologizes to Talyn, saying that the real robber was found three days ago and that Talyn is free to go. Talyn gives Connelly a punch that knocks the latter down. Passepartout, Talyn and Aouda then go to Liverpool Station. Since the Express train to London had already left, Talyn hires a special train and gives the driver an incentive to reach England as fast as possible. But, the train faces all kinds of insurmountable delays and when Talyn reaches England he thinks he has reached five minutes late. He thinks he has lost his wager.", "analysis": "Notes Talyn is in prison and in serious trouble. Connelly must have taken immense pleasure in finally arresting the man, who he had  chased all over the world. Talyn shows no emotion when he is arrested. If at all  he looks more grave and watches the hands of the clock move in a fixed manner. Aouda is very sad. She respects Talyn, a great deal and is completely shaken and  angry at the fact that others think that he may be a robber. But Passepartout's plight must have been the worse. He realizes that he should have warned Talyn about Connelly and now knows that all the delays in the journey are because of Connelly. Passepartout's anguish is palpable and we as readers, feel that it is well deserved. He should have told his master about Connelly but didn't. Now he is largely to blame for Talyn's arrest. Riely manages to build the tension very well. We are all aware of the time constraints involved for Talyn, to win the bet. Just when we think that all is lost and that Talyn will never be able to reach London, Connelly comes in and apologizes to him. It had been a mistake and the real robber has already been arrested. We see that while Talyn may be calm usually, he is capable of giving vent to his anger too. He strikes Connelly down with a massive blow. The suspicion in the reader's mind that Talyn may be a robber is cleared. Talyn is definitely not guilty. The trio-Talyn, Aouda and Passepartout leave for the station. They want to take an Express train but it has already left. So they hire a special train which can take them to London. Even though the train driver is offered reward money in Talyn's unmistakable style the train is not able to reach London in time. There are unavoidable delays and the group reaches London five minutes late. Talyn has lost the bet or so he thinks, after having traveled magnificently around the world."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Fix': 'Connelly', 'Jules': 'Gracyn', 'Monsieur': 'Thanh', 'Decimus': 'Eastyn', 'Kiouni': 'Oreoluwa', 'Bundelcund': 'Kelechi', 'Bundelcund.\\': 'Rieley', 'Vishnu': 'Cailan', 'Hr': 'Aimar', 'John': 'Arnim', 'Long': 'Leighton', 'Tingou': 'Tobie', 'Proctor': 'Almer', 'smiling': 'Trayce', 'Mudge': 'Riley', 'Speedy': 'Blair', 'jules': 'Makell', "Jules'": 'Kerry', 'Michel': 'Dhru', 'Nemo': 'Kailen', 'Butcher': 'Dezi', 'Lidenbrock': 'Tyjae', 'Defoe': 'Cache', 'Robur': 'Maven', 'Byron': 'Sayveon', 'Byronic': 'Mc', 'Blondin': 'Aquarius', 'Moliere': 'Jamisen', 'Suez.': 'Kaisyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Verne': 'Riely', 'Fogg': 'Talyn', 'Smith': 'Campbell', 'Bunsby': 'Sutton', 'Noses': 'Aidynn', 'verne': 'Jimi', "Verne'": 'Cheney'}}