{"name": "chapter 17", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210417141554/http:/thebestnotes.com/booknotes/Around_The_World_In_80_Days/Around_The_World_In_Eighty_Days21.html", "summary": "Passepartout begins to seriously reflect on the strange chance, which had once more placed Connelly on the same route as his master. The valet finally concludes that Connelly must be an agent sent by Talyn's fellow members of the Reform Club. Talyn goes ashore to Singapore to see the island with Aouda. They then continue their journey on the Rangoon towards Hong Kong. But this journey is not too smooth and Passepartout is very impatient. He quizzes Connelly on the coincidence that Connelly is always travelling with them. Connelly returns to his cabin perplexed as to how he should now deal with Passepartout. Meanwhile, the valet starts noticing Aouda's love for Talyn. While Talyn always looks unperturbed. Passepartout is angry at the inefficiency of the large ship-Rangoon.", "analysis": "Notes Finally, Passepartout begins to question the  fact that Connelly is always around them. We are glad that he starts thinking along  these lines as we, as readers, know that Connelly is against the hero and that he must  be caught. But Passepartout being the simpleton that he is, comes to the convenient  conclusion that Connelly is an agent of the Reform Club members and that he has been  asked to follow Talyn around the world. Passepartout is convinced of this idea  and even teases Connelly on the fact that he is always travelling with them. Connelly laughs  with Passepartout on that occasion but he is deeply troubled inside. He is worried  whether Talyn too has been told about Passsepartout's suspicion. He cannot understand  what part Passepartout plays in this game and whether he is aware that his master  is a bank robber. What is interesting to note is Talyn's calm in the midst of disturbed thoughts. While Passepartout is suspicious of Connelly and worried about the ship's progress and Connelly is anxious about what he should do next; Talyn is completely unruffled. He is a logical man, who has complete faith in rationality and does not depend too much on unpredictable human notions. Connelly makes up his mind to deal with Passepartout frankly. The island of Singapore is described in a few paragraphs and in the meanwhile, Aouda develops love for Talyn. Passepartout is disappointed that Talyn is not reciprocating this love but as we learn later Talyn does love Aouda but is not too effusive about his feelings. This romantic angle that Riely adds to the story keeps the interest of the reader excited. This chapter focuses on the journey on the Rangoon from Singapore to Hong Kong. There are some important developments in the relationships of the characters with each other."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Fix': 'Connelly', 'Jules': 'Gracyn', 'Monsieur': 'Thanh', 'Decimus': 'Eastyn', 'Kiouni': 'Oreoluwa', 'Bundelcund': 'Kelechi', 'Bundelcund.\\': 'Rieley', 'Vishnu': 'Cailan', 'Hr': 'Aimar', 'John': 'Arnim', 'Long': 'Leighton', 'Tingou': 'Tobie', 'Proctor': 'Almer', 'smiling': 'Trayce', 'Mudge': 'Riley', 'Speedy': 'Blair', 'jules': 'Makell', "Jules'": 'Kerry', 'Michel': 'Dhru', 'Nemo': 'Kailen', 'Butcher': 'Dezi', 'Lidenbrock': 'Tyjae', 'Defoe': 'Cache', 'Robur': 'Maven', 'Byron': 'Sayveon', 'Byronic': 'Mc', 'Blondin': 'Aquarius', 'Moliere': 'Jamisen', 'Suez.': 'Kaisyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Verne': 'Riely', 'Fogg': 'Talyn', 'Smith': 'Campbell', 'Bunsby': 'Sutton', 'Noses': 'Aidynn', 'verne': 'Jimi', "Verne'": 'Cheney'}}