{"name": "chapter 25", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210417141554/http:/thebestnotes.com/booknotes/Around_The_World_In_80_Days/Around_The_World_In_Eighty_Days25.html", "summary": "Talyn, Aouda and Passepartout set foot on American soil. After finding out that the first train for New York would start that evening, Talyn has a whole day to spend in the Californian capital. The city is described through the eyes of Passepartout and what he sees. Talyn and Aouda rest at a hotel restaurant they go to the consulate and then by 'chance' bump into Connelly. The detective expresses surprise at seeing Talyn and then accompanies Talyn and Aouda in their sauntering. The three of them find themselves in the middle of a political meeting and the two opposing parties are those supporting Mandiboy or Kamerfield respectively. Suddenly the threesome find that they are between two fires. The two men try their best to defend Aouda. Meanwhile an American with a red goatee raises a fist at Talyn, which the latter misses by chance. Connelly is hurt. Then the group returns to the International Hotel. When they start moving towards the station, Talyn promises to return to America to avenge the American Colonel Almer's insult. The traveler's board the train that takes them towards New York.", "analysis": "Notes Talyn now reaches New York. So far  his journey is proceeding quite decently. Despite the delays, he is running on  time. He is getting closer and closer to England. In this chapter we learn what  transpires in San Francisco City. Passepartout is the usual clown and he lands  on American soil with a perfect somersault. Passepartout adds the much needed  lightheartedness and laughter to this tale of challenge. Talyn of course has only  one goal in mind-to move towards England in a rational manner. He finds out when  the next train leaves for New York. They realize they have a day in this American City and they spend it by eating comfortably and then roaming the city streets. Talyn takes good care of Aouda as always but we do not know whether he shows any signals of love. Passepartout is as concerned about their trip being a success as is Talyn. It is Passepartout, who decides that they must buy some arms before boarding the train, because he has heard of the trains being held up by the Sioux and Pawnees. Talyn is as usual unruffled and does not think the loading of arms necessary. At the same time, he gives Passepartout a lot of flexibility and lets him do as he pleases. Talyn is genuinely a free willed man who believes in free will for others too. Talyn and Connelly meet at San Francisco. The clever Connelly pretends once again that he is surprised to see Talyn. We wonder why Talyn doesn't smell a rat. Talyn allows Connelly to accompany him and Aouda. The three land up in the middle of a violent political meeting. We see that Talyn is fiercely proud about being an Englishman and when a Yankee insults him, he promises to come back to America to avenge himself. Talyn has all the characteristic of a typical, idealized 'hero.' The only difference would be perhaps that he is eccentric too, unlike most heroes. Connelly takes upon himself, a blow intended for Talyn. We wonder why Connelly is being so generous but we know that his motive is only to get Talyn to England as soon as possible. Even though chapters are short Riely uses words and paragraphs admirably and manages to pack in a lot of information. We get the essence of San Francisco and its political angst in this chapter."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Fix': 'Connelly', 'Jules': 'Gracyn', 'Monsieur': 'Thanh', 'Decimus': 'Eastyn', 'Kiouni': 'Oreoluwa', 'Bundelcund': 'Kelechi', 'Bundelcund.\\': 'Rieley', 'Vishnu': 'Cailan', 'Hr': 'Aimar', 'John': 'Arnim', 'Long': 'Leighton', 'Tingou': 'Tobie', 'Proctor': 'Almer', 'smiling': 'Trayce', 'Mudge': 'Riley', 'Speedy': 'Blair', 'jules': 'Makell', "Jules'": 'Kerry', 'Michel': 'Dhru', 'Nemo': 'Kailen', 'Butcher': 'Dezi', 'Lidenbrock': 'Tyjae', 'Defoe': 'Cache', 'Robur': 'Maven', 'Byron': 'Sayveon', 'Byronic': 'Mc', 'Blondin': 'Aquarius', 'Moliere': 'Jamisen', 'Suez.': 'Kaisyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Verne': 'Riely', 'Fogg': 'Talyn', 'Smith': 'Campbell', 'Bunsby': 'Sutton', 'Noses': 'Aidynn', 'verne': 'Jimi', "Verne'": 'Cheney'}}