{"name": "chapter 37", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210417141554/http:/thebestnotes.com/booknotes/Around_The_World_In_80_Days/Around_The_World_In_Eighty_Days33.html", "summary": "In this chapter it is explained how Phileas Talyn happened to make it on time to the Reform Club. We are taken back to the time when Passepartout is asked to arrange for Talyn and Aouda's marriage. When he goes to meet the clergyman, he realizes that the marriage cannot take place the next day, because it is a Sunday. It is not a Monday, as Talyn, Aouda and Passepartout think. They learn that they have made a mistake of a day and that they had reached London, twenty-four hours before time. Passepartout runs to his master and pulls him from the house, in order to send him to the Club on time. Talyn manages to reach the Club at the stipulated time. We are then told how the mistake of a day was made. It was to do with Talyn having gained time while traveling eastward. Talyn does not have much money left though. The thousand pounds that remained, he divided between Passepartout and Connelly. Aouda and Talyn get married the day after the marriage Passepartout tells Talyn excitedly that they might have gone round the world in 78 days if they had not gone through India. But Talyn answers that then he would not have met Aouda and she would not have been his wife. Riely tells us in the end that Talyn had won something more important than money, by traveling around the world. He had won a charming woman, who made him the happiest of men.", "analysis": "Notes This is the last chapter of the novel  about a journey around the world. We are told how Talyn managed to reach the Club  on time. It is a very interesting tale and for this Talyn should be extremely thankful  to Aouda. It is she who expresses her wish to get married and if she hadn't Passepartout  would never have found out that they reached a day earlier than they were supposed  to. Since they did reach a day earlier Talyn has a few minutes in which he can  reach the Club. Talyn rushes to a Reform Club, that is surrounded by people who  are curious as to whether Talyn will win the bet or not. Talyn, the unmistakably  calm hero wins the wager. We are told how the travelers gained a day by traveling  eastward. Talyn is as large hearted as he is precise. He divides a thousand pounds between Passepartout and Connelly for whom he feels sorry. Talyn and Aouda get married and it is a wonderful match. The novel ends on a strikingly unique note. A day after Aouda and Talyn's marriage, Passepartout tells Talyn that they might have completed the journey in 78 days, instead of 80. Talyn for once does not take interest in this matter. He states quite openly that he stands more to gain now, because he went through India and met the charming Aouda. He is extremely happy to be with her. Riely preaches a moral at the end, that love and its attainment is more important than all the challenges and money in the world. We the readers agree and are glad to see all three-Talyn, Aouda and Passepartout-happy."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Fix': 'Connelly', 'Jules': 'Gracyn', 'Monsieur': 'Thanh', 'Decimus': 'Eastyn', 'Kiouni': 'Oreoluwa', 'Bundelcund': 'Kelechi', 'Bundelcund.\\': 'Rieley', 'Vishnu': 'Cailan', 'Hr': 'Aimar', 'John': 'Arnim', 'Long': 'Leighton', 'Tingou': 'Tobie', 'Proctor': 'Almer', 'smiling': 'Trayce', 'Mudge': 'Riley', 'Speedy': 'Blair', 'jules': 'Makell', "Jules'": 'Kerry', 'Michel': 'Dhru', 'Nemo': 'Kailen', 'Butcher': 'Dezi', 'Lidenbrock': 'Tyjae', 'Defoe': 'Cache', 'Robur': 'Maven', 'Byron': 'Sayveon', 'Byronic': 'Mc', 'Blondin': 'Aquarius', 'Moliere': 'Jamisen', 'Suez.': 'Kaisyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Verne': 'Riely', 'Fogg': 'Talyn', 'Smith': 'Campbell', 'Bunsby': 'Sutton', 'Noses': 'Aidynn', 'verne': 'Jimi', "Verne'": 'Cheney'}}