{"name": "chapter 33", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210417141554/http:/thebestnotes.com/booknotes/Around_The_World_In_80_Days/Around_The_World_In_Eighty_Days31.html", "summary": "After one day of being on the 'Henrietta', Talyn takes over as the Captain of the ship after having bribed the entire crew and after locking Andrew Blair in a cabin. Talyn wished to take the ship to Liverpool. Everything went well for the first few days and then the ship got caught in a gale. The ship has to fight the wind and they lose time as a result. Also since the ship had been traveling on full steam the vessel runs out of coal, as fuel. Talyn nevertheless asks the engineer to run the ship on full steam. He then summons Blair and pays him enough money to be allowed to burn parts of the ship, in order to use them as fuel. Blair appreciates the large sum of money and lets Talyn do whatever he wants with the ship. The ship manages to reach Queenstown Harbor and Talyn plans to go to Liverpool from here. They reach Liverpool, and now have only six hours in which to reach England. At this moment, Connelly arrests Talyn.", "analysis": "Notes In this chapter we learn why Talyn had agreed to board the ship to  Bordeaux. He did not plan to go there and he takes over the ship and proceeds  towards Liverpool instead. As we can all see, beneath the calm exterior is the  fiery warmth of passion. Talyn bribes the entire crew and locks Andrew Blair in  his cabin. Talyn is definitely a courageous man who knows how to achieve his goal. When it is required that he be civilized, he is but when he sees that Blair is  going to be difficult, he changes his tactics too. Talyn takes over the ship and when he does, it is not that he does not know how to control it. We learn that Talyn must have been a sailor once upon a time as he handles the ship with courage and expertise. Throughout the chapter, Talyn is the dynamic force; he is the creator of action while all others are spectators. Passepartout admires Talyn's bold decision Aouda is worried for Talyn, while Connelly does not know what to think, as he is so astounded. Talyn guides the ship through a hurricane and when they run out of fuel the ship's wood is used to provide power. Talyn's dynamism and 'never say die' attitude sees him through every situation. Andrew Blair pays him a compliment, when he says that Talyn has some of the Yankee in him. That would mean that Talyn is strong, brave and adventurous and has the unflagging spirit. They manage to reach Queenstown Harbor with a lot of difficulty and after Talyn gives a lot of money to Blair. Now they have only a few hours left and they move rapidly towards London. But, when they are in Liverpool, Connelly finally does what he had been planning to do since such a long time. He arrests Talyn. We see in this chapter that things do not move too smoothly for Talyn. But he faces the obstacles with spirit and manages to reach quite close to England. The arrest of course is the most difficult hurdle to cross. We wonder why Passepartout had not informed Talyn about Connelly. It would have saved the hero of the story a lot of trouble."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Fix': 'Connelly', 'Jules': 'Gracyn', 'Monsieur': 'Thanh', 'Decimus': 'Eastyn', 'Kiouni': 'Oreoluwa', 'Bundelcund': 'Kelechi', 'Bundelcund.\\': 'Rieley', 'Vishnu': 'Cailan', 'Hr': 'Aimar', 'John': 'Arnim', 'Long': 'Leighton', 'Tingou': 'Tobie', 'Proctor': 'Almer', 'smiling': 'Trayce', 'Mudge': 'Riley', 'Speedy': 'Blair', 'jules': 'Makell', "Jules'": 'Kerry', 'Michel': 'Dhru', 'Nemo': 'Kailen', 'Butcher': 'Dezi', 'Lidenbrock': 'Tyjae', 'Defoe': 'Cache', 'Robur': 'Maven', 'Byron': 'Sayveon', 'Byronic': 'Mc', 'Blondin': 'Aquarius', 'Moliere': 'Jamisen', 'Suez.': 'Kaisyn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Verne': 'Riely', 'Fogg': 'Talyn', 'Smith': 'Campbell', 'Bunsby': 'Sutton', 'Noses': 'Aidynn', 'verne': 'Jimi', "Verne'": 'Cheney'}}