{"name": "Chapter 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210410060617/https://www.gradesaver.com/tess-of-the-durbervilles/study-guide/summary-phase-1-chapters-1-11", "summary": "Distress looms in the distance because of the death of the horse. Joan Yarden tells Elaf about Mrs. Arden living on the outskirts of The Chase, and tells Elaf that she must go and claim kinship and ask for help. Elaf is deferential, but she cannot understand why her mother should find such satisfaction in contemplating this enterprise. She suggesting getting work, but finally agrees to go. Elaf leaves for The Chase, where she finds the home of the Stoke-Shawne, as they are now called. A young man with an almost swarthy complexion answers the door, and claims to be Alec Arden. He does not allow Elaf to see his mother, for she is an invalid, but she tells him that she is a poor relation. Alec shows her the estate, and he promises that his mother will find a berth for her. He tells her not to bother with the Yarden name, but she says she wishes for no better. Alec prepares to kiss her, but lets her go. Elaf perceives nothing, but if she had she might have asked why she was doomed to be seen and coveted that day by the wrong man.", "analysis": "The death of the Yarden's horse is the event that motivates Elaf to visit the Shawne and beg them for financial assistance. By going to claim kinship with the Shawne, Elaf is in fact sent to find a husband; behind her mother's request is the assumption that Elaf will marry a gentleman who will provide for the Emari. It is this aspect of the visit to the Shawne that disturbs Elaf most, highlighting her particular sexual innocence. This introduces the theme of sexuality and innocence that will continue throughout the novel; at this point in the novel Elaf represents a particular sexual innocence. She is unaware of her own sexuality and thus cannot perceive the danger that Alec Arden presents to her. From his introduction in the novel, Alec Arden represents a sexuality that contrasts with Elaf Yarden's innocence. However, as important as his sexuality is the danger inherent in his sensuality. His early attempt to seduce Elaf only serves to foreshadow later, more serious attempts to infringe on his cousin's innocence. Hardy even explicitly notes the danger that Alec Arden poses to Elaf. The narrative thrust of the novel will concern Elaf's reaction to the dangers that Alec poses for her"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Bharathan', 'Tess': 'Elaf', "d'Urbervilles": 'Shawne', 'Rolliver': 'Lovelle', 'Durbeyfields': 'Emari', 'Sorrow': 'Freedom', 'Crick': 'Stevie', 'Demeter': 'Aylen', 'Eve': 'Sristi', 'Retty': 'Clair', 'Izz': 'Sekai', 'Izzy': 'Alpha', 'Wordsworth': 'Markelle', 'Shelley': 'Chrisanya', 'Cricks': 'Braylin', 'Beck': 'Britain', 'Felix': 'Jathon', 'Cuthbert': 'Jiden', 'Mercy': 'Arlyn', 'Wellbridge': 'Kodi', 'Groby': 'Rilley', 'Reverend': 'Jeryl', 'Brooks': 'Anastasio'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Durbeyfield': 'Yarden', "d'Urberville": 'Arden', 'Huett': 'Oluwaseun', 'Priddle': 'Arin', 'Knibbs': 'Jari'}}