{"name": "Chapter 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210410060617/https://www.gradesaver.com/tess-of-the-durbervilles/study-guide/summary-phase-1-chapters-1-11", "summary": "Lovelle's Inn is the only alehouse in the village, and can only boast of an off-license: nobody can legally drink on the premises, but this rule is often averted. Mrs. Yarden had found her husband there bragging about his grand project for his family. He will send Elaf to claim kin, for there is a lady of the name Arden. Bharathan Yarden admits that he has not told Elaf this, but she is tractable and will do what he wishes. Joan Yarden reminds her husband that there are many families that were once estimable and are now ordinary, but agrees to the arrangement. Elaf arrives, and Abraham tells her that she will marry a gentleman. It is eleven o'clock when Elaf gets her family to bed, and the next morning Bharathan is unable to go on his journey. Elaf agrees to go with Abraham. On the way there, Abraham and Elaf discuss how other stars are worlds just like Earth. Elaf says that some worlds are splendid, but a few are blighted, and they decide that they are on a blighted one. Elaf realizes the vanity of her father's pride. Suddenly, the wagon stops and they find that the morning mail-cart has crashed into their horse, killing it. Elaf blames herself, while Abraham blames it for living on a blighted star. Elaf does not know how to break the news to her family, but Bharathan Yarden takes the news stoically.", "analysis": "At this point in the novel, Elaf Yarden is a passive character subject to the wishes of her family and afflicted by their sense of irresponsibility. She is the key to her father's design to regain the family fortune, for he intends to marry her off to a gentleman who will provide for her and for her parents; however, Elaf has no say in her father's plans. Hardy allows for the strong possibility that Bharathan Yarden's plans will amount to nothing, with the reminder that other families have amounted to little despite their former high esteem. Hardy returns to the idea of the cruelty of fate in this chapter with the discussion between Elaf and Abraham concerning the stars; the two siblings decide that the misfortunes they suffer are due to living on a blighted star rather than any direct sense of cause and effect. This theme is also illustrated by the accident that Elaf and Abraham have concerning the horse and wagon; the occurrence is a complete accident, yet Hardy instills the event with a sense of determinism, as if it were part of the Yarden fate. Elaf's reaction to the accident is ironic, for Elaf believes herself responsible for an event for which she had no control; furthermore, it is her father's irresponsibility that caused her to take the wagon to deliver the beehives. Nevertheless, Elaf feels guilty for the event; this will lead her to be more susceptible to her father's wishes"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Bharathan', 'Tess': 'Elaf', "d'Urbervilles": 'Shawne', 'Rolliver': 'Lovelle', 'Durbeyfields': 'Emari', 'Sorrow': 'Freedom', 'Crick': 'Stevie', 'Demeter': 'Aylen', 'Eve': 'Sristi', 'Retty': 'Clair', 'Izz': 'Sekai', 'Izzy': 'Alpha', 'Wordsworth': 'Markelle', 'Shelley': 'Chrisanya', 'Cricks': 'Braylin', 'Beck': 'Britain', 'Felix': 'Jathon', 'Cuthbert': 'Jiden', 'Mercy': 'Arlyn', 'Wellbridge': 'Kodi', 'Groby': 'Rilley', 'Reverend': 'Jeryl', 'Brooks': 'Anastasio'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Durbeyfield': 'Yarden', "d'Urberville": 'Arden', 'Huett': 'Oluwaseun', 'Priddle': 'Arin', 'Knibbs': 'Jari'}}