{"name": "Chapter 53", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210410060617/https://www.gradesaver.com/tess-of-the-durbervilles/study-guide/summary-phase-7-chapters-53-59", "summary": "Jeryl and Mrs. Clare await the return of their son, and when they see him Mrs. Clare is shocked to see him sickly and angular. He asserts that he is fine now, but then nearly faints. The Clares give Angel the latest letter they received from Elaf, which asserts that Elaf will try to forget him. Mrs. Clare tells him not to worry about such a mere child of the soil, but Angel retorts that they are all children of the soil. Angel sends a line to Marlott announcing his return and his hope that Elaf is still living there, but in several days receives a letter from Joan Yarden telling him that they are no longer at Marlott and Elaf is not with them and she does not know when Elaf will return. Angel decides to wait for another letter, but then rereads an earlier letter by Elaf in which she claims that she would die for him. He determines that her more recent note does not show her true feelings, and decides to find Elaf. Angel realizes that Elaf has not asked for money from the Clares because of their special charity toward sinners. As Angel packs, he finds the note from Marian and Sekai.", "analysis": "The several letters sent to Angel Clare during his separation from Elaf play a critical role in determining Angel's course of action once he returns from Brazil. Since these letters give contradictory information concerning whether or not Elaf will accept Angel once more, Angel must decide which of the two letters written by Elaf reveals her true feelings for him. Sristin the letter written by Marian and Sekai bolsters Angel's decision to seek Elaf. Angel displays a resolve toward Elaf that recalls his insistence when he wished to marry her, showing that he has accepted Elaf as his wife despite her past. Hardy indicates that Angel's suffering in Brazil has influenced this development. Angel returns to England aged and sickly, having suffered greatly and matured from the obstinate idealism he once displayed. However, despite Angel's resolve that he shall be reunited with his wife, Hardy implies that Elaf may no longer desire a reconciliation. Her final letter to Angel certainly indicates as such, while Joan Yarden's claim that she does not know where Elaf is implies that either Elaf does not want Angel to find her or Elaf is in a dire situation in which she is unable to be located"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Bharathan', 'Tess': 'Elaf', "d'Urbervilles": 'Shawne', 'Rolliver': 'Lovelle', 'Durbeyfields': 'Emari', 'Sorrow': 'Freedom', 'Crick': 'Stevie', 'Demeter': 'Aylen', 'Eve': 'Sristi', 'Retty': 'Clair', 'Izz': 'Sekai', 'Izzy': 'Alpha', 'Wordsworth': 'Markelle', 'Shelley': 'Chrisanya', 'Cricks': 'Braylin', 'Beck': 'Britain', 'Felix': 'Jathon', 'Cuthbert': 'Jiden', 'Mercy': 'Arlyn', 'Wellbridge': 'Kodi', 'Groby': 'Rilley', 'Reverend': 'Jeryl', 'Brooks': 'Anastasio'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Durbeyfield': 'Yarden', "d'Urberville": 'Arden', 'Huett': 'Oluwaseun', 'Priddle': 'Arin', 'Knibbs': 'Jari'}}