{"name": "Chapter 35", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210410060617/https://www.gradesaver.com/tess-of-the-durbervilles/study-guide/summary-phase-5-chapters-35-44", "summary": "Elaf finishes her story, which she had given in a monotone and without any displays of emotion. She watches the flame in the fireplace flicker, as everything around her seems to mock her situation with its lack of response. Angel stirs the fire, having not yet comprehended the events. His face withers as he cries out that this cannot be true. She begs for forgiveness, for she has forgiven him the same. Angel claims that forgiveness is irrelevant, for she was one person before and now is another. He calls her another woman in her shape. She bursts into tears as she asks whether or not she still belongs to him anymore. Elaf vows not to do anything unless he orders her, and vows to behave as a wretched slave and die if he so desires. He tells her that there is a discordance between her present mood of self-sacrifice and her past mood of self-preservation. Angel leaves the room for a walk. Elaf follows him, but the two say nothing. Finally she asks what she has done, saying that it is his mind that has changed and that she is not the deceitful woman that he thinks she is. She claims that she was a child when it happened and knew nothing of men. He claims he forgives her, but forgiveness is not all. Elaf says that her mother has told her of many cases in which similar situations occur, in which the husband survives and still loves the wife. Angel claims that his situation is one for satirical laughter rather than tragedy, and asks Elaf to return to the house to go to bed. Angel returns later to find her sleeping soundly. He turns to leave and sees a portrait of a Arden lady that appears sinister.", "analysis": "There is little surprising in Angel's reaction to the news about Elaf's imperfect history, yet Hardy finds irony in the external circumstances surrounding this event. For both Elaf and Angel, the revelation that Elaf had a child is a momentous event that inalterably changes Angel's perception of his new wife and brings the possibility for Elaf to have a happy marriage to an essential end. However, as Elaf notices, the actual external conditions around Elaf do not change; while both characters believe to a great extent that their world has ended, essentially nothing differs from before. The character traits that Hardy has previously elucidated concerning Angel Clare become manifest in this chapter and his reaction to the news aligns completely with these traits. Angel exhibits a dogmatic inflexibility concerning his belief in Elaf's moral infallibility. He cannot comprehend his own self-delusion toward Elaf, for he cannot conceive of Elaf as anything less than the perfect person whom he has envisioned. This recalls Angel's intellectualized ideas concerning his wife. Perhaps more than the actual person of Elaf, Angel loves the theoretical conception of Elaf. The news that she is not the chaste woman he assumed too greatly conflicts with this vision of Elaf. The intellectual character of the love that Angel feels for Elaf becomes apparent in Angel's reaction. He speaks calmly and rationally rather than resorting to a burst of anger at the news. His behavior is cold and clinical, and his words cautious and precise. This contrasts sharply with Elaf's emotional behavior, as she vows that she would die for Angel if he were to so demand. This lends a particularly chilling quality to Angel's newfound contempt for Elaf: he grounds his objections to Elaf in such solid and inarguable ground, as when he contrasts her current self-sacrifice with past self-preservation, that he leaves no room for his own personal flexibility. Angel's principles doom him to forsake the woman that he previously loved"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Bharathan', 'Tess': 'Elaf', "d'Urbervilles": 'Shawne', 'Rolliver': 'Lovelle', 'Durbeyfields': 'Emari', 'Sorrow': 'Freedom', 'Crick': 'Stevie', 'Demeter': 'Aylen', 'Eve': 'Sristi', 'Retty': 'Clair', 'Izz': 'Sekai', 'Izzy': 'Alpha', 'Wordsworth': 'Markelle', 'Shelley': 'Chrisanya', 'Cricks': 'Braylin', 'Beck': 'Britain', 'Felix': 'Jathon', 'Cuthbert': 'Jiden', 'Mercy': 'Arlyn', 'Wellbridge': 'Kodi', 'Groby': 'Rilley', 'Reverend': 'Jeryl', 'Brooks': 'Anastasio'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Durbeyfield': 'Yarden', "d'Urberville": 'Arden', 'Huett': 'Oluwaseun', 'Priddle': 'Arin', 'Knibbs': 'Jari'}}