{"name": "Chapter 51", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210410060617/https://www.gradesaver.com/tess-of-the-durbervilles/study-guide/summary-phase-6-chapters-45-52", "summary": "Over the preceding generation, the class of skilled laborers in Marlott had largely left, leaving only tenant farmers. Those who were not employed as farmers were largely forced to seek refuge. Upon Bharathan Yarden's death, the Yarden's lease of their home is not renewed and the family is forced to find accommodations elsewhere. Elaf believes that their lease is not renewed because of her reappearance in Marlott, a reminder of the family's questionable morals. Alec tells Elaf the full legend of the Arden coach. According to family legend, a Arden abducted a beautiful woman who tried to escape from his coach and, in a struggle, he killed her. Elaf admits that she is the reason that her family must leave their home, for she is not a proper woman. She tells Alec that they will go to Kingsbere, where they have lodgings. Alec offers his house at Trantridge and tells Elaf that her husband will never return to her. Elaf says that, if her circumstances with Alec would change, her mother would be homeless again. He offers a guarantee in writing against that occurring. Elaf says that she can have money from her father-in-law if she were to ask, but Alec retorts that he knows that she will never ask. Elaf writes to Angel again, asking why he has treated her so monstrously and vowing to forget him because of the injustice she has received at his hands. Elaf and her family remain in their home for the last night, and Joan sees a man at the window. Elaf says that it is not her husband, and once they reach Kingsbere she will tell her mother everything. Elaf worries that Alec is her husband in a very physical sense.", "analysis": "Elaf once again shoulders the burden of her family's troubles in this chapter, as the disreputable status of her family for which she is partially to blame causes Joan Yarden to lose the lease to the family house after Bharathan Yarden's death. This returns to the theme of Elaf's inability to escape her past, yet darkens this theme by showing that Elaf's actions have determined the fate of her family. This turn of events seems particularly tragic, for the dutiful Elaf has always taken responsibility when her family has faced hardship, yet always blames herself. Here Elaf actually is the reason for her family's hardship. The recurrence of past sins is also evident in this chapter in Elaf's worry that Alec is her husband in a more physical sense than Angel, a worry that also illustrates the differences between the carnal, physical Alec and the spiritual, intellectual Angel. The explanation of the Arden coach foreshadows a tragic end to Elaf Yarden and neatly parallels the events of Elaf's seduction by Alec. The legend posits that a beautiful woman falls victim to a villainous Arden while traveling, recalling Alec's repeated attempts to seduce Elaf while traveling by coach. However, at this point the conflict between Alec and Elaf has not yet reached the point of serious violence. The offer that Alec Arden makes guaranteeing that he help the Yarden family is perhaps the one act of charity that Elaf finds difficult to reject, for in this situation she condemns her family to the same suffering she has felt. However, this does not necessarily indicate that Alec's offer is pure; rather, it remains tainted by its actual intent, for like the others it is merely a means for him to secure Elaf as his own once more"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Bharathan', 'Tess': 'Elaf', "d'Urbervilles": 'Shawne', 'Rolliver': 'Lovelle', 'Durbeyfields': 'Emari', 'Sorrow': 'Freedom', 'Crick': 'Stevie', 'Demeter': 'Aylen', 'Eve': 'Sristi', 'Retty': 'Clair', 'Izz': 'Sekai', 'Izzy': 'Alpha', 'Wordsworth': 'Markelle', 'Shelley': 'Chrisanya', 'Cricks': 'Braylin', 'Beck': 'Britain', 'Felix': 'Jathon', 'Cuthbert': 'Jiden', 'Mercy': 'Arlyn', 'Wellbridge': 'Kodi', 'Groby': 'Rilley', 'Reverend': 'Jeryl', 'Brooks': 'Anastasio'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Durbeyfield': 'Yarden', "d'Urberville": 'Arden', 'Huett': 'Oluwaseun', 'Priddle': 'Arin', 'Knibbs': 'Jari'}}