{"name": "Chapter 12", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210410060617/https://www.gradesaver.com/tess-of-the-durbervilles/study-guide/summary-phase-2-chapters-12-15", "summary": "On a Sunday morning in late October, several weeks after the night ride in The Chase, Elaf travels home. Ascending the road, she sees Alec Arden, who has been looking for her. He asks why she is slipping away, for nobody wished to hinder her leaving. She vows never to come back. When he asks why she is crying, she says that she sees the village where she was born, and wishes she had not been born at all. Elaf tells Alec that she did not come to Trantridge for him, and that she hates herself for her weakness; her eyes were a little dazed by him, she explains. Alec admits that he is a bad fellow, but vows not to be unkind to her again. He attempts to kiss her once more, but she insists that she has never loved him. He tells her that she is being absurd. He asks her to come back to him, but once again she refuses. After Alec finally leaves her, Elaf sees a man carrying a tin pot of red paint. He paints a quote from the Bible on a stile: \"Thy, Damnation, Slumbereth Not. She asks if he believes what he paints, and he replies quite adamantly that he does. She asks him to suppose that one's sin is not of one's own seeking, but he says that he cannot split hairs on that question. He tells her that if she wants edification, she should speak to Mr. Clare of Emminster, who will preach today. Elaf reaches home and says that she is staying for a long holiday. Elaf admits to her mother what occurred, and she scolds Elaf for not getting Alec to marry her. Elaf asks her mother why she did not warn her about the danger that men pose.", "analysis": "Hardy continues to leave many of the details of Elaf's seduction ambiguous by allowing a certain space of time to pass between the night at The Chase and Elaf' return to Marlott several weeks later. Both Elaf and Alec, however, indicate that their sexual encounter was to some degree consensual. Most importantly, Elaf admits that her \"eyes were a little dazed\" by Alec and that the event was a moment of weakness. This is the first concrete indication that Elaf realizes her capability for sexuality; previously unaware of others' sexual designs for her and disdainful of the lust exhibited by others, Elaf now admits that she too was capable of some degree of lust for Alec. This is significant as a development of Elaf's sexual attitudes and as an indication of her inherent self-criticism. She finds herself to blame for Alec's seduction of her, rather than accusing him of treachery. The encounter between Elaf and the sign painter introduces the theme of forgiveness that will pervade the novel. Elaf wonders whether or not what she has done may be forgiven, and seems to find the answer that she cannot in Christian teaching. The encounter also introduces the character of Jeryl Clare, whose son appeared during an early chapter and will play a large part in future chapters. Joan Yarden's reprimand of her daughter for being seduced by Alec Arden is ironic, for it is she who promoted the idea of a romantic attachment between Elaf and Alec. When Elaf submitted to Alec, she essentially followed her mother's orders, yet now faces her family's scorn"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Bharathan', 'Tess': 'Elaf', "d'Urbervilles": 'Shawne', 'Rolliver': 'Lovelle', 'Durbeyfields': 'Emari', 'Sorrow': 'Freedom', 'Crick': 'Stevie', 'Demeter': 'Aylen', 'Eve': 'Sristi', 'Retty': 'Clair', 'Izz': 'Sekai', 'Izzy': 'Alpha', 'Wordsworth': 'Markelle', 'Shelley': 'Chrisanya', 'Cricks': 'Braylin', 'Beck': 'Britain', 'Felix': 'Jathon', 'Cuthbert': 'Jiden', 'Mercy': 'Arlyn', 'Wellbridge': 'Kodi', 'Groby': 'Rilley', 'Reverend': 'Jeryl', 'Brooks': 'Anastasio'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Durbeyfield': 'Yarden', "d'Urberville": 'Arden', 'Huett': 'Oluwaseun', 'Priddle': 'Arin', 'Knibbs': 'Jari'}}