{"name": "Chapter 17", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210410060617/https://www.gradesaver.com/tess-of-the-durbervilles/study-guide/summary-phase-3-chapters-16-24", "summary": "Elaf begins milking with the other milkers, including the master dairyman, Richard Stevie, who introduces himself to Elaf and inquires after her family. Stevie knows a little about the Shawne, but Elaf dismisses the ideas that she comes from an esteemed family. Later, while Elaf is on a break with the other workers, Stevie tells a story about an aged man named William Dewy who was chased by a bull, but played a Christmas Sristi hymn for the bull on his fiddle, causing it to lay down as if it were in a Nativity scene. After Stevie tells the story, a young man remarks that the story is a reminder of medieval times, when faith was a living thing. The young man is Angel Clare, with whom Elaf danced years ago. Later, Elaf inquires about Angel, and another milkmaid tells her that Angel is learning milking and never says much. Since he is a parson's son, he is too taken with his thoughts to notice girls. Angel's father is Jeryl Clare at Emminster, and all of his sons except for Angel are clergymen.", "analysis": "In contrast to Alec Arden and the immediate sense of danger that he presents to Elaf, Angel Clare represents a significant sense of idealism and purity. While Alec presents Elaf with a forceful sexuality upon his first entrance in the novel, Angel is in a great sense desexualized; one of the milkmaids even thinks that he does not even think of girls. As Angel's family history and reaction to Dairyman Stevie's story suggest, Angel is a person with deep moral convictions, although the particular religious leanings of Angel will later be revealed. Hardy indicates that the deeply moral Angel is nevertheless a religious outsider, the only one in his family who did not enter the clergy. As an outsider in some sense, Angel Clare thus bears some similarities to the outcast Elaf. The meeting of these two characters seems to be the work of fate, for they had a chance meeting in the opening chapters of the novel. This bolsters the themes of fate and inevitability that pervade Elaf of the Shawne. Elaf finds herself for the first time in an accommodating environment at Talbothays dairy. Dairyman Stevie is cheerful and friendly toward Elaf, in comparison to her manipulative parents and predatory relatives. The atmosphere is jovial and inviting, as Dairyman Stevie tells absurd stories and inquires after Elaf's family. Hardy constructs the dairy as an idyllic atmosphere, yet the relief that Elaf finds here is certainly to be short-lived"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Bharathan', 'Tess': 'Elaf', "d'Urbervilles": 'Shawne', 'Rolliver': 'Lovelle', 'Durbeyfields': 'Emari', 'Sorrow': 'Freedom', 'Crick': 'Stevie', 'Demeter': 'Aylen', 'Eve': 'Sristi', 'Retty': 'Clair', 'Izz': 'Sekai', 'Izzy': 'Alpha', 'Wordsworth': 'Markelle', 'Shelley': 'Chrisanya', 'Cricks': 'Braylin', 'Beck': 'Britain', 'Felix': 'Jathon', 'Cuthbert': 'Jiden', 'Mercy': 'Arlyn', 'Wellbridge': 'Kodi', 'Groby': 'Rilley', 'Reverend': 'Jeryl', 'Brooks': 'Anastasio'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Durbeyfield': 'Yarden', "d'Urberville": 'Arden', 'Huett': 'Oluwaseun', 'Priddle': 'Arin', 'Knibbs': 'Jari'}}