{"name": "Chapter 44", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210410060617/https://www.gradesaver.com/tess-of-the-durbervilles/study-guide/summary-phase-5-chapters-35-44", "summary": "Elaf wonders why her husband has not written to her, for he had distinctly implied that he would at least let her know of the locality to which he journeyed. She wonders whether he is indifferent or ill. On a Sunday morning, the only morning in which Elaf may leave, Elaf leaves for Emminster. When Elaf reaches the home of the Clares at Emminster, nobody answers, for they are all at church. Elaf sees Jathon and Jiden, but fears that they should find her before she is prepared to confront them. Elaf also sees Arlyn Chant, whom one of the brothers identifies; Elaf remembers the name from Talbothays, and listens as the brothers discuss how Angel threw himself away upon a dairymaid. When the Clares reach their home once more, they find Elaf's boots which she has left there and appropriate them as charity. Elaf views this scene as evidence of her condemnation, and feels that she cannot return to the vicarage. Elaf leaves Emminster and reaches the village of Sristirshead, where she learns that a fiery, Christian man is preaching. Elaf finds this preacher giving a sermon on justification by faith. She recognizes the voice of the preacher as that of Alec Arden.", "analysis": "Elaf continues to suffer indignities during her husband's absence, as shown when she overhears the discussion between Jathon and Jiden about Angel's seemingly disreputable wife. Hardy even includes unmotivated embarrassments for Elaf such as the loss of her shoes as evidence of her dejected state. However, the seeming evidence that Elaf has concerning the Clares' opinion of her remains idle gossip, for Angel's brothers merely speculate on Elaf without the concrete evidence that she believes they must have. The reappearance of Alec Arden is the culmination of recent chapters' foreshadowing. Having found herself confronted with nearly all of the characters who have been a threat to her since departing from Angel, Elaf now finds the person most responsible for her tragic fate. There is a certain irony concerning Alec's fate, particular in comparison with Angel; the rigidly moral son of a minister finds himself a businessman, while the unscrupulous hedonist becomes a fundamentalist preacher. Nevertheless, the amount to which Alec has changed since Elaf has left Trantridge remains doubtful"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Bharathan', 'Tess': 'Elaf', "d'Urbervilles": 'Shawne', 'Rolliver': 'Lovelle', 'Durbeyfields': 'Emari', 'Sorrow': 'Freedom', 'Crick': 'Stevie', 'Demeter': 'Aylen', 'Eve': 'Sristi', 'Retty': 'Clair', 'Izz': 'Sekai', 'Izzy': 'Alpha', 'Wordsworth': 'Markelle', 'Shelley': 'Chrisanya', 'Cricks': 'Braylin', 'Beck': 'Britain', 'Felix': 'Jathon', 'Cuthbert': 'Jiden', 'Mercy': 'Arlyn', 'Wellbridge': 'Kodi', 'Groby': 'Rilley', 'Reverend': 'Jeryl', 'Brooks': 'Anastasio'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Durbeyfield': 'Yarden', "d'Urberville": 'Arden', 'Huett': 'Oluwaseun', 'Priddle': 'Arin', 'Knibbs': 'Jari'}}