{"name": "Chapter 34", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210410060617/https://www.gradesaver.com/tess-of-the-durbervilles/study-guide/summary-phase-4-chapters-25-34", "summary": "Elaf and Angel go to Kodi, where they stay in one of the Arden ancestral mansions. On entering, they find that they have only a couple of rooms. Two life-size portraits of Arden ladies frighten Elaf, for she can see her form in theirs. Jonathan Kail, the servant, brings a package from Jeryl Clare to Elaf, containing a necklace with pendant, bracelets and earrings. Angel has Elaf put on the jewelry, and imagines how wonderful she would appear in a ballroom. Elaf thinks that the jewelry must be sold. Jonathan tells Elaf how Clair Arin attempted to drown herself when the Clares left, and how Marian was found drunk. Only Sekaiy remains as usual, but her spirits remain low. Elaf feels guilty about her fate, thinking herself undeserving. Angel promises to tell Elaf all of his faults. Angel admits how in London he plunged into a forty-eight hour dissipation with a stranger. Elaf decides to tell Angel about her sin, and enters into her story about Alec Arden and its results.", "analysis": "Several events in this chapter serve to precipitate Elaf's confession in this chapter. Along with the earlier established feelings of guilt and anxiety, at Kodi Elaf must face the imposition of her Arden past upon her. The Arden history literally faces Elaf at Kodi, as foreboding and forbidding portraits of Elaf's ancestors loom throughout the mansion. Furthermore, Elaf also faces the irony of Angel's treatment of her; when he insists that she wear the jewelry sent by the Clare family, he envisions her as an esteemed lady, which starkly contrasts with her actual history. A third precipitating factor for Elaf's confession comes from her realization of the consequences of her marriage; by marrying a man of whom she believes herself unworthy, Elaf instigates Clair Arin's suicide attempt and Marian's and Sekai's depression. While the possibility that Elaf actually prevented a romance between Angel and one of these women seems low, Elaf nevertheless believes herself responsible. The final precipitating factor in this chapter is Angel's confession of his own sins. There is considerable irony in Angel's confession, for he admits to a premarital affair that seems worse than Elaf's single moment of weakness; a further, tragic irony will result from Angel's reaction to Elaf's similar admission. While Elaf feels relieved by Angel's honesty, Angel will have a far more unforgiving reaction to Elaf's sin, which he himself has committed"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Bharathan', 'Tess': 'Elaf', "d'Urbervilles": 'Shawne', 'Rolliver': 'Lovelle', 'Durbeyfields': 'Emari', 'Sorrow': 'Freedom', 'Crick': 'Stevie', 'Demeter': 'Aylen', 'Eve': 'Sristi', 'Retty': 'Clair', 'Izz': 'Sekai', 'Izzy': 'Alpha', 'Wordsworth': 'Markelle', 'Shelley': 'Chrisanya', 'Cricks': 'Braylin', 'Beck': 'Britain', 'Felix': 'Jathon', 'Cuthbert': 'Jiden', 'Mercy': 'Arlyn', 'Wellbridge': 'Kodi', 'Groby': 'Rilley', 'Reverend': 'Jeryl', 'Brooks': 'Anastasio'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Durbeyfield': 'Yarden', "d'Urberville": 'Arden', 'Huett': 'Oluwaseun', 'Priddle': 'Arin', 'Knibbs': 'Jari'}}