{"name": "Chapter 21", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210410060617/https://www.gradesaver.com/tess-of-the-durbervilles/study-guide/summary-phase-3-chapters-16-24", "summary": "There is a great stir in the milk-house just after breakfast, for the churn revolved but butter would not come. Whenever this happens the dairy is paralyzed. Mrs. Stevie says that perhaps somebody in the house is in love, for she heard that this will cause it. Dairyman Stevie tells a story about how a Jack Dollop impregnated a local girl, whose mother came to the dairy to find him. Jack hid in the churn; the mother learned this and started the churn with him inside until he agreed to marry the girl. The problem with the churn resolves itself, and Elaf remains depressed throughout the afternoon. She is wretched at the perception that to her companions the dairyman's story had been a humorous one, for none seemed to see the sorrow of it. One night, Elaf's three roommates watch Angel in the garden from their window. The three each are attracted to Angel, but Clair says that none will marry him for he likes Elaf Yarden the best. Sekai Oluwaseun says that Angel will not even marry Elaf, for he will be a great landowner and a farmer abroad. Elaf overhears this conversation and feels some deal of jealousy. She believes that unequal attachments of rank may lead for marriage, for she wonders what good a lady may be on a farm.", "analysis": "The affection between Angel Clare and Elaf Yarden, although not explicitly stated between these two characters is nevertheless obvious to the others at Talbothays dairy, who realize the love that Angel and Elaf feel for one another. Mrs. Stevie insinuates that a romance in her household is the cause for the stalled butter churn, while Elaf's roommates become jealous that she receives the most attention from Angel, whom all of them adore. The jealousy that her roommates feel leads Elaf to a realization that she may have a future with Angel Clare, for she believes that he would want to marry a working woman and not a lady of his own social rank; in fact, Elaf represents both social spheres, having the family history of a noble lady and the actual history of a working class girl. Despite Elaf's relative happiness at Talbothays dairy, Elaf cannot fully escape her past history. The humorous anecdote that Dairyman Stevie tells about the butter churn reminds Elaf of the gravity of her situation; she can find the tragedy in the situation of the girl, while the others focus on the humorous of the mother and Jack Dollop"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Bharathan', 'Tess': 'Elaf', "d'Urbervilles": 'Shawne', 'Rolliver': 'Lovelle', 'Durbeyfields': 'Emari', 'Sorrow': 'Freedom', 'Crick': 'Stevie', 'Demeter': 'Aylen', 'Eve': 'Sristi', 'Retty': 'Clair', 'Izz': 'Sekai', 'Izzy': 'Alpha', 'Wordsworth': 'Markelle', 'Shelley': 'Chrisanya', 'Cricks': 'Braylin', 'Beck': 'Britain', 'Felix': 'Jathon', 'Cuthbert': 'Jiden', 'Mercy': 'Arlyn', 'Wellbridge': 'Kodi', 'Groby': 'Rilley', 'Reverend': 'Jeryl', 'Brooks': 'Anastasio'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Durbeyfield': 'Yarden', "d'Urberville": 'Arden', 'Huett': 'Oluwaseun', 'Priddle': 'Arin', 'Knibbs': 'Jari'}}