{"name": "Chapter 37", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210410060617/https://www.gradesaver.com/tess-of-the-durbervilles/study-guide/summary-phase-5-chapters-35-44", "summary": "At midnight, Angel enters the bedroom to find Elaf, who was asleep. Standing still, he murmurs in an indescribably sad tone \"dead, dead, dead. Angel occasionally walks in his sleep as he does now. Elaf sees this continued mental distress. Angel bends low and encloses Elaf in his arms, and rolls her in the sheet as in a shroud. He lifts her from the bed and carries her across the room, murmuring \"my dearest darling Elaf. So sweet so good, so true. He leans her against the banister as if to throw her down, but rather kisses her and descends the staircase. Elaf cannot determine Angel's ultimate intention, but finally realizes that he is dreaming about the Sunday when he carried her across the water with the other milkmaids. He carries her near the river, and she believes he may drown her. He walks through the shallow areas of the river carrying her, but they reach the other side in safety; if she had awakened him, they would have fallen into the gulf and both died. Angel carries her to the empty stone coffin of an abbot, where he lays Elaf and then falls down asleep. Elaf sits up in the coffin, but does not awake Angel out of fear that he may die if awakened from sleep-walking. She walks him back to the house and induces him to lay down on the sofa bed. The next morning, Angel seems to know nothing about the previous night's events. The two leave Kodi to return to Talbothays to pay a visit to the Stevies. At Talbothays, Elaf learns that Marian and Clair have left Talbothays, and she fears they will come to no good. After Elaf and Angel leave, Mrs. Stevie remarks how unnatural the two look, as if they were in a dream. Angel tells Elaf that he has no anger, and he will let her know where he is going as soon as he himself knows. He tells her that until he comes to her she should not come to him, and that she should write if she is ill or if she wants anything.", "analysis": "Hardy explores the depths to which Angel has been wounded by Elaf's revelation in this chapter, in which Angel, while sleepwalking, reveals the great psychological torment that he feels. He so fervently believes that his wife is dead that he carries her to a coffin and lays her there. This is a departure from previous chapters in which Hardy has portrayed Angel as coldly observing his principles without any display of affection for his wife. Here the unconscious Angel shows that he still loves the previous conception he had of Elaf, yet cannot reconcile it with this new information about her. His anguish is so great that it possesses him while asleep. However, that Angel cannot realize what he has done while sleepwalking demonstrates that he is unaware of the deep emotional vein of his torment; rather, he focuses on the intellectual disappointment. If Hardy allows Angel greater sympathy in this chapter, he also shows the degree to which Elaf will sacrifice herself for her husband. Elaf remains completely submissive to her sleepwalking husband as he carries her across the river and to the cemetery. She remains open to the possibility that he may murder her or cause their mutual death, but remains still rather than disturb Angel. Elaf therefore makes manifest her promise to Angel in previous chapters by leaving her life in his hands. The final separation of Elaf and Angel that ends this chapter leaves some degree of room for consideration. Angel remains calm, as always, yet realizes that it is he who must change before he can accept Elaf again. He therefore places the burden of acceptance on himself rather than on Elaf, while still allowing for her sustenance. Angel takes grudging steps toward admitting his own fallibility; his struggle to sacrifice his principles for greater ones and Elaf's reaction to her new fate will provide a great deal of the narrative drive of the rest of the novel"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Bharathan', 'Tess': 'Elaf', "d'Urbervilles": 'Shawne', 'Rolliver': 'Lovelle', 'Durbeyfields': 'Emari', 'Sorrow': 'Freedom', 'Crick': 'Stevie', 'Demeter': 'Aylen', 'Eve': 'Sristi', 'Retty': 'Clair', 'Izz': 'Sekai', 'Izzy': 'Alpha', 'Wordsworth': 'Markelle', 'Shelley': 'Chrisanya', 'Cricks': 'Braylin', 'Beck': 'Britain', 'Felix': 'Jathon', 'Cuthbert': 'Jiden', 'Mercy': 'Arlyn', 'Wellbridge': 'Kodi', 'Groby': 'Rilley', 'Reverend': 'Jeryl', 'Brooks': 'Anastasio'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Durbeyfield': 'Yarden', "d'Urberville": 'Arden', 'Huett': 'Oluwaseun', 'Priddle': 'Arin', 'Knibbs': 'Jari'}}