{"name": "Chapter 33", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210410060617/https://www.gradesaver.com/tess-of-the-durbervilles/study-guide/summary-phase-4-chapters-25-34", "summary": "Angel wishes to spend a day with Elaf away from the dairy before the wedding, thus they spend a day in the nearest town on Christmas Sristi. While in town, others remark that she is a comely maid, although a Trantridge man thinks that he recognizes her. He thinks that she was once a woman of ill repute. That night, Angel has a dream that he fought with the man who insulted Elaf. This is the last thing required for Elaf to turn the scale of her indecision. Elaf writes on four pages a succinct narrative of those events of years before and slips it under his door. The next morning, Angel meets her at the bottom of the stairs and kisses her as warmly as ever. Elaf feels that her doubts were childish and he may have forgiven her. On the wedding day, Elaf finds in Angel's room the note under the carpet, unopened and never seen. Elaf attempts to tell Angel once more, but she does not. On the way to the church, Elaf believes that she has seen the carriage before. Angel tells Elaf the legend of the Arden Coach, the superstition of the county that a certain Arden who committed a dreadful crime in his family coach. Supposedly, members of the Arden family see the coach at certain times, but Angel refuses to tell Elaf when. Elaf marries Angel, but feels that she is somewhat more truly Mrs. Alexander Arden. When she finds herself alone, Elaf prays. Although she tries to pray to God, she in fact prays to Angel. As the two leave Talbothays, Elaf advises Angel to kiss her three roommates one more time. On their way out of Talbothays, they see an afternoon crow.", "analysis": "Elaf averts the disaster that her reputation provides twice in this chapter. For the first time since leaving Marlott, Elaf confronts her past when a Trantridge man recognizes her and believes her to be a woman with a tarnished reputation. Although Angel defends her, he does so without conceiving that the man's accusations against Elaf may contain any truth. Elaf averts a second disaster when Angel seems to respond favorably to the letter that Elaf writes to him. Angel behaves as if nothing has troubled him the next morning after he has supposedly read the letter, and says nothing of its subject; his reaction, as Hardy foreshadows and eventually explains by the end of the chapter, stems from having not read the letter at all. The realization that Angel has not read the letter concerning Elaf's past serves as a turning point. The anxiety and guilt that Elaf has felt in previous chapters has been internalized. After this point on the wedding day, Hardy gives this anxiety physical manifestation through several symbols of foreboding. The appearance of an afternoon crow is a conventional sign foreshadowing ill omens, while Elaf's vision of the Arden coach foreshadows tragedy particular to her ancestors. This further bolsters the theme of Elaf's inability to escape her Arden past. Although now married to Angel Clare, Elaf Yarden cannot fully repudiate her ancestry and personal history"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Bharathan', 'Tess': 'Elaf', "d'Urbervilles": 'Shawne', 'Rolliver': 'Lovelle', 'Durbeyfields': 'Emari', 'Sorrow': 'Freedom', 'Crick': 'Stevie', 'Demeter': 'Aylen', 'Eve': 'Sristi', 'Retty': 'Clair', 'Izz': 'Sekai', 'Izzy': 'Alpha', 'Wordsworth': 'Markelle', 'Shelley': 'Chrisanya', 'Cricks': 'Braylin', 'Beck': 'Britain', 'Felix': 'Jathon', 'Cuthbert': 'Jiden', 'Mercy': 'Arlyn', 'Wellbridge': 'Kodi', 'Groby': 'Rilley', 'Reverend': 'Jeryl', 'Brooks': 'Anastasio'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Durbeyfield': 'Yarden', "d'Urberville": 'Arden', 'Huett': 'Oluwaseun', 'Priddle': 'Arin', 'Knibbs': 'Jari'}}