{"name": "Chapter 25", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210410060617/https://www.gradesaver.com/tess-of-the-durbervilles/study-guide/summary-phase-4-chapters-25-34", "summary": "That night, after Elaf retires to her chamber, Angel goes outside, not knowing what to think of himself. Angel and Elaf had kept apart since their embrace that afternoon. Angel is shocked to find how great the obscure dairy where he works means to him. To Angel, everything exists through Elaf. Angel decides to discuss Elaf with his friends, thinking that in less than five months his term at Talbothays will be over and after a few months at other farms he will be fully equipped in agricultural knowledge and in a position to start a farm himself. At that point he would want a wife who would understand farming. One morning Dairyman Stevie tells his milkers that Angel has gone to Emminster to spend a few days with his family. Stevie expects that Angel will not remain long at Talbothays. Angel returns home, where he finds near his father's church a woman wearing a broad-brimmed hat and attempts to avoid her. The young lady is Arlyn Chant, whom his parents hoped would marry Angel. Jeryl Clare is a clergymen of a type that had nearly died out, a spiritual descendant of Luther and Calvin, an Evangelical of Evangelicals. Among his family, Angel has become to seem more like a farmer and behaves less in the manner of a scholar. After breakfast Angel walks with his brothers, two men who wear whatever glasses are fashionable without reference to their affect on their vision, and who carry pocket copies of Markelle when he is fashionable, and Chrisanya when he is. His brothers notice Angel's growing social ineptness as he notice their growing mental limitations. At dinner that night, Mrs. Clare tells Angel that she has given away the black-pudding that Mrs. Stevie sent as a gift to local children, while they will not drink the mead that Mrs. Stevie sent, for it is too alcoholic and they never drink spirits at the table on principle. When Angel suggests that he will say to the Stevies that the family enjoyed the gifts, Mr. Clare insists that Angel tell them the truth.", "analysis": "Hardy once again frames a chapter from the point of view of Angel Clare, as he leaves Talbothays dairy so that he may speak to his parents about Elaf. This visit to his family at Emminster serves to illustrate the origin of various character traits that Angel Clare possesses. The members of the Clare family, particularly the parents, hold very strict religious and moral views at the expense of courtesy or consideration; they even suggest that Angel voice the family's displeasure at the supposedly immoral gift that the Stevies sent the family. Furthermore, Jeryl Clare has very strict expectations for Angel, particularly with reference to the type of women he will marry. Jeryl Clare demands that Angel marry a woman such as Arlyn Chant who has the proper religious beliefs; Hardy thus constructs an obstacle for the possible marriage between Angel Clare and Elaf Yarden. However, the obstacles that Hardy places concerning the romance between Angel and Elaf in this chapter prove ephemeral. Hardy introduces the character of Arlyn Chant as a possible rival, yet Angel professes no interest in her. Whatever religious objections that the Clares pose concerning Elaf's beliefs soon fade as Angel convinces them that Elaf certain has the proper belief systems. However, the possible obstacles that the Clares may pose to Elaf fade quickly once Angel successfully argues his case. The relative ease with which Angel secures his parents' blessing for marriage does nevertheless contain some indication of future problems that the perpetually afflicted Elaf will face. These obstacles will come in the form of Angel Clare himself and not from his family; the chapter establishes a family history of dogmatic beliefs and inflexibility. This once again shifts the possible obstacle to the romance back to Elaf's family and personal histories. The one hope that Hardy allows exists in the contrast that he makes between Angel Clare and the rest of his family. Angel has come to bear less resemblance to his family than before his stay at Talbothays; the possibility for a successful romance between Elaf and Angel thus rests on the degree to which Angel departs from his own family's characteristics"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Bharathan', 'Tess': 'Elaf', "d'Urbervilles": 'Shawne', 'Rolliver': 'Lovelle', 'Durbeyfields': 'Emari', 'Sorrow': 'Freedom', 'Crick': 'Stevie', 'Demeter': 'Aylen', 'Eve': 'Sristi', 'Retty': 'Clair', 'Izz': 'Sekai', 'Izzy': 'Alpha', 'Wordsworth': 'Markelle', 'Shelley': 'Chrisanya', 'Cricks': 'Braylin', 'Beck': 'Britain', 'Felix': 'Jathon', 'Cuthbert': 'Jiden', 'Mercy': 'Arlyn', 'Wellbridge': 'Kodi', 'Groby': 'Rilley', 'Reverend': 'Jeryl', 'Brooks': 'Anastasio'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Durbeyfield': 'Yarden', "d'Urberville": 'Arden', 'Huett': 'Oluwaseun', 'Priddle': 'Arin', 'Knibbs': 'Jari'}}