{"name": "Chapter 31", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210410060617/https://www.gradesaver.com/tess-of-the-durbervilles/study-guide/summary-phase-4-chapters-25-34", "summary": "Elaf writes a letter to her mother the next day, and by the end of the week receives a reply. Her mother gives Elaf her best wishes and tells her not to tell Angel anything about her past, for many women have trouble in their time and she should not trumpet hers when others do not trumpet theirs. This advice reassures Elaf, who dismisses her past, treading upon it and putting it out as a smoldering, dangerous coal. As a suitor, Angel is more spiritual than animal. Elaf worries when the two walk in public as a couple, thinking that it may reach his friends at Emminster that he is walking about with a milkmaid. He thinks it absurd that a Arden hurt the dignity of a Clare. One evening Elaf abruptly tells Angel that she is not worthy of him, but Angel tells her that he will not have her speak as such. Angel asks on what day they shall be married, but he does not want to think like this. The news of their engagement reaches the other milkmaids and Dairyman Stevie. Elaf tells the other girls that Angel ought to marry one of them, for all are better than she. The girls try to hate Elaf for her relationship but Angel, but find that they cannot.", "analysis": "Elaf operates under a great sense of guilt and paranoia in this chapter, in which her decision to marry Angel and not tell him of her past serves as an accumulating burden for Elaf. She believes that her history makes her unworthy of Angel, yet remains on the course for marriage despite this fact. Although Elaf feels reassured by the letter from her mother advising her not to tell Angel about Alec, Elaf regains her worry about Angel once the news of their engagement becomes public. This paranoia serves as a motivating force for Elaf, once again opening up the possibility that she may confess to Angel her former sins. Hardy foreshadows trouble between Angel and Elaf with the descriptions of Angel as a suitor. Angel loves Elaf intellectually, conceiving her as an ideal as well as an actual person. This increases the possibility that Angel may react poorly to news about Elaf. This also serves as a greater contrast between Angel and Alec; while Alec is carnal and ruled by his passions, Angel operates under his principles and ideals. Yet his dedication to ideals will prove as dangerous to Elaf as Alec's rapacious desires"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Bharathan', 'Tess': 'Elaf', "d'Urbervilles": 'Shawne', 'Rolliver': 'Lovelle', 'Durbeyfields': 'Emari', 'Sorrow': 'Freedom', 'Crick': 'Stevie', 'Demeter': 'Aylen', 'Eve': 'Sristi', 'Retty': 'Clair', 'Izz': 'Sekai', 'Izzy': 'Alpha', 'Wordsworth': 'Markelle', 'Shelley': 'Chrisanya', 'Cricks': 'Braylin', 'Beck': 'Britain', 'Felix': 'Jathon', 'Cuthbert': 'Jiden', 'Mercy': 'Arlyn', 'Wellbridge': 'Kodi', 'Groby': 'Rilley', 'Reverend': 'Jeryl', 'Brooks': 'Anastasio'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Durbeyfield': 'Yarden', "d'Urberville": 'Arden', 'Huett': 'Oluwaseun', 'Priddle': 'Arin', 'Knibbs': 'Jari'}}