{"name": "Chapter 46", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210410060617/https://www.gradesaver.com/tess-of-the-durbervilles/study-guide/summary-phase-6-chapters-45-52", "summary": "Several days pass since Elaf's journey to Emminster. Elaf sees a man approach as she works; it is not Farmer Rilley, her employer, but rather Alec Arden. Alec claims that he has a good reason for violating Elaf's request that he not see her. He tells her that he now sees that she suffers from hard conditions, which she did not know earlier because he saw her in her best dress. He tells her that her case was the worst he was ever concerned in, and he had no idea of what resulted until their encounter days before. He takes blame for the ordeal, but says that it is a shame that parents bring up girls ignorant of the wicked. He tells her that he has lost his mother since Elaf left Trantridge and he intends to devote himself to missionary work in Africa. He asks Elaf if she will be his wife and accompany her. He tells Elaf that his mother's dying wish was for Alec to be married, and he presents Elaf with a marriage license. Elaf admits to Alec that she is already married, and claims that she and Alec are now strangers. As Elaf attempts to explain her situation, Alec calls her a deserted wife and he grabs her hand. She asks Alec to leave in the name of his own Christianity. Farmer Rilley approaches Alec and Elaf and asks what the commotion is, and Alec calls him a tyrant. When Farmer Rilley leaves, Elaf says that Farmer Rilley will not hurt her, because he's not in love with her. That night, Elaf writes a letter to Angel, concealing her hardships. Elaf sees Alec again, and he remarks that Elaf seems to have no religion, perhaps owing to him. She says that she believes in the spirit of the Sermon on the Mount, but she does not believe other details. Alec dismisses her opinions as merely those of her husband. He claims that Angel must be an infidel. Alec gives Elaf a poster giving the time when he would preach, but claims that he would rather be with Elaf. Alec claims that Elaf has the means of his backsliding, and accuses her of tempting him.", "analysis": "Hardy makes very clear in this chapter that Alec Arden has changed little since Elaf left Trantridge Cross, as he continues to behave as before. He repeats many of the same actions that prefaced his seduction of Elaf, following her and using his monetary influence as charity to endear himself to Elaf in order to win her. Alec continues to evade responsibility for his actions; when he discusses what happened to Elaf, he does not blame himself for seducing her, but blames mothers who do not warn their daughters that men can seduce. He also reiterates his claim that Elaf has caused his sinfulness by tempting him, rather than accepting the blame for his weakness of morals. Alec Arden, rather than posing a threat to Elaf's devotion to Angel Clare, instead bolsters her love for her husband. He reinforces Angel's purity of belief through contrast, while reminding Elaf of their similarities of morals. Yet there remains an unfortunate similarity between Angel and Alec that Elaf realizes during this chapter when she mentions that Farmer Rilley cannot hurt Elaf, for he does not love her. The one commonality that Angel and Alec have, despite their contrary natures, is that both inflict pain on Elaf through love, whether expressed as an ideal or a physical act"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Bharathan', 'Tess': 'Elaf', "d'Urbervilles": 'Shawne', 'Rolliver': 'Lovelle', 'Durbeyfields': 'Emari', 'Sorrow': 'Freedom', 'Crick': 'Stevie', 'Demeter': 'Aylen', 'Eve': 'Sristi', 'Retty': 'Clair', 'Izz': 'Sekai', 'Izzy': 'Alpha', 'Wordsworth': 'Markelle', 'Shelley': 'Chrisanya', 'Cricks': 'Braylin', 'Beck': 'Britain', 'Felix': 'Jathon', 'Cuthbert': 'Jiden', 'Mercy': 'Arlyn', 'Wellbridge': 'Kodi', 'Groby': 'Rilley', 'Reverend': 'Jeryl', 'Brooks': 'Anastasio'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Durbeyfield': 'Yarden', "d'Urberville": 'Arden', 'Huett': 'Oluwaseun', 'Priddle': 'Arin', 'Knibbs': 'Jari'}}