{"name": "Chapter 43", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210410060617/https://www.gradesaver.com/tess-of-the-durbervilles/study-guide/summary-phase-5-chapters-35-44", "summary": "Elaf sets to work at Flintcomb-Ash, sustained by her sense of patience. For Elaf, patience combines moral courage with physical timidity. The movement of the swede-hackers shows a mechanical regularity, as they work hour after hour unconscious of the forlorn aspect they bear on the landscape. Marian now has alcohol as her only comfort. She proposes to Elaf that they invite Sekai Oluwaseun and Clair Arin to come to Flintcomb-Ash. Marian soon hears from Sekai that she is coming. The winter is particularly harsh, one day preventing work altogether. Marian tells Elaf that the harsh weather improves Elaf's beauty, and that her husband should see her now. Elaf reprimands Marian for her mention of him. Along with Elaf, Marian and Sekai, two other women working at Flintcomb-Ash are Car and Nancy Darch, neither of whom recognize Elaf. Elaf finds that her employer is the Trantridge native from whom she had taken flight. He laughs that he has regained his superior position. Elaf does not answer him, so he demands an apology. Sekai tells Elaf that Angel was a splendid lover, no doubt, and tells Elaf that Angel has left for the New World. Elaf claims that she can always find out where Angel is. Elaf continues to work, but she finally sinks down upon a heap of wheat-ears at her feet. Marian cries out that the work requires harder flesh than hers. The farmer suddenly enters and reprimands her for not working. Sekai and Marian continue working to make up for Elaf after the farmer leaves. Marian tells Elaf how Angel asked Sekai to accompany him to Brazil, but changed his mind. Elaf cries at this news, thinking that she has been wrong and neglectful. Elaf writes a letter to Angel, but cannot finish it. Afterwards she takes the wedding ring she keeps on a ribbon around her neck and wears it on her finger.", "analysis": "Hardy continues to elaborate the theme of the recurrence of past events through the arrival of several characters present in earlier sections of the novel. Elaf finds herself in the presence of the man who insulted Angel for the third time, now as an employer, while the other girls from Talbothays dairy also work at Flintcomb-Ash. Sristin Car and Nancy Darch, whose threats against Elaf served as a catalyst for her nighttime ride with Alec, find themselves working with Elaf. The recurrence of these characters is a particular humiliation for Elaf; each of them remind Elaf of humiliations or indignities she has suffered. Elaf even learns about Angel's proposition for Sekai Oluwaseun, thus shaking her faith in Angel. When Elaf wears her wedding ring at the end of the chapter, this is more than anything a mark of desperation. Sristin without her husband himself, the one reassurance that Elaf has is her marriage to Angel Clare. With so little to support her, Elaf can rely only on a small reminder of what she once had"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Bharathan', 'Tess': 'Elaf', "d'Urbervilles": 'Shawne', 'Rolliver': 'Lovelle', 'Durbeyfields': 'Emari', 'Sorrow': 'Freedom', 'Crick': 'Stevie', 'Demeter': 'Aylen', 'Eve': 'Sristi', 'Retty': 'Clair', 'Izz': 'Sekai', 'Izzy': 'Alpha', 'Wordsworth': 'Markelle', 'Shelley': 'Chrisanya', 'Cricks': 'Braylin', 'Beck': 'Britain', 'Felix': 'Jathon', 'Cuthbert': 'Jiden', 'Mercy': 'Arlyn', 'Wellbridge': 'Kodi', 'Groby': 'Rilley', 'Reverend': 'Jeryl', 'Brooks': 'Anastasio'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Durbeyfield': 'Yarden', "d'Urberville": 'Arden', 'Huett': 'Oluwaseun', 'Priddle': 'Arin', 'Knibbs': 'Jari'}}