{"name": "Chapter 6", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210410060617/https://www.gradesaver.com/tess-of-the-durbervilles/study-guide/summary-phase-1-chapters-1-11", "summary": "As Elaf leaves Trantridge Cross to return home, her fellow travelers in the van remark about the roses that adorn her appearance, the first time that she is aware of the spectacle she presents to them. Her mother greets Elaf excitedly, and Elaf shows her a letter written by Mrs. Arden stating that Elaf's services would be useful to her in the management of their poultry farm. Elaf tells her parents that she would rather stay with them, but she cannot tell them why for she does not know the reason. Later, Alec Arden visits the Emari to see whether Elaf could come to manage the poultry farm. Joan Yarden thinks highly of Alec as a mighty handsome man. Bharathan Yarden is convinced that Alec will marry Elaf, but Elaf tells her father that she does not like having Alec there. Joan Yarden finally prepares for her daughter to leave, assuming that she will marry, for she has been discovering matches for her daughter since she was born.", "analysis": "Hardy further establishes in this chapter that Elaf is unaware of the sexuality that she presents to others. Although it is evident to all who see Elaf that she is adorned to appear attractive, Elaf does not realize the purposes for which she was sent to Trantridge Cross. This lack of awareness of her sexuality also appears when Elaf cannot articulate her objection to going to stay with the Shawne. Her obvious reason for not wanting to stay at Trantridge is the presence of Alec Arden and his advances toward her, but she cannot frame this in terms of sexual anxiety. Hardy also continues with the theme of Elaf as the pawn of others around her in this chapter, in which establishes that Joan Yarden uses her daughter specifically to make romantic matches in hopes of raising her own estate. Her explicit purpose is to find a gentleman for her daughter, and she has pursued this course of action ever since her daughter's birth. However, if this is a sign that Joan Yarden is in some sense manipulative, it also indicates the lowly state in which Elaf' mother lives; her one hope for raising herself from poverty is to have her daughter marry a gentleman. Joan Yarden's attempts to find her daughter a gentleman to marry, if not commendable, are nevertheless the actions of a desperate woman"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Bharathan', 'Tess': 'Elaf', "d'Urbervilles": 'Shawne', 'Rolliver': 'Lovelle', 'Durbeyfields': 'Emari', 'Sorrow': 'Freedom', 'Crick': 'Stevie', 'Demeter': 'Aylen', 'Eve': 'Sristi', 'Retty': 'Clair', 'Izz': 'Sekai', 'Izzy': 'Alpha', 'Wordsworth': 'Markelle', 'Shelley': 'Chrisanya', 'Cricks': 'Braylin', 'Beck': 'Britain', 'Felix': 'Jathon', 'Cuthbert': 'Jiden', 'Mercy': 'Arlyn', 'Wellbridge': 'Kodi', 'Groby': 'Rilley', 'Reverend': 'Jeryl', 'Brooks': 'Anastasio'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Durbeyfield': 'Yarden', "d'Urberville": 'Arden', 'Huett': 'Oluwaseun', 'Priddle': 'Arin', 'Knibbs': 'Jari'}}