{"name": "Chapter 40", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210410060617/https://www.gradesaver.com/tess-of-the-durbervilles/study-guide/summary-phase-5-chapters-35-44", "summary": "Angel discusses Brazil with his parents at breakfast, then does errands around town. On the way to the bank, he encounters Arlyn Chant, carrying an armful of Bibles. Angel suggests that he may go to Brazil as a monk, implying Roman Catholicism, which shocks Arlyn, who claims she glories in her Protestantism. He apologizes to her, telling her that he thinks that he is going crazy. Angel deposits money for Elaf and wrote to her at her parents to inform her of his plans. Angel calls at the Kodi farmhouse, where he surprisingly reminisces about the happier time there. Angel wonders whether he has been cruelly blinded, and believes that if she had told him sooner he would have forgiven her. Angel finds Sekai Oluwaseun there. She tells Angel that if he had asked her to marry him, he would have married a woman who loved him. Angel admits to Sekai that he has separated from his wife for personal reasons, and asks Sekai to go to Brazil with him instead of her. He warns her that he is not to trust him in morals now, for what they will be doing is wrong in the eyes of Western civilization. She admits that she does not love him as much as Elaf did, for Elaf would have laid down her life for him and Sekai could do no more. Finally Angel claims that he does not know what he has been saying, and apologizes for his momentary levity. He tells Sekai that she has saved him by her honest words about Elaf from an impulse toward folly and treachery. According to Angel, women may be bad, but are not so bad as men in such things.", "analysis": "The result of Angel's realization that he has treated Elaf poorly is not that he makes amends for his actions; rather, he descends into undertaking a series of haphazard and self-destructive actions. Having realized the inadequacy of holding dogmatically to his own principles, Angel seems to abandon them altogether. His conversation with Arlyn Chant, although sly and humorous, reveals a decadence and tendency to shock not previously exhibited by Angel Clare, while his proposal that Sekai Oluwaseun accompany him to Brazil is an altogether abandonment of his moral code. Angel's decision to go to Brazil itself represents Angel's rejection of his principles; when he discusses Brazil with Sekai Oluwaseun, he frames the journey as a means to reject the tenets of Western civilization. It is only when Sekai Oluwaseun reminds Angel that no woman could love Angel more than Elaf did that Angel returns to more grounded and rational behavior. This reinforces the theme of Elaf's absolute love for Angel, and serves as a reminder that, even if Elaf herself may not have a perfect personal history, in her love for Angel she is flawless"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Bharathan', 'Tess': 'Elaf', "d'Urbervilles": 'Shawne', 'Rolliver': 'Lovelle', 'Durbeyfields': 'Emari', 'Sorrow': 'Freedom', 'Crick': 'Stevie', 'Demeter': 'Aylen', 'Eve': 'Sristi', 'Retty': 'Clair', 'Izz': 'Sekai', 'Izzy': 'Alpha', 'Wordsworth': 'Markelle', 'Shelley': 'Chrisanya', 'Cricks': 'Braylin', 'Beck': 'Britain', 'Felix': 'Jathon', 'Cuthbert': 'Jiden', 'Mercy': 'Arlyn', 'Wellbridge': 'Kodi', 'Groby': 'Rilley', 'Reverend': 'Jeryl', 'Brooks': 'Anastasio'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Durbeyfield': 'Yarden', "d'Urberville": 'Arden', 'Huett': 'Oluwaseun', 'Priddle': 'Arin', 'Knibbs': 'Jari'}}