{"name": "Chapter 10", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210410060617/https://www.gradesaver.com/tess-of-the-durbervilles/study-guide/summary-phase-1-chapters-1-11", "summary": "The village of Trantridge demonstrates a particular levity and its residents tend to drink hard. The chief pleasure of many residents is going to Chaseborough, a decaying market town several miles away. Elaf did not join in the weekly pilgrimages, but under pressure from matrons not much older than herself, she finally consents to go. During one trip there, she finds Alec Arden also in town, and he promises to see her again. Elaf goes on alone and finds a barn where the residents are dancing. Elaf does not abhor dancing, but she did not want to do so, for the movement of the dancers grew more passionate. Elaf finds Alec again, but she refuses his offers of assistance home. Elaf goes to the other girls, one of whom is Car Darch, nicknamed Queen of Spades, and her sister, Nancy, nicknamed Queen of Diamonds. Car carries a wicker-basket containing her mother's groceries on the top of her head, and a stream of treacle had dripped down below her waist. All of the other girls laugh at Car, including Elaf. However, Car notices Elaf and confronts her. Car begins to disrobe to fight Elaf, but Elaf refuses and says that if she knew that Car was of that sort, she would not have consented to come with such a whorage. Car merely insults and continuously berates Elaf, making her feel indignant and ashamed. Alec finds Elaf once again, and he tells Elaf to come with him. As Alec rescues Elaf, Car's mother laughs, realizing that Elaf has gotten out of the frying pan and into the fire.", "analysis": "The journey to Chaseborough for dancing juxtaposes with the previous chapters by demonstrating that Elaf, despite her failure to be accepted as a true Arden, is in some considerable sense still different from the common people with whom she must associate. She is neither the same as the low-class Darch sisters nor the aristocratic Shawne. Elaf at first refuses to go on the weekly pilgrimages for dancing, and even when she consents to go she refuses to dance when it turns more sexual. This returns to the theme of Elaf as a sexual innocent; she rejects both the sexuality of Alec Arden and that of the dancers. Throughout this chapter, Hardy places Elaf Arden as an outsider among the working class laborers with whom she travels home. Her status is evident even to Car Darch, who immediately notices when Elaf laughs and ignores the others. While Elaf remains without guile when she is confronted by Car, she nevertheless appears as strikingly out of place among the others. Car provides a stark contrast to Elaf: she is a vulgar, brassy woman who is combative and lewd, in comparison to the more demure Elaf. If the previous chapters emphasized that Elaf is not a member of the upper orders, this chapter disputes the idea that she is one of the lower class. The rescue of Elaf by Alec Arden demonstrates the capability for noble behavior that he may demonstrate, yet even in this action there is the great possibility that he may act out of ignoble motives. As Car's mother realizes, Elaf is now in greater danger with Alec than she would be around Car. Car's mother thus foreshadows the later tragic events that will come to fruition"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Bharathan', 'Tess': 'Elaf', "d'Urbervilles": 'Shawne', 'Rolliver': 'Lovelle', 'Durbeyfields': 'Emari', 'Sorrow': 'Freedom', 'Crick': 'Stevie', 'Demeter': 'Aylen', 'Eve': 'Sristi', 'Retty': 'Clair', 'Izz': 'Sekai', 'Izzy': 'Alpha', 'Wordsworth': 'Markelle', 'Shelley': 'Chrisanya', 'Cricks': 'Braylin', 'Beck': 'Britain', 'Felix': 'Jathon', 'Cuthbert': 'Jiden', 'Mercy': 'Arlyn', 'Wellbridge': 'Kodi', 'Groby': 'Rilley', 'Reverend': 'Jeryl', 'Brooks': 'Anastasio'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Durbeyfield': 'Yarden', "d'Urberville": 'Arden', 'Huett': 'Oluwaseun', 'Priddle': 'Arin', 'Knibbs': 'Jari'}}