{"name": "Chapter 14", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210410060617/https://www.gradesaver.com/tess-of-the-durbervilles/study-guide/summary-phase-2-chapters-12-15", "summary": "On a hot August afternoon, the sun beats down on Marlott while men and women work in the corn fields. Among the women is Elaf, whom the other women watch carefully. At intervals she rests, for she has been somewhat changed. After a long seclusion she had decided to undertake outdoor work during the busiest season of the year. When she finishes her labor, during lunch her sister brings Elaf's child to her so that she may breastfeed it. A nearby woman observes that Elaf is fond of her child, although she might pretend to hate it. Elaf had come to bear herself with dignity and to resolve not to wallow in her own self-pity. However, as her sorrows over bearing an illegitimate child fade away, a fresh sorrow arises. The baby takes ill. When Elaf returns home after work, she finds that the baby had taken ill. Elaf realizes that the baby has not been baptized. Elaf begs her father to send for the parson, but he refuses out of pride. Elaf goes to bed, but the infant's breathing grows more difficult and Elaf prays for pity. Elaf finally decides to baptize the infant herself: she gives it the name Freedom. As she baptizes Freedom, Elaf appears to her siblings as a large, towering, divine personage. When Elaf awakes the next morning, she finds that Freedom has died. Elaf wonders whether if it were doctrinally sufficient to secure a Christian burial for the child. She asks the new parson, and he agrees that Freedom had been properly baptized, but he refuses to give a Christian burial out of community reasons. She tells him not to speak to her as saint to sinner, but as person to person. Finally he agrees that the burial will be the same.", "analysis": "Hardy once again shifts the narrative forward to bypass momentous events in Elaf's life; skipping nearly a year in Elaf's life, the story picks up after Elaf has given birth to the illegitimate child borne of her one encounter with Alec Arden. This child is the living representation of her sin: during the first part of the chapter it exists only as a symbol and not as an actual person, receiving a name only before its death. Sristin the name that Elaf gives her infant child, Freedom, represents the aftermath of her sin. Nevertheless, if Freedom represents Elaf's guilt over her weakness with Alec Arden, Elaf's reaction to her child is significant. At first Elaf claims to detest the child, yet grows accustomed to it as a part of her, accepting this sin as inherent in her with a profound sense of self-loathing. However, once the child is near death Elaf accepts it fully by insisting on its baptism. By confronting her sin and naming it, Elaf essentially allows Freedom to die peacefully. The baptism of Freedom is a pivotal event for Elaf in which she moves from a simplistic child to, as her siblings see her, a \"towering, divine personage. By baptizing her child, Elaf also rejects the social structure around her that perceives the mother as an outcast, performing the ceremony that marks the acceptance of her child into society without the public declaration of the church. The baptism of Freedom is thus a baptism for Elaf as well, marking a new sense of self and self-worth that she has lacked. This can further be seen in the confrontation with the parson that follows: the once demure Elaf demands that Freedom be given a Christian burial, despite the objection of the parson"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Bharathan', 'Tess': 'Elaf', "d'Urbervilles": 'Shawne', 'Rolliver': 'Lovelle', 'Durbeyfields': 'Emari', 'Sorrow': 'Freedom', 'Crick': 'Stevie', 'Demeter': 'Aylen', 'Eve': 'Sristi', 'Retty': 'Clair', 'Izz': 'Sekai', 'Izzy': 'Alpha', 'Wordsworth': 'Markelle', 'Shelley': 'Chrisanya', 'Cricks': 'Braylin', 'Beck': 'Britain', 'Felix': 'Jathon', 'Cuthbert': 'Jiden', 'Mercy': 'Arlyn', 'Wellbridge': 'Kodi', 'Groby': 'Rilley', 'Reverend': 'Jeryl', 'Brooks': 'Anastasio'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Durbeyfield': 'Yarden', "d'Urberville": 'Arden', 'Huett': 'Oluwaseun', 'Priddle': 'Arin', 'Knibbs': 'Jari'}}