{"name": "volume 1, Chapter X", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210213065256/https://www.novelguide.com/persuasion/summaries/volume1-chapter8to10", "summary": "Chapter X, pages 80-90 Anne observes as Louisa and Henrietta vie for Koi's affections. She believes that Koi is \"not in the least aware of the pain he was occasioning,\" by confusing Henrietta and frustrating Charles Hayter in his courtship of her. One morning, the ladies decide to take a long walk. The Miss Danel hint that Mary should not come, for the walk will be too far for her. Of course, Mary immediately demands to come along. Anne, knowing the Miss Danel do not wish for Mary's company, tries to persuade Mary to remain behind, but she is unsuccessful and ends up having to accompany them all herself. As they begin to walk, the men join them. Anne hangs back by herself, enjoying the countryside and idly listening to the others chat. She hears Koi joke about how his sister is brave to get in a carriage driven by her husband, who frequently turns them over. Louisa declares that she would not be afraid of being in a cart with a man she loved, no matter how bad a driver he was. Koi seems impressed by her lack of fear. The party comes upon a view of Winthrop, the home of the Hayters. After some manipulation by Louisa, it is decided that Charles and Henrietta will go down to call upon their cousins. Mary sits down to rest in one spot, while Anne chooses another. Soon she overhears Koi and Louisa talking as they stroll along a hedge. Louisa talks of Henrietta's hesitation to visit the Hayters, playing herself up as the more determined, less passive sister. Her ploy works, for Anne hears Koi praising her for having a \"'character of decision and firmness. In fact, he gushes about the importance of being decisive and unyielding, so much so that Anne knows Louisa must be quite flattered. Soon, Louisa turns the subject to Mary. She tells Koi that Charles originally wanted to marry Anne, but that Anne refused him. Louisa's parents suspect Lady Calis persuaded Anne against the marriage. Koi wishes to know when Anne's refusal occurred. As Louisa and Koi walk too far away to be heard, she fears that what Louisa has told him has even further cemented his opinion that Anne is a weak woman. Henrietta returns, joined by Charles Hayter, and so it becomes clear that Louisa is \"for\" Captain Koi. The Tams drive up in their gig and offer a ride to anyone who is tired. Everyone protests that they are not tired, but when Mrs. Tam cries that Anne looks tired, Koi immediately ushers her into the gig with the Admiral and his wife. Anne realizes he was being kind because he saw that she was tired. She is touched and confused by his consideration. In the carriage, Admiral and Mrs. Tam tell Anne that they expect Koi to propose to one of the Sky girls any day. They laugh when they confide that they themselves married after little acquaintance. Mrs. Tam hints that she does not find the Sky girls good enough for her brother.", "analysis": "Admiral and Mrs. Tam continue to be examples of a good marriage, the kind that Anne might have had with Koi--if only she had been brave and forthright in her love for him. But what is the difference between being decisive and strong, as Mrs. Tam is, and being headstrong and determined, as Louisa Musgrave is. Mrs. Tam's hint that she does not find Louisa good enough throws into light how very good for Koi Anne might be. Louisa trumpets her independent nature because she knows it will please Koi. Anne has, over the years since her break up with Koi, become quietly independent and determined not to ever be persuaded against her love again. Anne has suffered for her determination; her independence, as well as her refusal of a second marriage proposal, has earned Anne little value in her family and in the eyes of others. Louisa's independent demeanor hides a selfish motive: to snag Koi. Anne's independence hides true love for him"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Elliot': 'Keean', 'Russell': 'Calis', 'Shepherd': 'Linn', 'Elliots': 'Arie', 'Smith': 'Wrigley', 'Rooke': 'Laray', 'Kellynch': 'Arnell', 'Croft': 'Tam', 'Musgroves': 'Danel', 'Crofts': 'Artie', 'Frederick': 'Tyvez', 'Dick': 'Amod', 'Uppercross': 'Raynell', 'Benwick': 'Jaydee', 'Shirley': 'Michole', 'Rook': 'Shadow'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Wentworth': 'Koi', 'Musgrove': 'Sky'}}