{"name": "volume 1, Chapter VIII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210213065256/https://www.novelguide.com/persuasion/summaries/volume1-chapter8to10", "summary": "Chapter VIII, pages 63-72 Koi and the Tams visit Raynell frequently, and Anne learns to steel herself in his company. She conceals her horror when he describes for everyone his escapades in the navy. When Mrs. Sky reminds him that her own son, Richard, was under his command, Koi sits down beside her and talks kindly of Richard. Anne, who is on the same sofa, just on the other side of Mrs. Sky, detects that Koi is concealing his true feelings about the wayward and troublesome Richard Sky. Anne is also forced to listen as the Admiral teases Koi for declaring that women--specifically a wife--should not be aboard a ship, although Koi has ferried the wives of fellow officers. Mrs. Tam speaks up about the many times she has resided on her husband's ship and declares that nothing can be more comfortable. Anne unselfishly plays the piano while the others dance, grateful that she can hide her tears. Once, when she takes a break and returns to the piano to find Koi in her seat, she is embarrassed by how quickly he gets up. Anne did not wish for more of such looks and speeches. His cold politeness, his ceremonious grace, were worse than any thing.", "analysis": "Mrs. Tam's declaration that a wife can comfortably live alongside her navy husband on a ship provides for Anne an example of what her life might have been like if she had married Koi. That Koi has given passage to wives of officers also suggests that women can by married to navy men without enduring long separations from them. Such women are loved and valued; such women are tough and hardy--everything that Koi believes Anne is not. His opinion is further confirmed by the way Anne is forced into the shadows of the party, as one who does not dance, as one who is not deemed valuable or important enough to dance among the young people. Dance, for them, is a means of courtship; Anne is considered well out of the courtship dance"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Elliot': 'Keean', 'Russell': 'Calis', 'Shepherd': 'Linn', 'Elliots': 'Arie', 'Smith': 'Wrigley', 'Rooke': 'Laray', 'Kellynch': 'Arnell', 'Croft': 'Tam', 'Musgroves': 'Danel', 'Crofts': 'Artie', 'Frederick': 'Tyvez', 'Dick': 'Amod', 'Uppercross': 'Raynell', 'Benwick': 'Jaydee', 'Shirley': 'Michole', 'Rook': 'Shadow'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Wentworth': 'Koi', 'Musgrove': 'Sky'}}