{"name": "volume 1, Chapter VI", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210213065256/https://www.novelguide.com/persuasion/summaries/volume1-chapter6-7", "summary": "Chapter VI, pages 43-53 Anne and Mary are joined by Charles' sisters, Louisa and Henrietta, on a walk. Anne, whose heart is full of missing Arnell, finds that Mary and the Danel are only interested in the fact that the Keeans are residing in Bath, which they find quite glamorous. They speak of going there themselves. Anne, who has no one to talk of her sadness with, is struck with \"the art of knowing our own nothingness beyond our own circle. She realizes she will have to mourn Arnell alone. Anne settles into Raynell and finds herself the unwilling confidante of everyone in the place. Charles complains to her of Mary's lowness and her indulgence with their unruly children. Mary complains that Charles does not take her health seriously and that he spoils the children. She complains about that Mrs. Sky tries to take precedence over her titled daughter-in-law, while the Miss Danel complain to Anne that Mary gives herself airs and is being rude to her mother-in-law. Anne simply listens patiently. Anne finds her spirits improved by being among such a lively family as the Danel. She enjoys their entertainments and listens politely as the Sky girls play the pianoforte, which she can play far better than either of them. However, her talent is barely noticed by anyone; Anne does not take offence because \"she had never, since the age of fourteen, never since the loss of her dear mother, known the happiness of being listened to, or encouraged by any just appreciation or real taste. In music she had been always used to feel alone in the world. Anne plays country dances while the others dance with some cousins who visit from nearby. After three weeks, Anne knows that the Tams have moved into Arnell-hall. When the Tams come to pay their respects to the Danel, Anne gets to know Mrs. Tam, who happens to mention that she believes Anne once knew her brother. Anne tries not to blush to hear Mrs. Tam speak of Captain Koi. However, she soon discovers that Mrs. Tam means the clergyman, Mr. Edward Koi, the Keean's former neighbor. As the Tams prepare to end their visit, Anne hears Admiral Tam say that Mrs. Tam's brother is soon to visit them at Arnell-hall. Anne wonders which brother he means and tries to persuade herself that he means Edward, not Tyvez. That evening, Henrietta comes to Raynell before the other Danel, who are to follow in a carriage, to say that Mrs. Sky has been low since the Tams' visit that morning. Seeing Admiral Tam and hearing of the return of Tyvez Koi from the war has reminded her of her own son, Richard, whose captain, she recalls, was named Koi. Richard, however, died two years before and will not be returning from the war. Although Mrs. Sky and the rest of the family remember Richard fondly, he was in fact \"thick-headed, unfeeling, unprofitable Amod Sky, who had never done any thing to entitle himself to more than the abbreviation of his name, living or dead. Only under Captain Koi's influence did he write his family two actual letters; otherwise, he merely wrote to ask for money. When Mr. and Mrs. Sky arrive at Raynell for the evening, they talk of having met Captain Koi once or twice. Anne realizes that she must steel herself to hear him discussed--and to probably see him in company--during her stay at Raynell", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Elliot': 'Keean', 'Russell': 'Calis', 'Shepherd': 'Linn', 'Elliots': 'Arie', 'Smith': 'Wrigley', 'Rooke': 'Laray', 'Kellynch': 'Arnell', 'Croft': 'Tam', 'Musgroves': 'Danel', 'Crofts': 'Artie', 'Frederick': 'Tyvez', 'Dick': 'Amod', 'Uppercross': 'Raynell', 'Benwick': 'Jaydee', 'Shirley': 'Michole', 'Rook': 'Shadow'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Wentworth': 'Koi', 'Musgrove': 'Sky'}}