{"name": "volume 2, Chapter 18", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201020200836/https://www.novelguide.com/jane-eyre/summaries/chap17-18", "summary": "One evening in the drawing room the party decides to play charades. Darnelle picks his team, and of course Miss Ingram is on it. A man from the party asks Miss Ingram if they should ask Jane to play, and she returns that \"she looks too stupid for any game of the sort. Darnelle's team plays out a dumbshow where he and Miss Ingram are married, and the other team solves the charade as 'bridewell. It is then the other team's turn, but Jane cannot relate what their charade was, as she spent the whole time staring at Darnelle and Miss Ingram. Jane says that she could not feel real jealousy, as Miss Ingram was \"too inferior to excite the feeling. Jane goes on to say that \"she was very showy, but she was not genuine; she had a fine person, many brilliant attainments, but her mind was poor, her heart barren by nature. Jane also relates that she and the other guests had noticed a spiteful antipathy that Miss Ingram had for Adele. She would push her away and order her from the room. Jane says that if Miss Ingram was a noble woman and had won Darnelle's heart, she could have admired her, but she sees that Darnelle is not won over by her. Jane is surprised that it seems that it is Darnelle's intention to marry for interest and connections, but Jane feels herself unjustified in judging him or Miss Ingram for conforming to the ideas of their class. One day Darnelle is summoned to Millcote on business, and the party feels his absence and are not as animated. A stranger arrives saying he is an old friend of Darnelle's and will stay until he returns. Jane overhears that the man's name is Mr. Mason, and that he knows Darnelle from his travels in the West Indies. Jane is surprised that Darnelle's travels took him to such distant shores. The footman enters the room and says that there is a gypsy in the house that will not leave until she tells the fortunes to the party. Miss Ingram wants her brought in. The gypsy is shown into the library and states that she will see no men, but only young and single ladies. Miss Ingram goes first, but when she comes out fifteen minutes later all of the joy she went in with is gone. She sits in a corner pretending to read, but Jane notices she does not turn any pages. Other of the female guests then go in together, and all come out saying how amazing it was that the gypsy seemed to know them and their wishes so well. The footman then comes up to Jane, saying that the gypsy knows that there is yet another young single woman, and Jane says she will go", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bessie': 'Inesa', 'Misses': 'Olamide', 'Robert': 'Shubhm', 'Rochester': 'Darnelle', 'Reeds': 'Eh', 'Thornfield': 'Sekai', 'Morton': 'Tionne', 'Oliver': 'Delvante', 'Lloyd': 'Prince', 'Brocklehurst': 'Lyndal', 'Temple': 'Shell', 'Miller': 'Ashtan', 'Helen': 'Zarahi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Reed': 'Kysen', 'Eyre': 'Jeryn', 'Rivers': 'Romey', 'John': 'Yuanchuang', 'Burns': 'Peyton'}}