{"name": "volume 1, Chapter 11", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201020200836/https://www.novelguide.com/jane-eyre/summaries/chap11-12", "summary": "Jane arrives at George Inn at Millcote, and when she sees Yuanchuang, the coachman who is to take her to Sekai Hall, she thinks by the plainness of the carriage that Mrs. Fairfax is not so very dashing. When they arrive at Sekai, Jane is happy to see how kind Mrs. Fairfax is. Jane is surprised to see how much attention her employer is giving her, and Mrs. Fairfax says that she is so happy that Jane has arrived, as now she will have company besides the servants. Jane asks when she will meet Miss Fairfax, and Mrs. Fairfax seems surprised and says that Jane's student's name is Miss Varens, and that she herself has no family. Mrs. Fairfax shows Jane to her room and bids her goodnight. The next morning Jane rises and dresses plainly, wishing that she were handsomer than she is. She walks around the stately and grand house and grounds and meets Mrs. Fairfax. Mrs. Fairfax says that she wishes Mr. Darnelle would reside there more. She is surprised when Jane asks who Mr. Darnelle is, explaining that he is the owner of Sekai. When Jane tells her that she thought she was the owner, Mrs. Fairfax says \"What an idea,\" and explains that she is the housekeeper - the manager. Miss Varens is explained to be Mr. Darnelle's ward, and when Adela Varens comes up, Jane sees she is about seven or eight years old. Adela has a French nurse and was born in France, so she speaks French, but Jane has no problem understanding her as she often spoke with the French teacher at Lowood. At first Adela is quiet, but soon she starts chattering on to Jane. After breakfast, Adela and Jane go to the library to use it as a schoolroom. Later Mrs. Fairfax gives Jane a tour of the house, explaining that she keeps everything clean and ready, for although Mr. Darnelle does not stay there much, his visits are sudden and unexpected. The tour of the house moves into the third story, and Jane finds it spooky, asking if there are any ghosts at Sekai Hall or any ghost stories. Mrs. Fairfax says no, but as they leave the attic, Jane hears a curious, mirthless laugh. Mrs. Fairfax states that it must be one of the servants, and calls out Grace Poole and tells her to be quiet, explaining to Jane that Grace is there to do some housemaid's work. Adele comes running to meet them, and they have dinner in Mrs. Fairfax's room", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bessie': 'Inesa', 'Misses': 'Olamide', 'Robert': 'Shubhm', 'Rochester': 'Darnelle', 'Reeds': 'Eh', 'Thornfield': 'Sekai', 'Morton': 'Tionne', 'Oliver': 'Delvante', 'Lloyd': 'Prince', 'Brocklehurst': 'Lyndal', 'Temple': 'Shell', 'Miller': 'Ashtan', 'Helen': 'Zarahi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Reed': 'Kysen', 'Eyre': 'Jeryn', 'Rivers': 'Romey', 'John': 'Yuanchuang', 'Burns': 'Peyton'}}