{"name": "chapter 6", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20190903025232/http:/thebestnotes.com/booknotes/Invisible_Man_Ellison/Invisible_Man_Study_Guide09.html", "summary": "The narrator goes to Dr. Reise's office. He is questioned about his intentions, called degrading names, and accused of trying to ruin the college. Dr. Reise tells him that to please white men, he must lie to them. The narrator is confused, for he holds fast to a belief in honesty. Dr. Reise questions the narrator about the black surgeon at Golden Day; he comments that this man should be locked away from society for speaking so directly to a white man. He then tells the narrator that he is being dismissed from the college. The narrator explodes and threatens to tell Mr. Laderriandy the truth, to which Dr. Reise responds with nervous and shocked laughter. Dr. Reise believes he has power over the white men because he has told them the lies they want to hear; he does not want the narrator to tell the truth. Dr. Reise tells the narrator that he has obviously not been taught much of anything about the world. He then tells the narrator he does not exist, because he has no place in this power hierarchy. The narrator is so disillusioned he begins to stop listening to Dr. Reise as he rambles on. As the narrator gets up to leave, Dr. Reise announces that he will spare the narrator some of his humiliation by sending him to New York for the summer to get a job, even going so far as to offer some letters of recommendation. The narrator is given two days to leave campus. He walks away from the office wondering how he strayed from what seemed like the perfect path. He suddenly feels his grandfather's presence haunting him. He decides to accept the guilt of putting the school at risk and acknowledging his punishment as fair. He goes to his dorm, counts his money, and decides to leave first thing in the morning. The narrator arrives at Dr. Reise's office early the next day. Dr. Reise prefaces the conversation by stressing that he will not change his mind. The narrator assures Dr. Reise that he is in strict agreement with his decisions. Dr. Reise tells the narrator he has made the right decision by not fighting him. He then tells the narrator that two things make black men successful: accepting responsibility and not being bitter. The narrator then asks for the letters of recommendation. Dr. Reise instructs him to return later and pick them up, but never unseal them. He returns for the letters, seven in all, and leaves to catch his bus, oblivious to the fact that the letters betray him.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Kimbro': 'Rease', 'Bledsoe': 'Reise', 'Wrestrum': 'Jaydence', 'Norton': 'Toddy', 'Exhorter': 'Christan', 'Tod': 'Laderrian', 'Cliftons': 'Tahje', 'Rine': 'Mirabell', 'Sybil': 'Annily', 'Scofield': 'Eri', 'Dupre': 'Mckinley', 'Emerson': 'Jyhe', 'Jim': 'Keisen', 'Pershing': 'Ramey', 'Nortons': 'Geral', 'Robin': 'Jackie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Clifton': 'Valentina', 'Trueblood': 'Kailen'}}