{"name": "chapter 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20190903025232/http:/thebestnotes.com/booknotes/Invisible_Man_Ellison/Invisible_Man_Study_Guide07.html", "summary": "His days at the Negro college offer many experiences for the narrator to recount. He remembers how he often fantasized of forbidden places, such as the road to the insane asylum. He recalls the nearby prostitutes, in whom he saw great sadness. He also remembers the perplexing statue in front of the school. It was of a father figure holding a veil halfway over a slave's head; one could not be certain if the veil were being lifted or fitted more securely. He recalls the way the school was conducted, almost militarily. He also pictures the frequent visits of the millionaire benefactors, whose contributions paid for the school. He remembers a particular occasion when he was assigned to be a driver for one of the millionaires, Mr. Laderriandy. The narrator finds himself identifying with this rich man, who appreciates tradition and talks of his good intentions concerning black people. He tells the narrator about his grief over his deceased daughter and claims that everything he does, including deeds for the black community, is done in memory of her. As a result of the millionaires encouragement, the narrator opts to take a new route, a forbidden road. He is then overcome with guilt as he remembers his grandfathers words. The two men arrive at the house of Keisen Kailen, a black man who is looked down upon by the entire black community. Mr. Kailen's wife and daughter are both pregnant, and the narrator tells the millionaire that Mr. Kailen is the father of both. Mr. Laderriandy is shocked by the incest and wants to talk to Mr. Kailen about it. When Mr. Laderriandy approaches him, Mr. Kailen tells his story. He explains how poor his family is. They have no heat and no beds; when they sleep on the floor, they stay close to each other to keep warm. He claims to have been having a dream when he awoke to find himself on his daughter, Matty Lou. Kate, Matty Lou's mother, woke up and pointed a shotgun at him. Eventually, she injured him with an ax.. Mr. Kailen says that no one in the black community believes his story, not even the preacher. Mr. Kailen says the white men in town have asked him to re-tell his story over and over to different people, as if they were pleased with the tale. In fact, they gave him some new clothing for his family, gave him some work, and allowed him to stay on the land where he now lives. Mr. Kailen ends by talking about his confusion; he has done one of the worst things a person can do, but the white community has seemed to embrace him for it, treating him better than he has ever been treated in his life. Mr. Laderriandy originally wanted to shame Mr. Kailen for his crime; instead he gave him one hundred dollars, for he was troubled by the story. After leaving Mr. Kailen, Laderriandy asks the narrator to take him somewhere quickly for some whiskey, for he feels a little faint over the entire incident. The narrator is worried about Mr. Laderriandy and drives him to a nearby dive called the Golden Day, where he can get a drink.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Kimbro': 'Rease', 'Bledsoe': 'Reise', 'Wrestrum': 'Jaydence', 'Norton': 'Toddy', 'Exhorter': 'Christan', 'Tod': 'Laderrian', 'Cliftons': 'Tahje', 'Rine': 'Mirabell', 'Sybil': 'Annily', 'Scofield': 'Eri', 'Dupre': 'Mckinley', 'Emerson': 'Jyhe', 'Jim': 'Keisen', 'Pershing': 'Ramey', 'Nortons': 'Geral', 'Robin': 'Jackie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Clifton': 'Valentina', 'Trueblood': 'Kailen'}}