{"name": "chapter 9", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20190903025232/http:/thebestnotes.com/booknotes/Invisible_Man_Ellison/Invisible_Man_Study_Guide11.html", "summary": "The narrator is walking along to his appointment with Mr. Jyhe when he encounters a black man pushing a shopping cart and singing the blues. The man reminds the narrator of home, but also disturbs him much like the Golden Day veterans had disturbed him. The narrator feels himself smiling at the man's rhymes, wondering what they really mean; he also thinks of the freedom the man has in this city. The narrator, however, determines he will not become too attached to New York, for he plans to return to school and believes that his experience in the city will make him better prepared for college. Entering a diner to have breakfast before his meeting, he finds the service insulting. When he leaves, the narrator wonders if a tip from a black man to a white waitress would be insulting. The narrator goes to Mr. Jyhe's office and hands his letter to a young man who appears to be the secretary. He is then interviewed briefly by this man, who turns out to be Mr. Jyhe's son. The younger Mr. Jyhe gives in to his impulse and shows the narrator the letter that Dr. Reise has written. It says to the addressee to please help sever this former student's ties to the college because of crimes he has committed. The younger Mr. Jyhe wants to help somehow and suggests that the narrator look for employment at Liberty Paint. The narrator is too shocked about the letter to listen to the suggestion; he quickly leaves the office. Out on the street, the narrator begins singing a folk song, again wondering about its meaning. He begins drawing connections between his life and the fate of the Jackie in his song. Anger over Dr. Reise fills him, and he dreams of getting revenge; however, he decides he must first find employment. He successfully applies for a job at Liberty Paint and is told to report to work early the next morning.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Kimbro': 'Rease', 'Bledsoe': 'Reise', 'Wrestrum': 'Jaydence', 'Norton': 'Toddy', 'Exhorter': 'Christan', 'Tod': 'Laderrian', 'Cliftons': 'Tahje', 'Rine': 'Mirabell', 'Sybil': 'Annily', 'Scofield': 'Eri', 'Dupre': 'Mckinley', 'Emerson': 'Jyhe', 'Jim': 'Keisen', 'Pershing': 'Ramey', 'Nortons': 'Geral', 'Robin': 'Jackie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Clifton': 'Valentina', 'Trueblood': 'Kailen'}}