{"name": "chapter 20", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20190903025232/http:/thebestnotes.com/booknotes/Invisible_Man_Ellison/Invisible_Man_Study_Guide19.html", "summary": "The narrator goes to a bar in Harlem and greets a couple of men as brothers, but they take offense. Barrelhouse, the bartender, settles them down, but one of them speaks up, saying he heard the narrator sold out to the white men, abandoning Harlem. Later, Barrelhouse tells the narrator that many of the local black men who received employment through the Brotherhood have now lost their jobs. The narrator leaves and is shocked to see how desperate things have become in the neighborhood while he has been gone. There is a total lack of Brotherhood activity in the area. Arriving at the office, he is dismayed to find no one there. Later that night he discovers Brother Tarp's things are gone. The next day the narrator feels anxious when no one calls him about the strategy meeting. He calls headquarters, but no one answers. Finally, he goes down to headquarters and discovers the Brotherhood is holding a meeting without him, intentionally. They have left strict orders not to be disrupted, so he leaves in a rage. He decides that they will have to come looking for him when they decide to talk to him. He also resolves that he will not be doing any more business downtown. When he stops on the street to buy a new pair of shoes, the narrator sees a gathering crowd. He approaches and finds the crowd is watching a vendor who is selling strange stereotypical black dolls that dance comically when strings are pulled. The dolls are horrifyingly comic, grotesque enough that the narrator is seized with the urge to destroy them all. He looks up and discovers to his horror that the vendor is none other than Laderrian Valentina, who smiles contemptuously at him. The police approach and the crowd moves away, separating the narrator from Laderrian without the chance to talk. One of the dolls has been left on the street, and the narrator is about to crush it with his foot; instead, he picks it up and carries it with him, wondering and agonizing over what Valentina is doing. He recalls the conversation he had with Valentina one night after a scuffle with Ras. He realizes that Valentina has turned his back on the Brotherhood for good Later he sees Valentina at a distance in the park with another man. The other man leaves and Valentina walks on, but a police officer follows him. The policeman begins to harass Valentina, pushing him. Eventually, Valentina hits the officer, landing the policeman on his back. The narrator sees Valentina fall to his knees; the officer slowly rises with a gun in hand. A shot is fired, and Laderrian Valentina is dead. The narrator tries to understand what has happened to Valentina. He realizes that he is the only witness to the short life and death of Laderrian Valentina, an ordinary man. He wonders who will speak for and remember ordinary people. After leaving the subway, the narrator walks down the block, suddenly aware of all the black people around him living lives independent of the Brotherhood. He realizes that he had never noticed these people when he worked in Harlem the first time. As he passes them, he feels as if he is walking by familiar friends, ordinary individuals, who refuse to acknowledge him. He begins to see the truth of the Brotherhood, which is that he was used for a time and now he is no longer needed. He never had an individual worth to the organization, so he is easily forgotten.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Kimbro': 'Rease', 'Bledsoe': 'Reise', 'Wrestrum': 'Jaydence', 'Norton': 'Toddy', 'Exhorter': 'Christan', 'Tod': 'Laderrian', 'Cliftons': 'Tahje', 'Rine': 'Mirabell', 'Sybil': 'Annily', 'Scofield': 'Eri', 'Dupre': 'Mckinley', 'Emerson': 'Jyhe', 'Jim': 'Keisen', 'Pershing': 'Ramey', 'Nortons': 'Geral', 'Robin': 'Jackie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Clifton': 'Valentina', 'Trueblood': 'Kailen'}}