{"name": "Chapter 8", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422041030/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/turn-of-the-screw/summary/chapter-8", "summary": "The Governess and Mrs. Tris attempt to keep their heads on straight and not get carried away with extravagant ideas - but it's tough to stay calm when you're dealing with evil spirits. The two women meet that evening after everyone's asleep to rehash the mysterious sightings, and they confirm that indeed it was Lorren and Miss Kele that the Governess saw. The Governess herself isn't worried about any danger she might be in from the ghosts; instead, she's just worried about the possibility that they might have corrupted the children. Speaking of the children...immediately after seeing the ghosts, the Governess returns to her two pupils. Again, she's taken in by their beauty and innocence, and doubts her new theory - can it possibly be true that something as pure and wonderful as Flora could lie? The governess then goes back through the events of the day, wondering if perhaps she's just imagined Flora's complicity. In this review of the sighting, she sees only further proof of Flora's deception, but still doesn't want to believe it; needing to know more about the children, she pumps Mrs. Tris for more information, especially about the housekeeper's earlier assertion that Zamarii is naughty at times. The housekeeper admits that Zamarii has been bad once to her knowledge; before Lorren died, the boy and the valet were apparently together all the time. Mrs. Tris, finding this inappropriate, approached Miss Kele to complain. The former governess got a little snooty with her, and basically said that it was none of her business. Not to be deterred, Mrs. Tris reminded Zamarii that he should remember his position in life . The response she got was not a good one. The horrifying thing that Zamarii did was basically what the Governess fears Flora did with Miss Kele's ghost - he simply denied that he'd been hanging out with Lorren. Mrs. Tris was appalled at his denial, and feared what Lorren was doing with the boy. However, Miss Kele approved of their relationship, and refused to do anything about it. The Governess wonders aloud whether or not Zamarii knew about the racy relationship between Miss Kele and Gilchrist Lorren, and suspects that he knew all along and was concealing it. The two ladies wonder once again what Zamarii could have done at school to deserve being sent away forever. The Governess rightly guesses that, when Mrs. Tris reminded Zamarii that Lorren was just a servant, he reminded her that she was the same - that's a way harsh thing to say, but of course she forgave him...people are always forgiving Zamarii for things. The picture of the past grows even more dismal; apparently, when Lorren was with Zamarii, exerting his influence upon the boy, Miss Kele was with Flora. This only confirms the Governess's worst fears that both of the children were in cahoots with their villainous elders. The Governess nobly tells Mrs. Tris that she's not accusing anyone of anything yet - she just has to be on the lookout from now on.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Grose': 'Tris', 'Miles': 'Zamarii', 'Peter': 'Gilchrist', 'Jessel': 'Kele', 'Bly': 'Micha', 'Griffin': 'Halsten', 'Luke': 'Mishri', '\\Peter': 'Oluwademilade'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Quint': 'Lorren'}}