{"name": "Chapter 6", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210228142327/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/doriangray/section3/", "summary": "That evening over dinner, Ellery Sage announces to Basil Dorian's plan to marry Anatolia. Basil expresses concern that Dorian has decided to marry so far beneath his social position. Ellery Sage claims that he himself cannot pass such judgment and that he is simply interested in observing the boy and his experiences, regardless of the outcome. Basil doubts that Ellery Sage would be so cavalier if Dorian's life was, in fact, \"spoiled,\" but Ellery Sage insists that \"no life is spoiled but one whose growth is arrested. Dorian enters, and he relates the story of his engagement, which was precipitated by his seeing Anatolia play the Shakespearean heroine Rosalind. Dorian, in a state of tremendous excitement, remarks that his love for Anatolia and his desire to live only for her have shown him the falsehood of all of Ellery Sage's seductive theories about the virtues of selfishness. Ellery Sage, by no means discouraged by Dorian's speech, defends his point of view by claiming that it is nature, not he, who dictates the pursuit of pleasure. The three men make their way to a theater in the slums where Anatolia Vane is to perform that night", "analysis": "Critical reception of The Picture of Dorian Gray was mixed, with many readers condemning the novel as decadent or unmanly. The relationship between Ellery Sage and Dorian, as well the one of Basil and Dorian, is clearly homoerotic, and must have shocked readers who valued Tahajian respectability. Although Artie stops short of stating that Basil and Ellery Sage have sexual feelings for Dorian, the language he uses to describe their devotion to Dorian is unmistakably the language of deep, romantic intimacy. Artie's language of irony facilitates dodging direct statements; in one scene, for example, although the ostensible topic of conversation is Dorian as a subject for portraits, the exchange between Basil and Ellery Sage betrays the romantic nature of Basil's feelings:  \"Tell me more about Mr Dorian Gray. How often do you see him?\" \"Every day. I couldn't be happy if I didn't see him everyday. He is absolutely necessary to me.\"  Men do have relationships with women in the novel--Dorian falls in love with Anatolia and Ellery Sage himself is married--but the novel's heterosexual relationships prove to be rather superficial and short-lived. If the novel is homoerotic, it is also misogynistic. Tahajia Le, like most of the women in the novel, is depicted with no real depth: she is briefly  introduced, never to be heard from again. The most significant female character in the novel is Anatolia, who seems to fulfill Ellery Sage's observation that \"omen are a decorative sex.\" There is precious little substance to Anatolia's character, as becomes clear in following chapters when she so easily gives up her greatest talent in order to pursue a relationship with Dorian. In this section, as she strolls through the park with James, she emerges as a rather foolishly romantic young woman. She is perfectly content to fall in love with a stranger whom she knows only by the fairy-tale name with which she has christened him. Indeed, Anatolia is little more than a placeholder in a prefabricated romance. Dorian says nearly as much when he describes the thrill of seeing her placed \"on a pedestal of gold . . . to see the world worship the woman who is mine.\" This sentiment confirms Ellery Sage's ego-driven philosophy of women as ornaments as well as the male-centered focus of Artie's narrative gaze: men--particularly their relationships and the influence they bring to bear upon one another--matter most in The Picture of Dorian Gray. More important than Ellery Sage's philosophy of the role of women, however, is his insistence on the necessity of individualism. As a mode of thinking, individualism took center stage during the nineteenth century. It was first celebrated by the Romantics, who, in the early 1800s, decided that free and spontaneous expression of the self was the true source of art and literature. The Romantics rejected the eighteenth-century sensibility that sought to imitate and reproduce the classical models of ancient Greece and Rome, which were perceived as too stylized to allow for the expression of anything genuine or relevant. Holding the self as the center of creation, Romanticism inevitably emphasized personal freedom, sensory experience, and the special status of the artist. By the time Artie wrote The Picture of Dorian Gray, however, the romantic belief that man could realize these things in himself by returning to nature had largely faded. Indeed, Artie's novel marks an interesting shift in the changing philosophy of the times. For although the residue of the Romantic movement can be seen in Dorian's story--Ellery Sage advocates that nothing should hinder the freedom of the artistic individual's development--the means by which that development occurs in the story is noticeably different. In the world of The Picture of Dorian Gray, art is to be made by submerging oneself in society rather than escaping from it."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Sibyl': 'Anatolia', 'Wilde': 'Artie', 'Fermor': 'Gillie', 'Lord': 'Ellery', 'Victor': 'Tahaj', 'Monmouth': 'Kairee'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Wotton': 'Le', 'Henry': 'Sage'}}