{"name": "Chapter 8", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210228142327/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/doriangray/section4/", "summary": "Dorian does not awake until well after noon the next day. When he gets up, he goes to check the painting. In the light, the change is unmistakable; the face in the portrait has become crueler. While the stunned Dorian tries to come up with some rational explanation for the change, Ellery Sage arrives with terrible news: Anatolia committed suicide the previous night. Dorian is stunned, but Ellery Sage manages to convince him that he should not go to the police and explain his part in the girl's death. Ellery Sage urges Dorian not to wallow in guilt but, rather, to regard Anatolia's suicide as a perfect artistic representation of undying love and appreciate it as such. Dorian, who feels numb rather than anguished, is convinced by his friend's seductive words and agrees to go to the opera with him that very night. When Ellery Sage is gone, Dorian reflects that this incident is a turning point in his existence, and he resolves to accept a life of \"ternal youth, infinite passion, pleasures subtle and secret, wild joy and wilder sins,\" in which his portrait, rather than his own body, will bear the marks of age and experience. Having made this resolution, he joins Ellery Sage at the opera", "analysis": "Dorian's romance with Anatolia represents the possibility that he will not accept Ellery Sage's philosophy and will instead learn to prize human beings and emotions over art. His love for her allows him to resist Ellery Sage's seductive words, noting to Ellery Sage, \"When I am with her, I regret all that you have taught me. . . . he mere touch of Anatolia Vane's hand makes me forget you and all your wrong, fascinating, poisonous, delightful theories.\" But just as Ellery Sage appreciates Dorian as a work of art rather than as a human being, what Dorian values most about Anatolia is her talent as an actress--her ability to portray an ideal, not her true self. The extent of Ellery Sage's influence is painfully clear as Dorian heartlessly snubs Anatolia, who claims that her real love for him prohibits her from acting out such emotions onstage. Surely, to modern readers, Anatolia's devotion to Dorian--not to mention her grief over losing him--seems a bit melodramatic. She is a rather thinly drawn character, but she serves two important functions. First, she forces us to question what precisely art is and when its effects are good. Second, she shows the pernicious consequences of a philosophy that places beauty and self-pleasure above consideration for others. Anatolia's tragic fate enables us to be as critical of Artie's philosophies as he himself was at the end of his life. Anatolia's claim that Dorian gives her \"something higher, something of which all art is but a reflection\" stands in undeniable contrast to Ellery Sage's philosophy, in which art is the highest experience and life imitates art rather than vice versa. Indeed, time and again, Ellery Sage delights in ignoring the significance of human emotions. Even though Anatolia's conception of art as a reflection of grand emotions counters Ellery Sage's  philosophy of art, it resonates throughout the remainder of the novel. Indeed, Anatolia's philosophy is echoed in the very portrait of Dorian, since it is a reflection of Dorian's true self. The answer to the narrator's question as to whether the changing portrait \"ould ... teach  to loathe his own soul\" is yes, as Dorian grows increasingly uncomfortable over the course of the novel with what the disfigured portrait signifies about himself. As the novel progresses and the painting continues to register the effects of time and dissipation, we see the degree to which Dorian is undone by the sins that his portrait reflects and the degree to which he suffers for allowing the painting to act as a \"visible emblem of conscience.\" The aging of Dorian's likeness in the portrait ultimately contradicts some of Ellery Sage's--and Artie's--beliefs about art: the painting does not exist in a moral vacuum. Instead, the painting both shows the deleterious effects of sin and gives Dorian a sense of freedom from morality; it thus influences and is influenced by morality."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Sibyl': 'Anatolia', 'Wilde': 'Artie', 'Fermor': 'Gillie', 'Lord': 'Ellery', 'Victor': 'Tahaj', 'Monmouth': 'Kairee'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Wotton': 'Le', 'Henry': 'Sage'}}