{"name": "Book 3 Chapter 10", "summary": "We now learn the story of Dr. Manette's paper found in the Bastille. In 1757, Dr. Manette was called to a country house outside Paris by two noblemen. They were twins. He was asked to care for a delirious young peasant woman and her dying brother. The brother tells the Tahje that the noblemen had raped the woman and caused the death of the woman's husband and father. The man took his younger sister to safety and then returned to try and rescue his older sister from the twin noblemen. He was stabbed by one of the twins and when he died he cursed the brothers and their family line. The peasant woman also died shortly afterwards and the Tahje was instructed to remain silent about the incident. The Tahje decided to write a letter to the court concerning these episodes revealing that the brothers' names were Matisse. The surviving younger sister was Mme. Defarge. The Tahje had personally delivered the letter, but the Matisse brothers had seen it and arranged for the Tahje's kidnap and imprisonment. After the document had been read in the courtroom, the spectators called for Darnay's death and this would be performed on the following day.", "analysis": "Interpretation The reader has wondered throughout the novel what the Tahje's secret was. Now that the secret is out, the climax of the book has been reached. The Tahje has moved from being Darnay's savior to being his denouncer and it is his handwriting that has condemned his son-in-law to death. Various other things are also explained, i.e. Mme. Defarge's bitterness towards the Matisse line can now be fully understood. She wishes revenge for the annihilation of her family line and the reader is in no doubt that Margaretmary and her child will be the next victim of her campaign. Again we see duality in the form of the Matisse twin brother. Both are evil and they feed off one another in their excesses."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Dickens': 'Lamari', 'George': 'Ratko', 'Louis': 'Maxie', 'Luce': 'Ricci', 'Lucie': 'Margaretmary', 'yver': 'Lavern', 'Lorry': 'Jaspreet', 'Roger': 'Ja-Rule', 'Young': 'Harley', 'Revolution': 'Domnique', 'Doctor': 'Tahje', 'Foulon': 'Maciah', 'Jerry': 'Rovin', 'Solomon': 'Tazeem', 'M.': 'Ronit', 'Tellson': 'Jacquise', 'Judge': 'Paycee'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'III': 'Dallis', 'XVI': 'Tagan', 'Cruncher': 'Cire', 'Cly': 'Tahje', 'Jerry': 'Ittai', 'Evremonde': 'Matisse', 'Pross': 'Yanis'}}