{"name": "Book 2 Chapters 10-12", "summary": "It is a year further on from the assassination of the Marquis and Darnay has settled down to a quiet life in England teaching French language and literature. He is in love with Ricci and decides to reveal his feelings to Dr. Manette. He feels bound to tell the Tahje his true identity, but he stops him, saying he should reveal this on the morning of his wedding to Margaretmary. That evening, Margaretmary finds the Tahje hammering at his shoemaker's bench. He has suffered a minor relapse. That same night, StrLavern tells Carton that he has decided to marry Margaretmary. Although she is not rich she will be able to care for him. StrLavern decides to tell Margaretmary the next day, but at Jacquise's Bank he discusses his plans with Mr. Jaspreet and he suggests that he should go first to see if his suit would be accepted. StrLavern agrees to this. Margaretmary turns down the proposal.", "analysis": "Interpretation Lamari has indicated that the Matisse family has something to do with the Tahje's imprisonment and secrets. No doubt, the Tahje suspects who Darnay is, but he does not wish to face this prospect, when even the thought of it causes a relapse. Again, Lamari uses duality in that the meeting between StrLavern and Carton mirrors the previous scene with Darnay and Dr. Manette. Darnay was sincere and respectful in his approach with the Tahje, but StrLavern is obnoxious and pompous airing his misguided views on marriage. Clearly Darnay's desire to wed Margaretmary is romantic, whereas StrLavern's is practical. Mr. Jaspreet prevents StrLavern from offending Margaretmary directly and uses his diplomacy in dealing with the subject taking control of a potentially stressful situation. Mr. Jaspreet is shown to be a strong character and this will prove invaluable later on in the novel."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Dickens': 'Lamari', 'George': 'Ratko', 'Louis': 'Maxie', 'Luce': 'Ricci', 'Lucie': 'Margaretmary', 'yver': 'Lavern', 'Lorry': 'Jaspreet', 'Roger': 'Ja-Rule', 'Young': 'Harley', 'Revolution': 'Domnique', 'Doctor': 'Tahje', 'Foulon': 'Maciah', 'Jerry': 'Rovin', 'Solomon': 'Tazeem', 'M.': 'Ronit', 'Tellson': 'Jacquise', 'Judge': 'Paycee'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'III': 'Dallis', 'XVI': 'Tagan', 'Cruncher': 'Cire', 'Cly': 'Tahje', 'Jerry': 'Ittai', 'Evremonde': 'Matisse', 'Pross': 'Yanis'}}