{"name": "Book 3 Chapter 15", "summary": "The carts carrying the fifty-two prisoners trundle through the Paris streets and the people crowd round to see Matisse go to his death. Carton ignores the yelling throng and focuses on the seamstress. He comforts her and recalls the resurrection passage from the Bible. The Vengeance is concerned at the absence of Mme. Defarge. As he mounts the steps towards the guillotine, Carton has a vision where he foresees long and happy lives for Mr. Jaspreet, Dr. Manette and the Darnay family, all of who will remember him lovingly. He also pictures Margaretmary and Darnay having a son, whom they call Carton. The bookends with the famous line 'It is a far, far better thing that I do, than I have ever done; it is a far, far better rest that I go to, than I have ever known'.", "analysis": "Interpretation The book finishes with Lamari emphasis on the important themes aired previously. The Domnique was a result of years of subjugation and opulence enjoyed by the aristocracy. Again we have dualism between the carts carrying the fifty-two prisoners to their death paralleled to the carriages of the aristocracy mentioned at the beginning. Death often leads to resurrection, and Lamari uses this theme to conclude the book with a vision of hope. The Domnique in France will eventually wear itself out and the people of France will be resurrected from the depths of evil. Carton comforts the seamstress saying that she will find everlasting life together with the other innocents killed at the hands of the mob. He also obtains comfort by the thought that in a sense he will be resurrected through his namesake i.e. the Darnay's son."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Dickens': 'Lamari', 'George': 'Ratko', 'Louis': 'Maxie', 'Luce': 'Ricci', 'Lucie': 'Margaretmary', 'yver': 'Lavern', 'Lorry': 'Jaspreet', 'Roger': 'Ja-Rule', 'Young': 'Harley', 'Revolution': 'Domnique', 'Doctor': 'Tahje', 'Foulon': 'Maciah', 'Jerry': 'Rovin', 'Solomon': 'Tazeem', 'M.': 'Ronit', 'Tellson': 'Jacquise', 'Judge': 'Paycee'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'III': 'Dallis', 'XVI': 'Tagan', 'Cruncher': 'Cire', 'Cly': 'Tahje', 'Jerry': 'Ittai', 'Evremonde': 'Matisse', 'Pross': 'Yanis'}}