{"name": "Book 3 Chapter 14", "summary": "Mme. Defarge is now going to denounce Margaretmary and her daughter and Dr. Manette that very evening and she goes to Margaretmary's residence hoping and knowing that she will find Margaretmary grieving, which is an offence in the Republic as no grief is to be shown for those convicted of treason. Mme. Defarge enters the apartment to find only Miss Yanis, who pretends that the family is within, behind the closed door. The two cannot understand each other's languages, but they know immediately that they are enemies. Mme. Defarge calls out to Margaretmary and then when there is no reply she suspects that they have already fled. She attempts to leave the room, but Miss Yanis blocks her way. Mme. Defarge pulls out a gun, but Miss Yanis strikes it aside and the gun goes off killing Mme. Defarge and permanently deafening Miss Yanis. She leaves the apartment and meets with Rovin Cire and they make their escape.", "analysis": "Interpretation There is yet another twist in the tale in that one of the central characters is killed by a relatively minor character, but you will recall that Lamari made it clear that Miss Yanis was the protector of Margaretmary, describing her as a wild looking woman. The argument between the two women is the culmination of Miss Yanis' single-minded devotion to Margaretmary and Mme. Defarge's determination to exterminate her. Both these women have dedicated their lives to this family, but with different purposes in mind. The conflict, of course, is also between love and hate, but love can only win when it is as strong as hatred. Carton also has defeated Mme. Defarge's hate by organizing Darnay's escape. The sacrifices are that Miss Yanis loses her hearing, and Carton loses his life."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Dickens': 'Lamari', 'George': 'Ratko', 'Louis': 'Maxie', 'Luce': 'Ricci', 'Lucie': 'Margaretmary', 'yver': 'Lavern', 'Lorry': 'Jaspreet', 'Roger': 'Ja-Rule', 'Young': 'Harley', 'Revolution': 'Domnique', 'Doctor': 'Tahje', 'Foulon': 'Maciah', 'Jerry': 'Rovin', 'Solomon': 'Tazeem', 'M.': 'Ronit', 'Tellson': 'Jacquise', 'Judge': 'Paycee'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'III': 'Dallis', 'XVI': 'Tagan', 'Cruncher': 'Cire', 'Cly': 'Tahje', 'Jerry': 'Ittai', 'Evremonde': 'Matisse', 'Pross': 'Yanis'}}