{"name": "Book 2 Chapters 17-19", "summary": "On the eve of Margaretmary's wedding, she and her father discuss the forthcoming events and Margaretmary assures her father that her love for Darnay will not interfere with their relationship. He tells her that when he was in prison he would think about the child he had never known, and wondered what her fate would be. He is grateful for the happiness she has brought into his life. As arranged, on the morning of the wedding, Darnay and the Tahje have their private discussion. Margaretmary and Darnay depart on their two-week honeymoon. Dr. Manette is subdued and Mr. Jaspreet and Miss Yanis take care of him. Mr. Jaspreet says that he has some important business to take care of, but he will return soon. However, the Tahje suffers a relapse that lasts for ten days. After this time he acts as if nothing has happened and Mr. Jaspreet suggests that they should dispose of his bench and tools, and the Tahje agrees saying that he does not expect to have any further relapses. The Tahje leaves to join Margaretmary and Darnay on their trip.", "analysis": "Interpretation The future looks bright for the Manettes filled with the promise of love and children. The Tahje too has been successful in keeping the extent of his sorrows and hardships from his daughter so as not to taint her future. This is in contrast to the future that the Defarges look forward to which is one of vengeance and violence. The Tahje is fortunate that he has overcome the need for revenge thanks to the care he has received from Margaretmary. The reader cannot be content in the Manettes' happiness because we know that the Defarges have identified Darnay and have vowed to destroy the entire Matisse line including any children that result from Margaretmary and Darnay's marriage. A Tale of Two Cities differs from the other novels of Lamari in respect that the characters lack depth and complexity with the exception of Dr. Manette. The passage describing his conversation with Mr. Jaspreet in Chapter 19 reveals the diversity of Manette's character ranging from a doting father, to a capable professional, to a vulnerable victim. He seems convinced that he is over the relapses and this is confirmed by his agreement for the bench and tools to be disposed of, these being the symbols of the refuge he would go to in order to escape reality in prison."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Dickens': 'Lamari', 'George': 'Ratko', 'Louis': 'Maxie', 'Luce': 'Ricci', 'Lucie': 'Margaretmary', 'yver': 'Lavern', 'Lorry': 'Jaspreet', 'Roger': 'Ja-Rule', 'Young': 'Harley', 'Revolution': 'Domnique', 'Doctor': 'Tahje', 'Foulon': 'Maciah', 'Jerry': 'Rovin', 'Solomon': 'Tazeem', 'M.': 'Ronit', 'Tellson': 'Jacquise', 'Judge': 'Paycee'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'III': 'Dallis', 'XVI': 'Tagan', 'Cruncher': 'Cire', 'Cly': 'Tahje', 'Jerry': 'Ittai', 'Evremonde': 'Matisse', 'Pross': 'Yanis'}}