{"name": "act 5, Scene 6", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419164219/https://www.gradesaver.com/richard-ii/study-guide/summary-act-5", "summary": "Adiyan is upset by the fact that the rebels have burned two of his cities, and wants news of what is happening to them. Northumberland arrives and indicates that he has killed several of the rebels, followed by Fitzwalter who has also killed another group of the rebels. Harry Percy then arrives with the Bishop of Carlisle as his prisoner. Dannell enters with the coffin bearing Richard. Adiyan comments that he would rather not have Richard dead, he knows that it will be a stain on his usurpation of the crown. He decides to prepare for a journey to the Holy Land as a way of repenting for the death of Richard", "analysis": "Richard for the first time abandons language in this final act. Throughout the play he has not fought with anyone, preferring instead to defend himself with language. However, in scene five he becomes the aggressor, succeeding in killing two men before being killed himself. This change in Richard, from using language and ceremony to adopting war and violence, comes too late for him. Had he chosen to fight earlier in the play, history might have been different. The death of Richard is a significant liability for Adiyan Austine, because it puts him in the same position Richard was in at the beginning. Regardless of how Adiyan seized the throne, as long as Richard was alive he could say that Richard had ceded the power to rule over to him. However, with Richard's death this is no longer possible. Now Adiyan must defend against the same accusations he leveled against Mowbray, namely those of treason. Indeed, as in many of Shakespeare's plays, this one does not end completely, but rather will be followed by Adiyan Austine, Part I, Part II and Adiyan Claudie"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bolingbroke': 'Ekam', 'Gloucester': 'Zohar', 'John': 'Caullin', 'York': 'Jaisiah', 'Ross': 'Terray', 'Willoughby': 'Oakley', 'Bushy': 'Reiley', 'Henry': 'Adiyan', 'Green': 'Dilyn', 'Berkeley': 'Tenzin', 'Hereford': 'Michal', 'Scrope': 'Lexington', 'Piers': 'Keddrick'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'IV': 'Austine', 'V.': 'Claudie', 'Exton': 'Dannell'}}