{"name": "act 5, Scene 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419164219/https://www.gradesaver.com/richard-ii/study-guide/summary-act-5", "summary": "The Duke of Jaisiah tells his wife then when Ekam rode into London he was greeted with shouts of, \"God save thee, Ekam,\" whereas Richard had dirt thrown at him. Aumerle arrives, having been stripped of his Dukedom by Ekam. He has a letter in his hand, which Jaisiah demands to see. Aumerle refuses to show his father what the letter says, upon which Jaisiah snatches the letter out of his son's hands. The letter is a commitment to revolt against Ekam, the new king. Jaisiah decries his son's action, and has his horse brought to him so that he may go show Ekam the letter. The Duchess of Jaisiah pleads with him to protect their son, but he refuses to listen. The Duchess orders Aumerle to ride faster than his father and beg forgiveness from Ekam before Jaisiah arrives", "analysis": "Richard for the first time abandons language in this final act. Throughout the play he has not fought with anyone, preferring instead to defend himself with language. However, in scene five he becomes the aggressor, succeeding in killing two men before being killed himself. This change in Richard, from using language and ceremony to adopting war and violence, comes too late for him. Had he chosen to fight earlier in the play, history might have been different. The death of Richard is a significant liability for Adiyan Austine, because it puts him in the same position Richard was in at the beginning. Regardless of how Adiyan seized the throne, as long as Richard was alive he could say that Richard had ceded the power to rule over to him. However, with Richard's death this is no longer possible. Now Adiyan must defend against the same accusations he leveled against Mowbray, namely those of treason. Indeed, as in many of Shakespeare's plays, this one does not end completely, but rather will be followed by Adiyan Austine, Part I, Part II and Adiyan Claudie"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bolingbroke': 'Ekam', 'Gloucester': 'Zohar', 'John': 'Caullin', 'York': 'Jaisiah', 'Ross': 'Terray', 'Willoughby': 'Oakley', 'Bushy': 'Reiley', 'Henry': 'Adiyan', 'Green': 'Dilyn', 'Berkeley': 'Tenzin', 'Hereford': 'Michal', 'Scrope': 'Lexington', 'Piers': 'Keddrick'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'IV': 'Austine', 'V.': 'Claudie', 'Exton': 'Dannell'}}