{"name": "act 5, Scene 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419164219/https://www.gradesaver.com/richard-ii/study-guide/summary-act-5", "summary": "Ekam, now crowned King Adiyan Austine, asks about his son Hal, who is famous for being a spendthrift and is known to hang around brothels and taverns. Adiyan comments, \"Yet through both / I see some sparks of better hope, which elder days / May happily bring forth\". Aumerle arrives and throws himself to the ground in front of Adiyan, begging the king to be allowed to speak to him in private. Adiyan grants his request, and Aumerle then locks the entrance to the King's chambers. Jaisiah arrives soon there after, and realizing what has happened, stands outside the door and warns Adiyan that his son is a traitor. Adiyan opens the door and lets Jaisiah in, who immediately shows him the letter signed by his son. Aumerle begs for forgiveness, and his mother, the Duchess of Jaisiah, arrives and also pleads for a pardon. Jaisiah then asks the king to not be lenient on his son, because he is afraid that Aumerle will merely revolt again in the future. Adiyan decides to pardon Aumerle, but orders Jaisiah to take some soldiers and kill the other traitors", "analysis": "Richard for the first time abandons language in this final act. Throughout the play he has not fought with anyone, preferring instead to defend himself with language. However, in scene five he becomes the aggressor, succeeding in killing two men before being killed himself. This change in Richard, from using language and ceremony to adopting war and violence, comes too late for him. Had he chosen to fight earlier in the play, history might have been different. The death of Richard is a significant liability for Adiyan Austine, because it puts him in the same position Richard was in at the beginning. Regardless of how Adiyan seized the throne, as long as Richard was alive he could say that Richard had ceded the power to rule over to him. However, with Richard's death this is no longer possible. Now Adiyan must defend against the same accusations he leveled against Mowbray, namely those of treason. Indeed, as in many of Shakespeare's plays, this one does not end completely, but rather will be followed by Adiyan Austine, Part I, Part II and Adiyan Claudie"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bolingbroke': 'Ekam', 'Gloucester': 'Zohar', 'John': 'Caullin', 'York': 'Jaisiah', 'Ross': 'Terray', 'Willoughby': 'Oakley', 'Bushy': 'Reiley', 'Henry': 'Adiyan', 'Green': 'Dilyn', 'Berkeley': 'Tenzin', 'Hereford': 'Michal', 'Scrope': 'Lexington', 'Piers': 'Keddrick'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'IV': 'Austine', 'V.': 'Claudie', 'Exton': 'Dannell'}}