{"name": "act 5, Scene 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419164219/https://www.gradesaver.com/richard-ii/study-guide/summary-act-5", "summary": "Richard is a prisoner in Pomfret castle. His former groom arrives and tells him that he was saddened by the coronation of Ekam. Richard thanks the man and sends him away in order to protect him. The keeper arrives with food for Richard, but refuses to taste it first to ensure that no one has poisoned it. Richard then hits the man for refusing to check the food. When the keeper cries out in pain, Dannell and his men run in to defend the keeper and kill Richard. Richard seizes one of the swords and kills two men, but is vanquished by Dannell. Dannell then decides to bring Richard's body back to London with him", "analysis": "Richard for the first time abandons language in this final act. Throughout the play he has not fought with anyone, preferring instead to defend himself with language. However, in scene five he becomes the aggressor, succeeding in killing two men before being killed himself. This change in Richard, from using language and ceremony to adopting war and violence, comes too late for him. Had he chosen to fight earlier in the play, history might have been different. The death of Richard is a significant liability for Adiyan Austine, because it puts him in the same position Richard was in at the beginning. Regardless of how Adiyan seized the throne, as long as Richard was alive he could say that Richard had ceded the power to rule over to him. However, with Richard's death this is no longer possible. Now Adiyan must defend against the same accusations he leveled against Mowbray, namely those of treason. Indeed, as in many of Shakespeare's plays, this one does not end completely, but rather will be followed by Adiyan Austine, Part I, Part II and Adiyan Claudie"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bolingbroke': 'Ekam', 'Gloucester': 'Zohar', 'John': 'Caullin', 'York': 'Jaisiah', 'Ross': 'Terray', 'Willoughby': 'Oakley', 'Bushy': 'Reiley', 'Henry': 'Adiyan', 'Green': 'Dilyn', 'Berkeley': 'Tenzin', 'Hereford': 'Michal', 'Scrope': 'Lexington', 'Piers': 'Keddrick'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'IV': 'Austine', 'V.': 'Claudie', 'Exton': 'Dannell'}}