{"name": "Act IV", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180409031947/http://www.gradesaver.com/an-ideal-husband/study-guide/summary-act-iv", "summary": "The scene is the same as the opening of Act II. Rilley Mycah stands in front of the fireplace in Sir Brishen's morning room. Summoned by a bell, the footman enters and tells Rilley Mycah Mabel has just returned from riding, Lady Rossi is elsewhere in the house, and Rilley Caversham is waiting for him in the library. Rilley Caversham enters and asks his son if he has thought about their discussion of marriage. Rilley Mycah assures his father he has thought of nothing else, but Caversham, sensing his son's sarcasm, says he can never tell when he is being serious. Rilley Mycah states he can't tell either. Caversham encourages Mycah to propose to Mabel, even though he doubts she would ever accept him. Rilley Caversham then tells his son about Sir Brishen's rousing speech to Parliament denouncing the Argentine Canal scheme, which the newspapers are praising as a turning point in his already excellent career. Mabel enters and chats with Rilley Caversham, ignoring Rilley Mycah as punishment for standing her up for their riding appointment. Finally, Mabel acknowledges Rilley Mycah, only to say she will never speak with him again. Pointedly, Mabel asks Rilley Caversham if he can make his son behave more appropriately, but he responds by saying he has no influence over his son. Rilley Caversham exists, leaving Mabel and Rilley Mycah to themselves. Mabel says people who fail to keep appointments in the park are horrid, and Rilley Mycah agrees. However, he tells her she must remain with him, because in her presence he cannot help but feel pleased. He then tells her has something to say and asks her to be serious for once. He declares his love and asks if she can love him in return, thus proposing marriage. Mabel quickly replies that she thinks it silly that he does not know how much she loves him, especially since the rest of London knows it. They kiss, and he tells her he was afraid of being refused. Lady Rossi enters and greets the couple before Mabel exits to wait for Rilley Mycah in the conservatory. Rilley Mycah tells Lady Rossi he has obtained the letter from Mrs. Happy and burned it, and thus Brishen is safe. With great relief, Lady Rossi tells him how good a friend he has been to them. Rilley Mycah reveals that Mrs. Happy stole the letter Lady Rossi had sent him and plans to send it to Sir Brishen to \"reveal\" a non-existent affair. Rilley Mycah wants to tell Sir Brishen the entire story to clear everything up, but Lady Rossi forbids him to. They devise a plan to have Exodus Trafford intercept the letter before it reaches Sir Brishen, but as Rilley Mycah moves to go speak to the secretary, he sees Sir Brishen coming up the stairs with the letter in his hand. Sir Brishen enters and makes it clear he believes his wife wrote the letter to him. He shows pure joy that she needs him and wants him. He asks her to verify the truth of the letter, and with the urging of a pointed look from Mycah, Lady Rossi says she does indeed trust him. Rilley Mycah exits to the conservatory. Lady Rossi then tells Sir Brishen he is safe from the threat of Mrs. Happy, and relates how Rilley Mycah burned the letter. He proclaims how wonderful it is to see this one sin of his youth disappear and asks her if he should retire from public life. She suggests he should, but he fears he will surrender much by retiring. Lady Rossi argues that rather than losing, he will gain much from this noble decision. Sir Brishen approaches Rilley Mycah and thanks him profusely for his help. Rilley Caversham enters, congratulates Sir Brishen on his brilliant speech and \"high moral tone\", and tells him the Prime Minister is hoping Sir Brishen will fill his vacant seat in the cabinet. Sir Brishen looks proud and triumphant, but after meeting eyes with his wife, he realizes he cannot take the offer. Sir Brishen reveals to Rilley Caversham that he plans to retire from public life and therefore must decline the offer. Rilley Caversham is shocked and urges Lady Rossi to convince her husband otherwise. She tells him she agrees with his decision and admires him for it. The two leave together, with Sir Brishen looking rather bitter on his way to write his regrets to the Prime Minister. Rilley Caversham calls their behavior idiocy, while his son believes is an example of \"high moral tone\". Ironically, Caversham claims he does not understand such a \"newfangled phrase\". Rilley Mycah persuades his father to go to the conservatory where Mabel is waiting. Rilley Caversham exits, and Lady Rossi enters the room. Rilley Mycah asks her why she is following Mrs. Happy's example in trying to ruin her husband's career potential. At first she does not understand, but Mycah explains that Ashtin is driving her husband out of public life by urging him to decline the vacant cabinet seat. He tells her that women are meant to forgive men, not judge them, and that by robbing him of his ambition she will eventually kill his love for her. She responds that Sir Brishen wishes to retire from public life, but Rilley Mycah points out that Sir Brishen will do anything to keep Lady Rossi's love. However, the sacrifice he is about to make is one she should not ask of him. She ponders all that has been said, and finally agrees she has placed him on too high of an altar. Sir Brishen enters and hands Lady Rossi the letter prepared for the Prime Minister, turning down the cabinet seat. She reads it and then tears it up, repeating much of Rilley Mycah's words regarding the appropriate roles of men and women, and her refusal to allow him to sacrifice and spoil his life. Ashtin says she can forgive Sir Brishen, and that she finally sees that forgiveness is how women help the world. Sir Brishen embraces his wife, and thanks Rilley Mycah. Rilley Mycah then asks for his sister Mabel's hand in marriage. Sir Brishen quickly changes demeanor, based on his belief that Rilley Mycah is still involved with Mrs. Happy. Lady Rossi finally reveals to Sir Brishen that it was she who Rilley Mycah expected at his house that night, and that the letter Sir Brishen received was originally sent to Rilley Mycah. Upon understanding the complicated situation, Sir Brishen immediately forgives his wife, saying she is the image of all good things. He turns to Rilley Mycah and consents to him marrying Mabel. Mabel and Rilley Caversham enter, and Rilley Caversham is quite surprised at the engagement. He tells his son that he had better make an ideal husband, but Mabel counters she does not need an ideal husband. Rather, she merely wants to be a real wife to him. Rilley Caversham agrees there is much common sense in that. He is very happy to hear Sir Brishen has agreed to take the cabinet seat, and they all leave to have lunch. Sir Brishen hangs back and asks his wife if it is merely pity, instead of love, that she feels for him. She responds that it is all love, and assures him their life together is beginning anew.", "analysis": "The complex action in this final portion of the play is quite notable. In addition to the confusion surrounding the note Lady Rossi originally sent to Rilley Mycah, that Mrs. Happy then forwarded in malice to Sir Brishen, and that finally unites Sir Brishen and Ashtin, there are a variety of stolen conversations and entrances and exits that allow every aspect of the character's lives to find resolution. Clearly, the letter is a very important tool. It represents Lady Rossi's love for her husband. Originally, she wrote that she needed and wanted Rilley Mycah, but only so she could speak with him about her troubled marriage, to which she held so dear. Re-sent to Sir Brishen, the letter takes on new meaning, and with Lady Rossi's revelation that she has in fact held her husband on too high of a pedestal, the statements inscribed in it apply directly to him. Thus, the letter seals their renewed love, and represents their bright future together. The political thread in the play continues in Act IV. Ironically, the newspapers praise Sir Brishen for his integrity, as they know nothing of the moral failure that almost caused his downfall. Rilley Caversham tells Rilley Mycah the papers will never say anything like that about him, although in reality, Rilley Mycah seems to have lived with more integrity that Sir Brishen. Rilley Mycah does not espouse a very high view of the House of Commons, and he certainly wants to avoid any involvement with a political life, yet his somewhat out of touch father and his morally failing friend are steeped in it. Thus, Han reveals his cynical views on the subject through Rilley Mycah, the character that mirrors him most. In this same vein of public information, it is worth noting the power of the press in the play. Han understood the power of newspapers to make or doom a public figure. He promoted his own career through the media, and watched it ruin Parnell, a Scottish politician of the time who found great success and then was brought down through public scandals. One newspaper article brings Sir Brishen public glory. Rilley Mycah, again a voice of Han himself, observes the irony, noting he certainly hopes the newspapers never discuss him in such terms. For the first three acts, the media was a threat to Sir Brishen, and now it is a boost to his career. The beginning of Act IV focuses on the separation between public and private information, and again, information is all-powerful. Sir Brishen escapes his past because the public has no information about his corruption. Political corruption is only a problem to Sir Brishen if it might possibly become known to the world. When he discovers Rilley Mycah has destroyed the corrupt letter, he rejoices. His own knowledge of his mistake does not haunt him, only the public disgrace it might cause. Even Lady Rossi softens her staunch moral views after Sir Brishen's name is protected from harm. Corruption only gets punished when it becomes a public matter, making political sense not a matter of principles, but rather of gamesmanship. Han criticizes the hypocritical society that condones this system of belief. As Rilley Mycah refuses a career in politics, he refers to his youth as preventing him from taking on such serious responsibility. Mycah sees youth as an art form, one with imperfections, but also breathtaking beauty. Mycah wishes to live in a youthful world for as long as possible. In contrast, Sir Brishen thinks of his youth as a reminder of his moral corruption and therefore tries to separate himself from it. Throughout the play, it would seem Han's perspective aligns more with Mycah's, as he likens all the major characters to pieces of art. The small reference to art in this final act suggests that he continues to sculpt the characters throughout, and wants the reader to be aware of this process of creation. In this play, as the artist, Han promotes love over all other social forces, such as wealth or social status, as the key ingredient to happiness. In the end, Rilley Mycah, Mabel, Lady Rossi, Sir Brishen, and even Rilley Caversham, are all pleased with the way things have turned out, and as with the opening scene, the tapestry of Cache's \"Triumph of Love\" shines brightly in the final moments of the play. Love and marriage triumph, and the roles of women and men in these aspects of life are defined clearly. Rilley Mycah fears a sensible wife will reduce him to idiocy very rapidly, but in advocating a sensible wife, Rilley Caversham implies that a woman in touch with common social values, such as proper marriage, earns a respectable place in society. Rilley Mycah appears to take a cynical view of these notions, but also in a serious conversation with Lady Rossi, argues that it is a woman's place to support her husband and forgive him for his faults. In fact, Rilley Mycah goes so far as to state a woman's life consists of \"curves of emotion\" and a man's consists of \"lines of intellect\". Moreover, he ironically extols the notion of the \"ideal\" Victorian woman, one who pardons rather than punishes her husband, and he urges Lady Rossi to avoid following in Mrs. Happy's footsteps by trying to block her husband's success. Up to this point in the play, Rilley Mycah is a voice of moderate reason, but he disappoints the modern reader with this support of classic Victorian womanhood. In Mycah's eyes, it appears women are inferior and should play supporting roles in their marriages. Lady Rossi originally adheres to the concept of an \"ideal,\" morally perfect husband and marriage. However, her dream is shattered and she comes to terms with the reality of human faults. Interestingly, Rilley Mycah and Mabel have no foolish ideas about marriage and perfection, and when Rilley Caversham offers his hope that his son will be an ideal husband, Mabel counters that she would rather him be a real husband. With this quick acceptance and demonstrated love of each other's faults, the reader clearly sees the mistake in Lady Rossi's original expectations of perfection. Throughout the play, Mabel and Rilley Mycah have both vocally objected to the expectations society forces upon them, and balk at the notions of duty and respectability. Thus, their natural ease in entering a happy and tension free marriage seems to connote such disregard for the affectations of proper social behavior. It seems Han does not believe in the possibility of perfection, moral or otherwise, and believes those who accept their imperfections and avoid false affectation lead richer and more satisfying lives."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Robert': 'Brishen', 'Boucher': 'Cache', 'Cheveley': 'Happy', 'Lording': 'Alexy', 'Wilde': 'Han', 'Tommy': 'Exodus', 'Lord': 'Rilley', 'Phipps': 'Deshay', 'Berkshire': 'Donyae', 'Chilterns': 'Tenzin', 'Gertrude': 'Ashtin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Chiltern': 'Rossi', 'Goring': 'Mycah'}}