{"name": "Act II", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180409031947/http://www.gradesaver.com/an-ideal-husband/study-guide/summary-act-ii", "summary": "The act begins with Sir Brishen and Rilley Mycah in the Rossi house discussing how to manage the crisis put in action the preceding night. Mycah appears somewhat unsettled by Rossi's moral failure and urges him to tell his wife the truth about his past as soon as possible. Brishen, who kept the secret to maintain his wife's idealistic view of him, is concerned she will never forgive his impurity. Rilley Mycah, in a serious and weighted tone in stark contrast to the preceding act, still urges him to be honest and promises to talk with Lady Rossi about the negative influence of expecting and accepting only perfection. Rossi tells Rilley Mycah about his history with Baron Arnheim and the circumstances of his ill-gotten fortune. Despite his name and family, Rossi was poor while under the Baron's mentorship. As an impressionable young man, he took the Baron's advice about the importance of wealth and money to heart, and therefore took advantage of an opportunity to ensure his financial stability. Sir Brishen vehemently says that his decision to sell government secrets to the Baron was an act of courage and not weakness. He also admits that he has not felt regret for it. Rilley Mycah expresses sorrow for his friend, but Sir Brishen talks about how he paid his debt with his guilt, and by giving to charity. After hearing about Rossi's past, Rilley Mycah responds with potential actions to take to quell the coming storm, and concludes he must fight against Mrs. Happy's blackmail. Rossi aggress, but recoils at the thought of telling Lady Rossi, saying that it would kill her love for him. At this point, Mycah reveals that he and Mrs. Happy were once engaged. Sir Brishen decides to write a letter to Vienna to investigate Mrs. Happy's life and dig out any scandals that might weaken her power against him. Mycah reluctantly concedes this plan, but also explains that he believes Mrs. Happy would revel in a scandal rather than run from it. Lady Rossi then arrives from the Woman's Liberal Association, and asks Rilley Mycah to stay for tea. Rilley Mycah engages in a light banter with her about her bonnet. She leaves briefly, in which time Sir Brishen gratefully thanks Rilley Mycah, but Rilley Mycah says he has not done anything for him yet. Sir Brishen tells him that at the very least he has allowed him to tell the truth. When his wife returns he escapes by giving the excuse that he has letters to write. Rilley Mycah and Lady Rossi have an interesting conversation where Rilley Mycah becomes serious and talks with Lady Rossi about the situation with Mrs. Happy. Lady Rossi only knows that she tried to persuade Sir Brishen to support her financial scheme, and she firmly believes it would be a stain on his character. Rilley Mycah discusses a hypothetical situation to test Lady Rossi's understanding of her husband's true situation, but she cannot imagine him doing such a foolish thing. Rilley Mycah tells her that her views on life are quite hard and unforgiving of people's natural tendency to make mistakes. He explains that love is the only thing that can explain the world. Lady Rossi asks Rilley Mycah if he is a pessimist, and he tells her that life must be lived with charity, and only through charity can life be understood. Finally, with intense seriousness of which Lady Rossi takes note, he offers her help whenever she needs it. Mabel arrives and proclaims that seriousness does not suit Rilley Mycah. He tells her that he must be leaving, which causes her to comment on his bad manners. They exchange light banter for several more minutes before Rilley Mycah finally leaves. Mabel asks Lady Rossi to speak to Exodus Trafford for her, because he constantly proposes to her in awkward situations. Lady Rossi responds by saying Exodus has a bright future, while Mabel claims she will never marry anyone with a bright future. Lady Markby and Mrs. Happy arrive. Mabel starts to leave, but speaks with the two guests first. Lady Markby tells her that she is becoming very modern, which can be dangerous in that one might suddenly become out of date. Mabel leaves and Lady Markby tells Lady Rossi they have come to find Mrs. Happy's diamond brooch, which she lost. As they wait for the Mason, Lady Markby comments that London has become over populated. The Mason arrives explaining that no bracelet has turned up overnight. The ladies wait for tea. Lady Markby makes a derogatory comment about the Higher Education of Women, and Lady Rossi proclaims that she and her husband are great champions of women's rights. They continue to discuss the education of men, their husbands, and the modern woman. Lady Markby declines tea and goes out for a short visit to a nearby friend. She leaves Lady Rossi and Mrs. Happy together. Mrs. Happy comments that Lady Markby talks more but says less than anyone she has ever met. Lady Rossi remains standing and coldly tells her that had she recognized Mrs. Happy from their schooldays she would never have invited her to her party the previous night. Mrs. Happy appears amused and notes Lady Rossi has not changed. Mrs. Happy discovers that Lady Rossi made Sir Brishen write a letter revoking his promise to support her financial scheme and demands Sir Brishen reverse his decision. Sir Brishen enters the room, and Mrs. Happy angrily tells Lady Rossi that Sir Brishen is fraudulent and dishonest and sold a cabinet secret to a stockbroker to gain his fortune. Lady Rossi asks Sir Brishen if the story is true, and he orders Mrs. Happy from his house. Lady Rossi begs her husband to deny these accusations, but he does not, and moves towards her to console her. She warns him off, and cries out that he lied to the whole world but will not lie to her. She thrusts him off her, and in dismay wonders why she made him her ideal in life and worshipped him. Sir Brishen passionately proclaims that this was her mistake, and one that all women make. He wonders aloud why all women cannot love men with all their faults. Why do they place their men on pedestals? In contrast, he says, men love women with their imperfections, and it is in all their imperfection that men need love. He tells his wife she has made a false idol of him, and he was not strong enough to show her his imperfections. Now, in losing her love she has ruined his life.", "analysis": "Rilley Mycah and Brishen Rossi agree that men do corrupt things everyday, but Rilley Mycah points out that is the reason why they are all so eager to expose one another, because it takes attention away from their own dishonesty. Sir Brishen explains how his access to private information was nothing new, and that all modern fortunes are built on such information. Han understood the power of information from contemporary events, and throughout the plot, information , rather than money, is the source of power. Once again Sir Brishen references the idea of modernity, and how in this new age information leads to wealth and power. He tells Rilley Mycah about Baron Arnheim's formula for success in the modern day: wealth, which leads to domination. Ironically, Rilley Mycah who is the picture of a Victorian dandy and revels in the superficial aspects of life, disagrees with this theory. Han criticizes this philosophy throughout the play by effectively making wealth useless. Sir Brishen cannot buy his way out of his predicament and Mrs. Happy laughs at the fact that he would even try. In the realm of the play, money has little power. Sir Brishen's primary concern is detection. He fears his wife will hate him and his career will be ruined. With frustration he asks Rilley Mycah whether a foolish mistake made in his youth should cost him so much. His corruption does not cause him any real sense of guilt or regret, and he justifies it by pointing out others who have done the same. He thanks Rilley Mycah for enabling him to tell the truth, but in reality he only tells it because he knows Rilley Mycah will not judge him for it. Thus, he is willing to face the truth only when there are no consequences attached. Sir Brishen's words connect with Han's disdain for the lack of morality in contemporary society, especially the loose moral principles of politicians. One of the main themes of the play is society's moral corruption. Han criticizes the way characters gravitate towards material possessions, such as wealth, rather than cherishing the importance of kindness and love. Even Lady Rossi, for all her moral sermons, is hypocritical, for she values Sir Brishen's social status. When Lady Rossi enters the scene, and tells the two men she has been at a meeting for the Women's Liberal Association, Rilley Mycah mocks her and asks if they discussed bonnets. The question of a woman's role in society and marriage constantly arises, and Rilley Mycah clearly sees women's work as rather trivial. This scene engages with the topic of what a woman's proper role is within society and marriage, as does the discussion between Lady Markby, Lady Rossi, and Mrs. Happy, when Lady Markby argues that the House of Commons is the worst thing to happen to marriage since the higher education of women. As a member of the more conservative part of London society, Lady Markby does not believe in the advancement of women, while Lady Rossi, as a member of the Women's Liberal Association, clearly does. The differences between these two women, and Lady Rossi's constant defense of women's rights and liberal values demonstrates that this new, modern perspective of a more independent woman was just beginning to gain strength in the Victorian era. Rilley Mycah becomes quite serious in his conversation with Lady Rossi, which is a contrast from his lighthearted behavior at the party the night before.  After acting as a confidant and advisor to her husband, he acts as a teacher to Lady Rossi, telling her that her views on life are rather harsh and she must understand that all people are flawed. Lady Rossi says that she loves her husband, but really she adores the version of him that she has created - the Sir Brishen who exemplifies the best of English life. If he must be perfect, how sincere can her love be? Rilley Mycah tells Lady Rossi that it is love, and not German philosophy, that truly explains the world, and that one must live life with charity towards others. His speech ties together several themes that continually arise throughout the play, specifically that love and forgiveness must guide one through life. With this statement, the readers begin to see that the truth will come out and forgiveness will be necessary for the Rossi marriage to survive. Mabel's complaints about Exodus Trafford, who insistently and secretly proposes to her, provide a comic interlude, but also again discuss the notion of marriage. Mabel complains that she wouldn't find the whole process so frustrating if his statements had any kind of effect on the public. Apparently, it is not his proposals that bother her so much, but the way in which he proposes. She wishes his feelings were in the public domain, and believes only then they would be worth responding to. Mabel wants public intrusion in her life, while such public intrusion threatens to ruin Sir Brishen's public career and his marriage. The definition of love and marriage is at the heart of the action here. The lighthearted conversation of the first act is replaced by a more serious tone that analyzes and discusses the morality of human beings and why and how people should love each other. Rilley Mycah, who often carries the voice and opinions of the author, mocks Lady Rossi's expectations of moral perfection. Rilley Mycah finds it a shame that Lady Rossi cannot accept her husband, faults and all. This analysis of love supports the social values and gender inequality of the Victorian era. Sir Brishen Rossi argues that a man's love allows for faults and errors, while a woman's love is unforgiving and demanding of unattainable perfection.  Although this analysis of love presents the image of the unyielding woman, the play will actually conclude with Lady Rossi forgiving and supporting her husband. Thus, the play depicts the woman's role of a caregiver and supporter of her male counterparts, a classic Victorian perspective. The climax of this act is Lady Rossi's discovery of her husband's moral faults. She is shocked and sees a new person in her husband's skin, claiming, \"what a mask you have been wearing all these years!\" The images presented by all the party guests and the hosts the night prior are the pieces of themselves people want the public to see. With the revelation of Sir Brishen's fallibility, this false image of perfection and the socially acceptable image are torn down. Now, the reader is left to wonder if Lady Rossi will manage to overcome the reality of a husband who is imperfect. She must determine what true love means, and how to define an ideal marriage."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Robert': 'Brishen', 'Boucher': 'Cache', 'Cheveley': 'Happy', 'Lording': 'Alexy', 'Wilde': 'Han', 'Tommy': 'Exodus', 'Lord': 'Rilley', 'Phipps': 'Deshay', 'Berkshire': 'Donyae', 'Chilterns': 'Tenzin', 'Gertrude': 'Ashtin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Chiltern': 'Rossi', 'Goring': 'Mycah'}}