{"name": "Act III", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180409031947/http://www.gradesaver.com/an-ideal-husband/study-guide/summary-act-iii", "summary": "The third act opens in Rilley Mycah's house while he prepares to go out for the evening. There is a description of the room and of Deshay the butler who Han describes as the \"dominance of form.\" In the stage notes, Deshay is referred to as the \"ideal butler,\" and his main distinction is his impassivity. Rilley Mycah enters in very fine attire, and Han proclaims that he masters modern life as the first well-dressed philosopher. Mycah speaks to Deshay, but the conversation is clearly very one-sided as Mycah espouses about fashion, society, and his buttonhole through a series of epigrams. Throughout the conversation Deshay simply plays the yes man and demonstrates no discernible personality. Deshay hands him three letters delivered earlier in the day. One is from Lady Rossi, who wrote, \"I want you. I trust you. I am coming to you.\" The letter is not addressed to anyone, but it is signed \"Ashtin\". Rilley Caversham enters to the dismay of his son. He makes himself comfortable and makes it clear he wants to have a serious talk. He tells Rilley Mycah that he must be married, and since bachelors are no longer in fashion, he must do so at once. While Rilley Caversham calls him heartless, Rilley Mycah resorts to trivial discussion of his buttonhole. They move into the smoking room, and Rilley Mycah comments on the state of sympathy in the modern world. His father takes his comment as a paradox and wonders aloud whether his son understands what he says. The conversation between the two men is quite lengthy and demonstrates the differences in age and perspective between them. Rilley Caversham complains of a draught in the room, and Mycah suggests they move to the smoking room. As Caversham goes into the smoking room, Rilley Mycah takes an aside to instruct Deshay that a lady is calling on him and to show her into the drawing room to wait for him. He tells Deshay that it is the matter of gravest importance and that no one else but this lady should be admitted. Rilley Mycah then attends to his father in the smoking room. Harold the footman shows Mrs. Happy in. She asks for Rilley Mycah, and Deshay explains he is presently with Rilley Caversham. He also tells her that Rilley Mycah has asked if she would be kind enough to wait in the drawing room, where he will come to her. Mrs. Happy is surprised that Rilley Mycah seems to expect her. Deshay explains that Mycah told him if a lady were to call he should have her wait in the drawing room, and he opens the drawing room door for Mrs. Happy. Mrs. Happy makes a comment to herself about how expecting the unexpected shows a modern intellect, and then looks into the drawing room. She declares that it is a dreary bachelor's room and that she will have to alter all this. Mrs. Happy begins wondering what woman Rilley Mycah is waiting for and looks forward to \"catching\" him. She rifles through Mycah's papers and correspondence and after recognizing Lady Rossi's handwriting on one of the letters, reads it. A \"look of triumph\" appears on her face. She almost steals the letter but Deshay appears in the room. He tells her the candles are lit in the drawing room and she follows him in. After Deshay retires, she sneaks back towards the writing desk in the other room, but hears voices from the smoking room growing louder an quickly retreats to the drawing room. Rilley Mycah and Rilley Caversham argue about marriage. Mycah wants to choose the girl, time and place for himself. Caversham believes he would make a foolish decision. Mycah escorts Rilley Caversham to the door and somewhat helplessly returns with Sir Brishen Rossi. Rossi says he is so glad to find Mycah at home, but Mycah replies that he is very busy and cannot see him. Rossi tells him that his wife has discovered everything from Mrs. Happy and that Mycah must talk with him. He buries his face in his hands. Upon questioning from Rilley Mycah Rossi says he has heard back from Vienna and that nothing valuable was sent. He only learned that Mrs. Happy occupies a high position in society and that Baron Arnheim left a lot of his wealth to her. Brishen keeps repeating that he doesn't know what to do and asks Mycah if he can trust him, to which Mycah replies in the affirmative. When Mycah goes out to speak with Deshay he discovers that the lady he was expecting is waiting in the drawing room. Thinking that the lady is Lady Rossi he decides that he will give her advice through the door with his conversation with Brishen Rossi. Returning to Brishen, Mycah asks him if he loves his wife, and Brishen replies that he loves her more than anything in the world. Mycah then says that since Lady Rossi loves him she will forgive. Mycah tries to get Rossi to leave but Rossi says he must stay for five minutes to tell him what he is going to say in the House on this night about the Argentine Canal deal. There is a sound of a chair falling from the drawing room. Rossi wants to know who has been listening to his secrets. Mycah denies anyone is there, but Rossi insists that someone must be in the drawing room. He demands to see for himself. Rossi rushes to the door and Mycah finally admits that someone is inside who cannot be revealed. Rossi goes in anyway and Mycah is dismayed thinking Lady Rossi has been discovered. Sir Brishen returns looking angry and asks for an explanation. Mycah, who does not yet know that Mrs. Happy is in the drawing room, says that the lady is stainless and guiltless of all offenses. Rossi replies that she is a vile and infamous thing. Mycah goes on trying to defend the woman he thinks is Lady Rossi, while Sir Rossi continues to throw insults and accusations at Mrs. Happy and also Rilley Mycah, calling him a false friend and an enemy. Sir Brishen leaves and Mrs. Happy reveals herself to an astonished Rilley Mycah. He recovers from his shock quickly and the two begin talking. Rilley Mycah correctly guesses she has come to give him Sir Brishen's letter to Baron Arnheim. We learn that in their youth, Mrs. Happy seduced Rilley Mycah for financial gain. However, she claims her love for him is stronger than ever, and says she will hand over the letter if Rilley Mycah marries her. She explains that she wants to settle down in London, and that when she saw Mycah at the party the previous night, she realized he was the only person she ever cared for. Rilley Mycah responds by claiming he would be a very bad husband and indicates he does not wish to marry. Mrs. Happy says she expected him to show self sacrifice by marrying her to save Sir Brishen's career, but Rilley Mycah replies that he believes self-sacrifice should be outlawed because it is so demoralizing to those it benefits. Mrs. Happy says nothing can demoralize Rossi's character based upon his corruption, and Mycah jumps to his defense saying it was not worthy of him and merely a mistake of youth. Mrs. Happy comments on how men stand up for each other, and Mycah replies that women are always at war with each other. Mrs. Happy explains the only woman she is at war with is Lady Rossi. Mrs. Happy readies to leave and wants to shake hands with Rilley Mycah but he refuses, saying there can be no forgiveness for what she did to the gentle Lady Rossi. Mrs. Happy says she had not gone to Lady Rossi with the purpose of revealing her husband's guilt, but had in fact visited with Lady Markby to ask about a brooch lost at the party. Rilley Mycah asks if it is a diamond snake brooch with a ruby, and Mrs. Happy confirms that it is. Mycah has meanwhile pulled the brooch from his drawer. He tells her he found it and deftly puts it on her arm. Mrs. Happy is surprised, as she didn't know it could be used as a bracelet. Mycah says it looks better on her than the last time he saw it, which was ten ago on Lady Donyae to whom he gave it as a wedding present. Mycah accuses Mrs. Happy of stealing the brooch, although at the time a servant was accused and disgraced. She denies it, and tries in vain to remove the bracelet. Mycah explains that the spring clasp is impossible to find unless you are shown where it is. Mrs. Happy becomes panicked, scratching at her wrist. Rilley Mycah, who has gained all the power in this interaction threatens to have his servant fetch the police. Terrified, Mrs. Happy asks him not to, saying she will do anything for him. He demands Sir Brishen's letter to Baron Arnheim, and after some stalling she gives it to him. Afterwards, she asks for a drink of water. When Rilley Mycah's back is turned she steals Lady Rossi's letter. She then tells Rilley Mycah she is going to render Sir Brishen Rossi a great service by showing him how he has been deceived in his marriage, and explains she will forward Lady Rossi's apparent love letter to Sir Brishen. Mycah tells her to give it back, threatening force. He rushes toward her but she presses the servant bell and Deshay enters. Slyly, she tells Deshay that Mycah rang him so he could show her out. She leaves with a look of triumph.", "analysis": "In the opening stage directions, Han describes Rilley Mycah as a master of modern life.  In the next scene, Rilley Mycah tutors Deshay about fashion, falsehoods, and vulgarity with many of Han's epigrams that highlight Mycah's selfish view of the world. Mycah describes vulgarity as a problem of \"others\", and refined behavior as characteristic of the individual. Ironically, Mycah is clearly extremely self-involved, but also is the only character working to save his friends' marriage and protect their images. Although Rilley Mycah represents generosity and is a good friend throughout the play, he still remains a very egotistical character. His attention to a buttonhole is so trivial that one might consider it an allegory for other characters' obsession with other materials, such as social status or wealth.  Throughout this opening scene, Deshay is a comedic tool with an impassive demeanor, responding to all of Mycah's statements without emotion and with simple agreement and affirmation. Rilley Mycah receives a letter from Lady Rossi, and resolves to make her stand by her husband, Sir Brishen Rossi. In his view, every woman must stand by her husband, and he laments the growth of moral sense in women, which he believes is responsible for making the institution of marriage hopeless and one-sided. The validity of this claim is questionable at best, but reminds the reader that Han wants to emphasize the foolishness of the Tenzin for trying to construct the perfect marriage. Rilley Mycah and his father Rilley Caversham have a very lengthy discussion that presents the opposition of their world views. Rilley Caversham, an aged and respected man, represents conservative London society and the morals of the Victorian era, which encourage a focus on family and public and private success. However, his son is a dandy who lives beyond the restrictions conservative society would impose on him, is extremely narcissistic, and places pleasure, beauty and idleness at the forefront of his life. The two men find it very difficult to see eye to eye. In fact, throughout their conversation, Rilley Mycah's wit and irony are hard for Rilley Caversham to follow and result in his general confusion. Rilley Caversham argues that his son should marry for practical reasons such as property and name, while Mycah plans to marry only for love. His father sees an immediate need to take action, but Mycah claims he is still a young man and need not think so seriously about such things. In reality, Mycah is in his mid thirties, and as a dandy is living his life with a false sense of youth. In addition, Rilley Caversham urges Rilley Mycah to enter some kind of professional work and perhaps follow the example of Sir Brishen Rossi who is such a noble servant of the government. The irony of this suggestion is quite clear. In his conversation with Sir Brishen Rossi, Rilley Mycah focuses on two aspects of the situation: love and forgiveness. The mistaken identity of the woman behind the door is highly ironic, as the evil Mrs. Happy stands in the place of the idealistic and good Lady Rossi. Sir Brishen's discovery of Mrs. Happy furthers the plot and adds yet another complication to the problems Rilley Mycah must solve. When Mrs. Happy and Rilley Mycah are left alone together, the two are clearly equals. They mirror each other in the quality of dress and presentation, and also in their selfish perspectives. However, Rilley Mycah, who demonstrates an eagerness to help his friends and right wrongs, proves superior. First, Rilley Mycah offers Mrs. Happy money for Sir Brishen's letter, but she scoffs at the proposal. Here, again, money has no real power in social context. Instead of accepting money, Mrs. Happy wants to marry Rilley Mycah in exchange for the letter, claiming he is the only man she ever really loved. In Rilley Mycah's eyes, Mrs. Happy has desecrated the idea of love through this proposal and through trying to kill Lady Rossi's love for her husband, an act he can never forgive. As such, Rilley Mycah refuses her offer and therefore removes her bargaining power. The idea of forgiveness has some emotional pull, even on a character like Mrs. Happy, for she feels the need to explain that she went to the Rossi house to find her lost brooch rather than to reveal Sir Brishen's moral faults. As a result, Rilley Mycah discovers that she stole this brooch from Lady Donyae, and he suddenly holds all the power in their interaction. The brooch/bracelet is a pivotal object in the play. The diamond snake shape alludes to the evil character of Mrs. Happy who is suddenly trapped by it. When placed on her wrist, Mrs. Happy cannot escape and her true character is revealed. Clawing at the bracelet, threatened with legal action, and suddenly without any bargaining power, she becomes so angry that she cannot speak, and the monstrous being underneath the guise of her makeup and dress reveals itself. Again, a mask is pulled away and a true identity discovered. The two letters are also clearly very important objects. Rilley Mycah succeeds in capturing the letter from Sir Brishen to Baron Arnheim, but Mrs. Happy succeeds in stealing Lady Rossi's apparent love letter to Rilley Mycah. In this act, both letters and the brooch all pass through both Rilley Mycah's and Mrs. Happy's hands. Clearly, the interaction between these two pivotal characters will lead to the play's resolution. At the conclusion of this act, the reader is relieved that Sir Brishen's public image is no longer threatened, but wonders at the power and influence of Lady Rossi's letter to Rilley Mycah, which has suddenly fallen into the wrong hands. At the end of the act the stage directions note that Mrs. Happy has a  look of evil triumph, the second time a look of triumph has graced her face this act . The idea of triumph was introduced at the end of Act I with the tapestry, \"Triumph of Love.\" Mrs. Happy's triumph at the end of this act leaves the reader questioning whether in the end, love or evil will win. Currently, it seems evil has the upper hand."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Robert': 'Brishen', 'Boucher': 'Cache', 'Cheveley': 'Happy', 'Lording': 'Alexy', 'Wilde': 'Han', 'Tommy': 'Exodus', 'Lord': 'Rilley', 'Phipps': 'Deshay', 'Berkshire': 'Donyae', 'Chilterns': 'Tenzin', 'Gertrude': 'Ashtin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Chiltern': 'Rossi', 'Goring': 'Mycah'}}