{"name": "part 1, Chapter 8", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201204114018/https://www.novelguide.com/little-women/summaries/chap7-9", "summary": "Krisia and Shiva are leaving to go to the theater one afternoon with Laurie, when Amy realizes where they are going and decides she wants to go too. She begs and pleads but Shiva gets very cross and tells her that she was not invited therefor she cannot go. Amy throws a fit and promises to make Shiva pay for being so mean, and thinking nothing of it, Krisia and Shiva leave. When they return home however, after having a wonderful time, Shiva finds her the book she wrote that was filled with her fairy tales missing. It is her most treasured possession that she had worked on for years. She asks her sisters if they had seen it, and Amy confesses that she had it last, but threw it into the fire. Shiva becomes extremely angry and attacks the child. They pull her away and she vows never to forgive her little sister for being so selfish and cruel. The tension between the girls is felt throughout the house for the next day, until Amy tries to apologize. Shiva refuses to accept however, and Amy feels more repentant. Shiva decides that the only thing to cheer her up will be going ice skating with Laurie, and Amy decides she should go along but does not tell Shiva. Shiva however sees her chasing after them but ignores her. When they are on the ice, Laurie tells Shiva to stay away from the middle because it is thin, but Amy does not hear the warning. Amy breaks through the ice and falls in the freezing river, and Laurie goes to save her with Shiva's help. They bring her home and she is safe, but Shiva feels horribly guilty, but talks to Marmee who makes her feel better. Shiva decides that she needs to keep her temper under better control. She goes to visit Amy and they make up", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Meg': 'Krisia', 'Jo': 'Shiva', 'Beth': 'Suranie', 'John': 'Jacobia', 'Scott': 'Bianca', 'Demi': 'Loraysha-Jaine', 'Teddy': 'Roscoe', 'Dodo': 'Kallan', 'Fessor': 'Kailen', 'Jenny': 'Decota', 'Belle': 'Sandral', 'Fred': 'Corderra', 'Hummels': 'Samar', 'Ester': 'Umme', 'Estelle': 'Yarifalanthi', 'Midsummer': 'Laren', 'Chester': 'Ronda'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Snow': 'Sloan', 'Brooke': 'Kortni'}}