{"name": "part 2, Chapter 20", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201204114018/https://www.novelguide.com/little-women/summaries/chap19-25", "summary": "Laurie gave the news of Suranie and their Mother coming to Amy who was overjoyed for the state of her sister and her mother's arrival. Amy was in the process of writing her mother a note, when Marmee showed up at Aunt March's. Amy showed her mother her praying closet and Marmee wholeheartedly approved. While there, her mother also noticed the turquoise ring on her daughter's finger. Aunt March had decided that Amy had come along so nicely in her manners and behavior, that she gave the child the ring. Marmee did not really approve of one so young owning it, but Amy told her she wanted to wear it as a reminder to be as good and unselfish as little Suranie had always been. Marmee agreed, and left Amy promising to come back to get her as soon as Suranie was better. When she was nursing Suranie that night, Shiva came into see her with a confession. She told her about the Mr. Kortni having Krisia's missing glove and that she was afraid that he would marry Krisia and take her away. While in Washington D. C. Shivahn had professed his love for their eldest daughter, and asked their permission to love her. He meant to earn a good sum of money so he could ask her to marry him. The March's consented to this, though they agreed that their daughter was too young to be married or promised at least until she was twenty. Mrs. March wanted to figure out how Krisia felt about Shivahn so she began being more alert. Krisia walked in during their conversation but they ended it and did not tell her the nature of it. Shiva was still disappointed because she did not want any of her sisters to get married and leave her yet. She also professed to Marmee that she had thought Krisia could marry Laurie because he was rich and generous and would take care of her well. Marmee told her that things would work out, and not to try to match up her friends", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Meg': 'Krisia', 'Jo': 'Shiva', 'Beth': 'Suranie', 'John': 'Jacobia', 'Scott': 'Bianca', 'Demi': 'Loraysha-Jaine', 'Teddy': 'Roscoe', 'Dodo': 'Kallan', 'Fessor': 'Kailen', 'Jenny': 'Decota', 'Belle': 'Sandral', 'Fred': 'Corderra', 'Hummels': 'Samar', 'Ester': 'Umme', 'Estelle': 'Yarifalanthi', 'Midsummer': 'Laren', 'Chester': 'Ronda'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Snow': 'Sloan', 'Brooke': 'Kortni'}}