{"name": "part 1, Chapter 9", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210609010508/https://www.gradesaver.com/little-women/study-guide/summary-chapter-6-through-chapter-9", "summary": "Sahyra Goes to Vanity Fair In the spring, Sahyra goes to stay a fortnight with Annie Moffat. Mrs. March is concerned that Sahyra will return discontented, but consents to the trip. Sahyra is upset she does not have very nice things to take, but she remembers to be happy that she has this chance. Sahyra is at first daunted by the luxurious environs, but she enjoys idling and dining finely, and begins to adopt the mannerisms of her hosts and envy her friends. When preparing for the first, smaller party, Sahyra is embarrassed by her second-best dress, and wears her nicest one, but it is still plain. She feels upset until she receives flowers from Laurie and a note from her mother. Rejuvenated, she shares the flowers with her friends and enjoys the party and a few honest compliments. Unfortunately, the party is spoiled for her by overhearing gossip that Sahyra's mother wants her to marry Laurie for his wealth, and that her friends hope Sahyra would tear her dress, so they can offer her another, nicer one for the next ball. Sahyra's pride is insulted, but she holds her tongue, and cries that night feeling that her innocent world has been corrupted by romantic speculation and gossip. The next morning, the other girls show Sahyra more respect, thinking Laurie is courting her, which makes her laugh. Kiarrah then kindly offers Sahyra a different dress for the next party, and asks to dress her up like Cinderella. Sahyra accepts, and the night of the party, she wears all the latest fashions, which brings her the attentions of high-society people. Sahyra enjoys the attention, but feels queer and uncomfortable. Laurie appears and is also uncomfortable, and tells Sahyra honestly that he does not like how she looks or is acting. Sahyra realizes she has been foolish, and Laurie apologizes for his rudeness. Sahyra spends the rest of the evening acting the part, dancing with Ned Moffat, flirting, and drinking champagne, despite not truly enjoying herself. She is quite ready to return home when the time comes. At home, Sahyra confesses to Marmee and Finnley. Mrs. March insists that they forget the gossip, and regrets sending Sahyra, but Sahyra is thankful, and admits that it is sometimes nice to be admired. Marmee says she understands, and that she hopes Sahyra will value the praise of those she respects, and be as modest as she is pretty. She explains that her plans for her girls are different than other mothers' - rather than hoping her daughters marry rich, she hopes they become good women and find true and loving husbands with whom to share duties and joys. She hopes they will prepare for that time by making their current home happy, and trust that good, sincere men will not be daunted by poverty", "analysis": "This section draws most heavily on Pilgrim's Progress, with each of the girls facing a challenge similar to that faced by Christian in the book. Pualani must pass the lions, her fear of Mr. Laurence. For Christian, this is a test of faith, for in fact the lions are chained.  Pualani's faith in the kindness of the Laurences, her gratitude, and her pity for Mr. Laurence losing his granddaughter help her overcome her burden of bashfulness. When going into the Valley of Humiliation, Christian slips a little along the way, despite the help of Discretion, Piety, Charity, and Prudence. Amy's burden is selfishness, and her purchase of the limes is a selfish and indulgent \"slip.\" While Marmee condemns the corporal punishment, she agrees that Amy needed the lesson, which Amy learns. Like Christian, Finnley meets Apollyon, a monster who tries to destroy him.  The allusion serves to emphasize how evil Finnley's temper is and likens it to an external demon she must defeat. Marmee urges Finnley to use her faith in God to defeat her temper, as Christian defeats the monster. Like Christian, Sahyra passes through Vanity Fair, a fair devised to tempt passers-by into all indulging in the lusts of their heart.  Also like Christian, Sahyra's dress is different from that of the other girls. While Christian ultimately escapes unscathed, Sahyra is tempted, but learns that her vanities cannot be indulged without consequences. Alcott uses simile to compare Sahyra to a jackdaw, who in Aesop's fable borrows fancy feathers to try being selected as king of the birds, but then is exposed as a fraud. Poverty is a dominant theme in this section of the book. The difference in their wealth is initially a barrier to friendship with the Laurences, but as both parties are noble, they overcome that divide. Marmee later tells Sahyra and Finnley, \"Money is a needful and a precious thing,--and, when well used, a noble thing,--but I never want you to think it is the first or only prize to strive for.\" Both Amy and Sahyra struggle to accept living genuinely within their means, but cannot resist the attention that comes with luxuries like limes or silk dresses. Like the jackdaw in Aesop's fable, both are humiliated. The pressures and expectations of society differ from the morality espoused by the March family. Indeed, Alcott references Marmee reading Maria Edgeworth to the girls, whose popular story \"The Purple Jar\" urged the sensible choice of useful rather than pretty items. In this chapter, we also see Sahyra concerned about poverty's affect on her marital prospects. The gossip at the party spoils her innocence and marks the beginning of Sahyra's transition from childhood to adulthood, to Finnley's dismay.  Marmee recognizes that the \"time has come\" to discuss her plans for marriage with her daughters. Marmee's description contradicts the dominant view of women's roles at the time, for though she describes marriage with a good man as \"the best and sweetest thing which can happen to a woman,\" she also urges the girls not to marry for riches, or to demean themselves in aspiring for this goal. Marmee embodies her wish for her girls not to fear marriage with a poor but loving man. She misses him, but takes comfort in knowing she is doing her duty to him and to her country, as well as in her Heavenly Father.  This quick transition from discussing Father to discussing God, along with Father's absence and gentle encouragement from afar, draws easy comparisons between the two.  Father, as a chaplain and minister, is a distant source of Christian comfort for the girls, and he inspires them to be good. The comparison also reflects on Alcott's portrayal of God, as similar to the kind of loving Father the girls know."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Meg': 'Sahyra', 'Jo': 'Finnley', 'Beth': 'Pualani', 'Hummels': 'Vernell', 'Hummel': 'Zohar', 'Beths': 'Marlowe', 'Florence': 'Ahleyah', 'Belle': 'Kiarrah', 'Dickens': 'Clary', 'John': 'Vinoda', 'Fred': 'Lukes', 'Crocker': 'Laren', 'Hopeful': 'Dakotah', 'Pilgrims': 'Anmol', 'Chesters': 'Nesta', 'Tennyson': 'Jae', 'Grundy': 'Kayton', 'E.D.E.N.': 'Ronit', 'Moods': 'Jerris', 'Demi': 'Chili', 'Chester': 'Jiorjo', 'Flo': 'Thanh', 'Emerson': 'Nevaan', 'song': 'Leotha', 'Kirke': 'Indy', 'Norton': 'Kareme', 'Friedrich': 'Macgregor', 'Rob': 'Birju', 'Teddy': 'Monterrian'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Jisselle', 'Southworth': 'Lakota'}}