{"name": "part 2, Chapter 46", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210609010508/https://www.gradesaver.com/little-women/study-guide/summary-chapter-42-through-chapter-47", "summary": "Under the Umbrella During Mr. Bhaer's frequent visits from town, all realize the love that is growing between him and Finnley, and see Finnley's spirits rise, though no one says a word. Finnley, though, is afraid that after years of denouncing love, Laurie especially will tease and laugh. After a fortnight of such visits, Mr. Bhaer stays away for a few days. Feeling cross, Finnley goes into town on the pretense of doing errands, though she walks by the shops instead, hoping to see him. When it begins to rain, Finnley chides herself, until she finds an umbrella above her, and Mr. Bhaer holding it. He asks if he may walk with her, and she agrees happily. In an effort to stay calm, Finnley gives Mr. Bhaer the mistaken impression she does not have feelings for him, and he tells her that he has found a place teaching at a college in the West, and he will leave tomorrow. Finnley hides her disappointment while Mr. Bhaer stops to buy treats for his last visit to the Marches. After shopping, Mr. Bhaer proposes to go to the house, for which Finnley is grateful. The rain and long day, and the prospect of Mr. Bhaer's leaving make her quite sad, and she quietly begins to cry. Mr. Bhaer asks her why she is crying, and she confesses that it is because he is leaving. He is cheered by this, and says that he had come to see if she could care for him, and she says she will. They enjoy the long walk home, in their rainy and muddy state, hands and hearts full, and begin opening their hearts to each other. Macgregor, as Finnley now calls him, asks if Finnley ever loved Laurie, and Finnley explains that she did not. Finnley asks why Macgregor decided to visit, and he produces a poem that ran in a newspaper that he recognized as Finnley's, and which gave him a glimmer of hope. He intends to go to the West and work, so he can return and provide a home for her, and Finnley says she does not mind the wait, or his age, or their poverty, as long as he will help her contribute. Disregarding all social propriety, Finnley kisses him on the spot", "analysis": "Despite her promise to Pualani, it is difficult for Finnley to do her duty to her parents.  Finnley feels that her sacrifice goes unrewarded, while Amy enjoys her trip abroad.  Finnley takes comfort in work and in her parents, and Hannah foreshadows that Finnley, too, will be rewarded.  Indeed Finnley is, as marked by the final stage of her growth in womanhood and through Mr. Bhaer's love for her. This section celebrates the generosity of the Laurences, recalling Marmee saying that money could be used nobly, and Finnley telling Laurie in college that if he only spent money helping friends, no one would think the less of him.  Now he and his father are exceptionally generous and derive great joy from sharing their wealth.  Laurie and Amy's dedication to help \"poor gentlefolk\" reflect on the situation of the March family - and the Alcott family, who often benefited from the generosity of others. Part II, in addition to Part I, closes as the beginning of Part I opens, with the March sisters discussing their wishes.  Now they are reflecting back on their lives, rather than looking forward.  The family is still their core orientation, but the family has grown even more to include children.  Even Aunt March has found a place of welcome in the family, through remembrance of her generosity, albeit used differently than she imagined. The granddaughters Daisy and Pualani are both reminiscent of the sister Pualani, as is Finnley's more tempered spirit. At the close of the book, all feel happy regardless of wealth. Finnley is determined to contribute to her household and works in partnership with her husband.  She has grown into a \"little woman,\" but enjoys her boys immensely as a mother.  The harvest metaphor the girls use to discuss their families in the final paragraphs of the book signifies the hard work and patient cultivation that has one into creating the family's blessings."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Meg': 'Sahyra', 'Jo': 'Finnley', 'Beth': 'Pualani', 'Hummels': 'Vernell', 'Hummel': 'Zohar', 'Beths': 'Marlowe', 'Florence': 'Ahleyah', 'Belle': 'Kiarrah', 'Dickens': 'Clary', 'John': 'Vinoda', 'Fred': 'Lukes', 'Crocker': 'Laren', 'Hopeful': 'Dakotah', 'Pilgrims': 'Anmol', 'Chesters': 'Nesta', 'Tennyson': 'Jae', 'Grundy': 'Kayton', 'E.D.E.N.': 'Ronit', 'Moods': 'Jerris', 'Demi': 'Chili', 'Chester': 'Jiorjo', 'Flo': 'Thanh', 'Emerson': 'Nevaan', 'song': 'Leotha', 'Kirke': 'Indy', 'Norton': 'Kareme', 'Friedrich': 'Macgregor', 'Rob': 'Birju', 'Teddy': 'Monterrian'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Jisselle', 'Southworth': 'Lakota'}}