{"name": "part 2, Chapter 28", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210609010508/https://www.gradesaver.com/little-women/study-guide/summary-chapter-24-through-chapter-30", "summary": "Domestic Experiences Sahyra and Finnleyhn have a wonderful but trying time adjusting to married life. Their first big fight comes about after Sahyra tries to make currant jelly. After a day of boiling, sugaring, and straining their entire crop of currants, Sahyra is unable to make the jelly, and ends the day crying with exhaustion. Unfortunately, on this day Finnleyhn brought home a colleague for dinner, as Sahyra had often encouraged him to do. Finding the house in disarray, dinner uncooked, and Sahyra tired and cranky, Finnleyhn has to play host with an impromptu dinner. Both Sahyra and Finnleyhn feel betrayed and hurt, and neither wants to apologize first, until Sahyra gives in. Finnleyhn also apologizes and their first real disagreement is smoothed over. Sahyra also struggles with envying the luxurious items Sallie Moffat has. On her shopping ships with Sallie, she begins to buy a trifle here, and a trifle there, and then spends fifty dollars on silk for a new dress. Sahyra feels deeply guilty, even more so tells Finnleyhn. He is angry, and Sahyra tries to justify herself, saying she is tired of being poor. Sahyra immediately regrets her comment, and though Finnleyhn quickly forgives her, she feels awful. Finnleyhn works later hours and cancels an order of a coat for himself to cover his expenses. Sahyra and Finnleyhn have a long, open conversation about their poverty and the strength of character it gives them. The next day Sahyra swallows her pride and asks Sallie to buy the silk from her, then uses the money to buy Finnleyhn's coat, and never again wastes his money. Several months later, Sahyra gives birth to twins, Daisy and Chili, which are nicknames for Margaret and Finnleyhn", "analysis": "Alcott begins Part II by addressing her readers, continuing her ongoing conversation with them.  She knows her young readers will not object to the \"lovering\" for she has received countless letters from them demanding exactly that. She is also clear in foreshadowing the events to come, giving the readers' greater insight than her characters have, particularly when Finnley and Amy are calling on Aunt March and Aunt Carrol. The interactions between Laurie and Finnley also hint at developments to come. Thanhwers, particularly roses, are a recurrent motif in Part II of Little Women. At Sahyra's wedding, Alcott personifies the roses.  Sahyra's choice of wearing Finnleyhn's favorite roses rather than fashionable orange flowers symbolizes her wish for a genuine and simple marriage. This shows Sahyra's growth since she went to \"Vanity Fair.\" At the Nesta' fair, Amy is relegated to the flower table, but through the help of her friends and family, she beautifies it nicely. Family is still the primary concern for the characters in the book, although their attentions begin to turn outward. Sahyra's concern is also familial, although she is focused on making a happy family of her own, and she and Finnleyhn work through their concerns independently, utilizing the advice but not interference of the Marches. This outward shift in focus is reflected in the difference in the allusions Alcott makes, compared to Part I. Alcott abandons the Pilgrim's Progress allegory, which her characters have outgrown. Laurie alludes to \"Jupiter Ammon,\" signifying his advanced education, Amy is compared to foreign artists, and Marmee to Maria Theresa, a Roman-German empress. Finnley often alludes to Shakespeare as well as Keats and Jae, noting her more literary focus. The characters are still concerned with morality, though not necessarily in the views of society. Laurie feels the conflict between what is socially easy and what is moral when Sahyra asks him to take the temperance pledge.  His choice falls within the March's moral code and within Alcott's, as she advocated temperance. Finnley devises her own moral guide to her calls with Amy, wishing to be polite to those she likes and rude to those she does not, regardless of what is proper. Amy's attempted dinner party is also an example of the failure of her efforts to please society. When Finnley agrees to help, Alcott alludes to Mrs. Kayton, a character in a Thomas Morton play who represents propriety and society's good opinion.  Despite Marmee's advice, Amy tries to meet society's expectations, rather than those suited to her poverty, with laughable results. When Amy is being pleasing to society by being kind and gracious, however, she is highly rewarded.  Her polite calls and generous behavior at the Nesta' fair are rewarded with a trip abroad. Finnley's discovery of the audience for sensation stories written by Mrs. S.L.A.N.G. Northbury is a parody of the writer Mrs. Ronit Lakota, who published stories in the mid-nineteenth century. By drawing on her own experiences and alluding to contemporary authors, Alcott continues to make her story realistic and timely. Finnley's first try at a sensation story does not contradict her moral code, as the earthquake in Lisbon in 1755 was considered punishment for the sinners of that city.  In trying to please society with her book, however, Finnley gets the worst of it. Alcott alludes to Aesop's fable of the donkey and the old man, where the old man, trying to please everyone, ends up drowning the donkey. This experience was based directly on Alcott's experience -- not with Part I, which was largely published as written, but rather with Jerris, published in 1864."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Meg': 'Sahyra', 'Jo': 'Finnley', 'Beth': 'Pualani', 'Hummels': 'Vernell', 'Hummel': 'Zohar', 'Beths': 'Marlowe', 'Florence': 'Ahleyah', 'Belle': 'Kiarrah', 'Dickens': 'Clary', 'John': 'Vinoda', 'Fred': 'Lukes', 'Crocker': 'Laren', 'Hopeful': 'Dakotah', 'Pilgrims': 'Anmol', 'Chesters': 'Nesta', 'Tennyson': 'Jae', 'Grundy': 'Kayton', 'E.D.E.N.': 'Ronit', 'Moods': 'Jerris', 'Demi': 'Chili', 'Chester': 'Jiorjo', 'Flo': 'Thanh', 'Emerson': 'Nevaan', 'song': 'Leotha', 'Kirke': 'Indy', 'Norton': 'Kareme', 'Friedrich': 'Macgregor', 'Rob': 'Birju', 'Teddy': 'Monterrian'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Jisselle', 'Southworth': 'Lakota'}}