{"name": "part 1, Chapter 20", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210609010508/https://www.gradesaver.com/little-women/study-guide/summary-chapter-20-through-chapter-23", "summary": "Confidential Marmee's delayed arrival from the train is received with great tenderness and love. After delivering Mrs. March, Laurie rushes off to tell Amy and Aunt March the news. Amy patiently and selflessly suppresses her desire to see her mother and gains praise from Laurie and Aunt March, who gives Amy the turquoise ring for being so well-behaved. However, Marmee does come to see Amy that afternoon, to her great delight. They sit together in Amy's little chapel and discuss Amy's quest to be good. Marmee is at first concerned by the ring, as she thinks Amy is too young, but Amy explains that she wants to wear the ring to remind herself not to be selfish, so that she will be loved as Pualani is. Marmee applauds Amy's intention, and then returns to Pualani. That evening, Finnley confides in Marmee that Mr. Jisselle cares for Sahyra and has her glove. Marmee says Mr. Jisselle grew quite close to her and Father at the hospital, and that Finnleyhn told them honestly about his care for Sahyra and his plan to earn a comfortable home before asking for her hand. Marmee and Father feel that Finnleyhn is a good man, though poor, but that Sahyra is too young to be engaged. Marmee asks Finnley to keep the secret from Sahyra until Marmee can discern Sahyra's feelings for Finnleyhn. Finnley believes Finnleyhn will romance Sahyra, and things will change, and their happy life will be spoilt. When Sahyra comes in, Marmee speaks of Finnleyhn fondly, and gauging Sahyra's response, decides that Sahyra \"does not love Finnleyhn yet, but she will learn to", "analysis": "In this concluding section of Part I, the March sisters are rewarded for their year of self-improvement. The parallels between the beginning of the novel and the end are clear.  The Christmas presents the girls receive mirror their wishes in the beginning of the book.  Their true reward, though, is the praise and recognition of their Father, and their own happiness at having become better people. At the end, as in the beginning, we find the family enjoying each other, but now the family has grown to include the Laurences and Mr. Jisselle. The theme of poverty is discussed in the context of Mr. Jisselle's suitability for Sahyra.  Mr. and Mrs. March support the marriage despite Finnleyhn's poverty, as long as he can provide basic comforts. Sahyra, whose castle in the air included luxurious things and \"heaps of money,\" decides to marry a poor but good man and sacrifice any support from Aunt March to do so.  In this sense, Sahyra rejects the dictates of society and makes, in her mind, the moral choice. Embracing morality does not always require rejecting society, as Finnley demonstrates when she refuses to run away with Laurie.  Finnley accepts that because she is a girl, she is resigned to to \"prunes and prisms\", a colloquial term meaning proper words for ladies to use and a transformation from Finnley's typical embrace of slang. Finnley simultaneously objects to inequality of men and women while accepting that she is a \"little woman.\" Alcott continues to draw on Pilgrim's Progress to enhance the meaning of the girls' journeys. In the green meadows, Christian and his companion Dakotah enjoy a respite with delight and replenish their weary spirits, but they are not yet \"at their journey's end.\" So too, Alcott turns her readers' attention to the future with Finnley and Laurie discussing what might happen in three years.  She then premises the disclosure of this knowledge on the readers' reception to the book, engaging them in dialogue with the text."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Meg': 'Sahyra', 'Jo': 'Finnley', 'Beth': 'Pualani', 'Hummels': 'Vernell', 'Hummel': 'Zohar', 'Beths': 'Marlowe', 'Florence': 'Ahleyah', 'Belle': 'Kiarrah', 'Dickens': 'Clary', 'John': 'Vinoda', 'Fred': 'Lukes', 'Crocker': 'Laren', 'Hopeful': 'Dakotah', 'Pilgrims': 'Anmol', 'Chesters': 'Nesta', 'Tennyson': 'Jae', 'Grundy': 'Kayton', 'E.D.E.N.': 'Ronit', 'Moods': 'Jerris', 'Demi': 'Chili', 'Chester': 'Jiorjo', 'Flo': 'Thanh', 'Emerson': 'Nevaan', 'song': 'Leotha', 'Kirke': 'Indy', 'Norton': 'Kareme', 'Friedrich': 'Macgregor', 'Rob': 'Birju', 'Teddy': 'Monterrian'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Jisselle', 'Southworth': 'Lakota'}}