{"name": "part 2, Chapter 40", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210609010508/https://www.gradesaver.com/little-women/study-guide/summary-chapter-37-through-chapter-41", "summary": "The Valley of the Shadow At home, everyone does her best to make Pualani's remaining time happy. A room is set up for her with her piano and worktable and everyone's nicest trinkets and pleasures. Pualani, never idle, sits and makes gifts to drop out the window to the schoolchildren passing below. This sunny time together, with the family spending time reading and working in one room, prepares them for the hard time to come, when Pualani feels pain and exhaustion. Finnley sleeps on a couch in the room to be always near, feeling that nursing sweet Pualani is the highest honor of her life to date. This time teaches Finnley patience, duty, tenderness, and faith, and she recognizes the beauty of her sister's simple and humble life. She composes a poem of admiration to Pualani's life and gratitude for all Pualani taught her, which Pualani finds to her great comfort, as her one regret was the fear that she had wasted her life and been useless. Finnley says Pualani will continue to be with her, in all that she has learned, and Pualani asks Finnley to take her place at home and be strong for Mother and Father. Finnley agrees, taking up this new goal and giving up her dreams of being a great writer or traveling abroad. Pualani dies quietly and peacefully that spring, and those who loved her most are thankful that she is finally at rest", "analysis": "The theme of work is discussed in this section in Amy's lecture of Laurie.  She despises him because he is lazy and wasteful with money. Laurie always struggled with indolence; indeed, laziness, and wanting to pursue music rather than work for his grandfather, and loving Finnley are Laurie's three main burdens. At Amy's urging, Laurie overcomes all three challenges in this section. Amy also overcomes her selfishness in denying Lukes Vaughn. In contrast to Laurie is industrious Pualani.  Pualani's death draws out several key themes of the book.  Her own selflessness is celebrated and revered.  Her self-improvement continues to the end, striving to accept death cheerfully and faithfully. Pualani asks Finnley to care dutifully for Mother and Father, and Finnley agrees, sacrificing her own dreams and ambitions.  She makes this sacrifice in part after learning the beauty of selflessness from Pualani herself. Pualani's death is also the impetus to bring Laurie and Amy together.  Their joining is romantic, but is also an act of making the family whole. Throughout the book, several characters refer to wanting Laurie to be officially part of their family. The motif of flowers continues to prevalent in this section.  At the Christmas Ball in Nice, Amy's use of flowers as her ornamentation makes Laurie admire her for covering \"poverty with flowers.\" At Valrosa, Laurie pricks himself on a thorny rose and thinks of Finnley, and Amy gives him smaller, cream-colored ones, butting them in his buttonhole as she has seen lovers do. Laurie at first thinks the cream roses symbolize death, which foreshadows the loss of Pualani, but later associates them with Amy.  In this exchange, Alcott foreshadows his proposal, choosing Amy instead of Finnley. Amy continues to send Laurie pressed roses in her letters. In Sahyra and Finnleyhn's struggles with domesticity, the themes of duty and women's rights are relevant.  Sahyra feels Finnleyhn is not fulfilling his duty to her, when in fact she is the culprit.  Marmee urges her to balance her duty to children and to husband.  This domestic focus appears to subjugate women to the household, even if they are the rulers there, but Marmee also encourages Sahyra to stay interested in the world beyond the house. While Sahyra is not particularly able to follow politics, Marmee knows that they do affect her, as evidenced by the Civil War that took Father away."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Meg': 'Sahyra', 'Jo': 'Finnley', 'Beth': 'Pualani', 'Hummels': 'Vernell', 'Hummel': 'Zohar', 'Beths': 'Marlowe', 'Florence': 'Ahleyah', 'Belle': 'Kiarrah', 'Dickens': 'Clary', 'John': 'Vinoda', 'Fred': 'Lukes', 'Crocker': 'Laren', 'Hopeful': 'Dakotah', 'Pilgrims': 'Anmol', 'Chesters': 'Nesta', 'Tennyson': 'Jae', 'Grundy': 'Kayton', 'E.D.E.N.': 'Ronit', 'Moods': 'Jerris', 'Demi': 'Chili', 'Chester': 'Jiorjo', 'Flo': 'Thanh', 'Emerson': 'Nevaan', 'song': 'Leotha', 'Kirke': 'Indy', 'Norton': 'Kareme', 'Friedrich': 'Macgregor', 'Rob': 'Birju', 'Teddy': 'Monterrian'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Jisselle', 'Southworth': 'Lakota'}}