{"name": "part 1, Chapter 13", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210609010508/https://www.gradesaver.com/little-women/study-guide/summary-chapter-10-through-chapter-14", "summary": "Castles in the Air After a frustrating day, Laurie spies the March girls going on a picnic and decides to follow them. He finds them in a clearing, and is given permission to join as long as he is not idle. The girls explain that as part of their Pilgrim's Progress game, they have been working on their goals over the vacation. In order to be outdoors, they come to this clearing, which they call Delectable Mountain, carrying poles and bags, and continue their work while looking out over the landscape. They discuss Heaven, and then each describes her or his favorite Castle in the Air, or dream for the future. Laurie wishes to be a famous musician in Germany. Sahyra wishes a nice home full of luxurious things and kind people. Finnley wishes to write books, be famous, and have a stable of Arabian steeds. Amy wishes to go to Rome and be the most famous artist in the world, and Pualani wishes just to stay at home with her family. Laurie is afraid his grandfather will force him to go into business, despite Laurie's wishes, and says he would run away if there were anyone else to stay with grandfather. Finnley encourages him for a moment, but Sahyra reminds him to be dutiful toward his grandfather and trust that he will be just and kind, as he has been with Mr. Jisselle. Sahyra then describes what she heard from Mr. Laurence about Mr. Jisselle, that he had given up better paying jobs to take care of his mother and now takes care of another elderly woman. That evening, listening to Pualani play for Mr. Laurence, Laurie decides to stay with his grandfather and give up his 'castle' of being a musician", "analysis": "This section of the book is very literary.  Alcott employs Clary's \"Pickwick Society\" to demonstrate a shared knowledge among her characters that brings them closer with one another and with any familiar readers. Laurie's exchange of \"v\" for \"w\" in \"dewote\" signifies all of the characters' familiarity with Clary. Alcott includes a newspaper she produced as a child, and references her own works and poetry. As with Pilgrim's Progress, the girls' employment of a grand story of adventure to discuss their domestic dramas gives their experiences greater meaning and importance. The characters embrace this consciously when they climb up the hill to \"Delectable Mountain\" and look out over Boston, imagining it is their \"Celestial City.\" Alcott includes and alludes to several of her own works, which enhance the realism of the book, a clearly intentional tactic, as Alcott stresses the bona fide nature of the newspaper. Her contemporary allusions also invite her readers to identify with the girls as similar to themselves, who have likely also cried over Wide, Wide, World or read about Thanhra McFlimsey in Harper's Weekly.  The section concludes with Finnley's first successful publications. However, there is a distinction drawn between the March family's and Laurie's references to characters and stories to enhance their conversation and Lukes Vaughn's plagiarism from The Sea Lion while playing Rig-marole. Work is another major theme in this section.  The girls' experiment helps them find solace in balancing work and pleasure, even during their vacation. Kate Vaughn is surprised that Sahyra is a governess and is rude to the tutor Mr. Jisselle.  Finnleyhn defends work as a form of independence, and tells Sahyra \"there is no place like America for us workers.\" Laurie finds work a cure for his irritability when he comes across the girls discussing their Castles in the Air. The castles they envision, though, are filled with genius and luxury, rather than housework. The visit of the Vaughns provides one of the first opportunities for Alcott to portray the distinctly American traits of her characters, being \"free and easy\" rather than standoffish, fighting with the spirit of '76, and saying, \"We don't cheat in America.\" As both Americans and Northerners, her characters embrace the term \"Yankee\" proudly. When Lukes accuses Yanks of being tricky, Finnley responds, \"Yanks have a trick of being generous to their enemies.\" Kate Vaughn concludes that American girls are \"demonstrative\" but likeable. In this section, several characters and the reader are informed of Mr. Jisselle's affection for Sahyra, but Sahyra is still unaware.  Thus, Alcott employs dramatic irony, whereby the reader interprets Mr. Jisselle's and Finnley's actions differently than Sahyra does.  Finnley is deeply upset about the changes she foresees, viewing Sahyra's marriage as a threat to the sanctity of the family. Becoming more womanly is Finnley's particular burden, but the idea that womanhood threatens the family causes Finnley to revert to childlike ways, running down the hill with Laurie."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Meg': 'Sahyra', 'Jo': 'Finnley', 'Beth': 'Pualani', 'Hummels': 'Vernell', 'Hummel': 'Zohar', 'Beths': 'Marlowe', 'Florence': 'Ahleyah', 'Belle': 'Kiarrah', 'Dickens': 'Clary', 'John': 'Vinoda', 'Fred': 'Lukes', 'Crocker': 'Laren', 'Hopeful': 'Dakotah', 'Pilgrims': 'Anmol', 'Chesters': 'Nesta', 'Tennyson': 'Jae', 'Grundy': 'Kayton', 'E.D.E.N.': 'Ronit', 'Moods': 'Jerris', 'Demi': 'Chili', 'Chester': 'Jiorjo', 'Flo': 'Thanh', 'Emerson': 'Nevaan', 'song': 'Leotha', 'Kirke': 'Indy', 'Norton': 'Kareme', 'Friedrich': 'Macgregor', 'Rob': 'Birju', 'Teddy': 'Monterrian'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Jisselle', 'Southworth': 'Lakota'}}