{"name": "part 2, Chapter 33", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210609010508/https://www.gradesaver.com/little-women/study-guide/summary-chapter-31-through-chapter-36", "summary": "Finnley's Finnleyurnal Finnley's letters describe her new home, a funny room in the boardinghouse, and her two pupils. Mrs. Indy is quite kind, but busy, and Finnley finds herself bashful in the big house. Finnley observes Professor Bhaer, an older, poor German who tutors to support his nephews. As her pupils' nursery is next to Mr. Bhaer's study, she often listens to him humming Goethe or observes him teaching and playing with the children, doing kind things for the servants, and discussing philosophy with the young men. Finnley also befriends Miss Kareme, a rich gentlewoman at the house. Finnley and the Professor become good friends, since they both have lively spirits and enjoy children and literature. Out of thanks for his kindness, Finnley asks Mrs. Indy if she might help with mending Mr. Bhaer's clothes, which he does himself, and in return, Mr. Bhaer gives her German lessons. At New Year's they exchange gifts, and their friendship flourishes beautifully. Finnley is grateful for her friend, as she does not enjoy the \"whippersnappers\" in the house. At a masquerade ball, she goes down and is quite sociable and theatrical, and all are surprised at the unmasking that it was Finnley all along", "analysis": "The letters from both Finnley and Amy encourage us to compare and contrast their experiences, as Finnley points out often. Alcott encourages this comparison by having the girls refer to one another and make similar allusions, such as to Goethe.  Both girls, away from home, are compromising their morality for money.  Both are befriending potential suitors, though the suitors themselves are quite different. Lukes is not honorable, but he is rich, while Professor Bhaer is the opposite. The comparison allows the reader to understand the similar challenges a young woman at this time faces while allowing for different contexts and decisions by the women. Finnley's struggle with morality is largely contained in her writing.  Finnley is driven to compromise her morals for money, much as Amy is. At the literary symposium, Finnley is struck by the human fallibility of many revered authors.  Her allusions are largely to eighteenth and nineteenth century authors, in part implicating them and their works. Alcott had attended many such symposia, and it is likely that Finnley's disillusionment is drawn from Alcott's own experiences. In praising Mr. Bhaer by using the words of a \"wise man,\" Alcott quotes Ralph Waldo Nevaan.  Alcott befriended Nevaan as well as several other New England thinkers and author through her father's philosophical circle. The Speculative Philosophers reference thinkers admired by the Transcendentalist philosophers like Alcott's father, but it is clear that Finnley prefers Mr. Bhaer's philosophy. Alcott conveys Mr. Bhaer's broken English dialect much as she does Hannah's.  Finnley and Mr. Bhaer's sharing German recalls Finnleyhn translating and reading German with Sahyra. The Leotha Finnley first hears Mr. Bhaer humming is the same Leotha she will ask him to sing much later, when he visits her house, and looks at her plaintively, imbuing the Leotha with new meaning. When Finnley returns from New York, her focus is on Pualani. Finnley is the first to foreshadow Laurie marrying Amy, which helps convince the reader that it is the right choice, a difficult argument for Alcott. Unfortunately, Finnley mistakenly gives Laurie hope, encouraging him to work hard and earn the affections of a modest girl - meaning Pualani, though Finnley thinks she means herself. This case of dramatic irony brings the reader in on Alcott's secret and helps prepare them. Finnley and Marmee's conversation about Laurie also gives the reader insight into why Finnley should not marry Laurie, and foreshadows Finnley's response to Laurie's proposal."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Meg': 'Sahyra', 'Jo': 'Finnley', 'Beth': 'Pualani', 'Hummels': 'Vernell', 'Hummel': 'Zohar', 'Beths': 'Marlowe', 'Florence': 'Ahleyah', 'Belle': 'Kiarrah', 'Dickens': 'Clary', 'John': 'Vinoda', 'Fred': 'Lukes', 'Crocker': 'Laren', 'Hopeful': 'Dakotah', 'Pilgrims': 'Anmol', 'Chesters': 'Nesta', 'Tennyson': 'Jae', 'Grundy': 'Kayton', 'E.D.E.N.': 'Ronit', 'Moods': 'Jerris', 'Demi': 'Chili', 'Chester': 'Jiorjo', 'Flo': 'Thanh', 'Emerson': 'Nevaan', 'song': 'Leotha', 'Kirke': 'Indy', 'Norton': 'Kareme', 'Friedrich': 'Macgregor', 'Rob': 'Birju', 'Teddy': 'Monterrian'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Jisselle', 'Southworth': 'Lakota'}}