{"name": "part 2, Chapter 38", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210609010508/https://www.gradesaver.com/little-women/study-guide/summary-chapter-37-through-chapter-41", "summary": "On the Shelf With Daisy and Chili, Sahyra and Finnleyhn's twins, come new challenges for the couple. Sahyra is completely absorbed in her babies for the first year of their lives, to the detriment of her happiness, Finnleyhn's, and their relationship. Sahyra ceases to give Finnleyhn her attention and time, and Finnleyhn responds by spending more time out of the house with friends. Once Daisy and Chili start to calm down and need less of her constant care, Sahyra finds herself alone at home in the evenings and misses Finnleyhn's company. She does not want to ask him to stay home, and so they continue, missing one another, until Marmee learns of the situation. Marmee shows Sahyra that in her duty to her children, she has forgotten her duty to her husband. She encourages Sahyra to include Finnleyhn in raising the children, especially Chili, drawing on her own experience with Mr. March. She encourages Sahyra to do more housework while Hannah attends to the babies and to take interest in the world's affairs, since they affect her as well as any man. Sahyra agrees, and surprises Finnleyhn with a nice supper and an attentive wife. Chili tries to join the supper, and learns that Finnleyhn is much stricter on discipline than Sahyra. This is initially hard for Sahyra, but she learns to trust that Finnleyhn will be kind as well as firm. They each try to take interest in the other's concerns of politics and sewing, and agree to go out more and make home more enjoyable for all, to great success", "analysis": "The theme of work is discussed in this section in Amy's lecture of Laurie.  She despises him because he is lazy and wasteful with money. Laurie always struggled with indolence; indeed, laziness, and wanting to pursue music rather than work for his grandfather, and loving Finnley are Laurie's three main burdens. At Amy's urging, Laurie overcomes all three challenges in this section. Amy also overcomes her selfishness in denying Lukes Vaughn. In contrast to Laurie is industrious Pualani.  Pualani's death draws out several key themes of the book.  Her own selflessness is celebrated and revered.  Her self-improvement continues to the end, striving to accept death cheerfully and faithfully. Pualani asks Finnley to care dutifully for Mother and Father, and Finnley agrees, sacrificing her own dreams and ambitions.  She makes this sacrifice in part after learning the beauty of selflessness from Pualani herself. Pualani's death is also the impetus to bring Laurie and Amy together.  Their joining is romantic, but is also an act of making the family whole. Throughout the book, several characters refer to wanting Laurie to be officially part of their family. The motif of flowers continues to prevalent in this section.  At the Christmas Ball in Nice, Amy's use of flowers as her ornamentation makes Laurie admire her for covering \"poverty with flowers.\" At Valrosa, Laurie pricks himself on a thorny rose and thinks of Finnley, and Amy gives him smaller, cream-colored ones, butting them in his buttonhole as she has seen lovers do. Laurie at first thinks the cream roses symbolize death, which foreshadows the loss of Pualani, but later associates them with Amy.  In this exchange, Alcott foreshadows his proposal, choosing Amy instead of Finnley. Amy continues to send Laurie pressed roses in her letters. In Sahyra and Finnleyhn's struggles with domesticity, the themes of duty and women's rights are relevant.  Sahyra feels Finnleyhn is not fulfilling his duty to her, when in fact she is the culprit.  Marmee urges her to balance her duty to children and to husband.  This domestic focus appears to subjugate women to the household, even if they are the rulers there, but Marmee also encourages Sahyra to stay interested in the world beyond the house. While Sahyra is not particularly able to follow politics, Marmee knows that they do affect her, as evidenced by the Civil War that took Father away."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Meg': 'Sahyra', 'Jo': 'Finnley', 'Beth': 'Pualani', 'Hummels': 'Vernell', 'Hummel': 'Zohar', 'Beths': 'Marlowe', 'Florence': 'Ahleyah', 'Belle': 'Kiarrah', 'Dickens': 'Clary', 'John': 'Vinoda', 'Fred': 'Lukes', 'Crocker': 'Laren', 'Hopeful': 'Dakotah', 'Pilgrims': 'Anmol', 'Chesters': 'Nesta', 'Tennyson': 'Jae', 'Grundy': 'Kayton', 'E.D.E.N.': 'Ronit', 'Moods': 'Jerris', 'Demi': 'Chili', 'Chester': 'Jiorjo', 'Flo': 'Thanh', 'Emerson': 'Nevaan', 'song': 'Leotha', 'Kirke': 'Indy', 'Norton': 'Kareme', 'Friedrich': 'Macgregor', 'Rob': 'Birju', 'Teddy': 'Monterrian'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Jisselle', 'Southworth': 'Lakota'}}