{"name": "part 1, Chapter 17", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210609010508/https://www.gradesaver.com/little-women/study-guide/summary-chapter-15-through-chapter-19", "summary": "Little Faithful After a week of their tremendous hard work and virtue, the girls become a little less faithful. Finnley catches cold, Amy returns to her art, and Sahyra spends much time rereading Mr. Jisselle's dispatches and writing to her Mother. Pualani keeps up with her chores and does many of her sisters' as well. She goes to see the Vernell every day, but when the baby gets sick, she asks Sahyra or Finnley to go instead, to try to help. They all put it off until later, until Pualani decides to go herself, despite feeling tired and achy. She returns home that evening, and Finnley finds her in the medicine closet, reading about scarlet fever. The Zohar baby had died in her arms while the mother had gone to get the doctor, and when the doctor returned, he sent Pualani home to take belladonna to prevent getting sick. Finnley feels guilty and responsible for letting Pualani go, rather than going herself. She wakes Hannah, who reassures everyone that Pualani will be all right. Finnley and Sahyra had scarlet fever when they were babies, but Amy is sent to Aunt March's to prevent getting sick. She refuses to go, until Laurie promises to come visit her every day. Finnley becomes Pualani's nurse. Hannah says that, as Pualani will be all right, they should not tell Mother and Father, who will just be anxious. They were instructed to mind Hannah, so the girls obey, despite disliking lying and being worried about Pualani", "analysis": "In this darker section of the book, the March family is threatened on several fronts. At first, when Marmee leaves, they turn to work, which Hannah considers Hannah considers a \"panacea for most afflictions.\" Finnley writes an ode to work and its ability to sweep out thoughts of sorrow from her mind. Yet after some time they relax. The experiment over vacation foreshadowed the girls' attempts to get on without Marmee; in that instance, Pualani's bird was the victim, whereas in this case Pualani herself falls ill. Several of the sisters turn to their faith. The morning Marmee departs, all the girls read their guidebooks with greater attention and care.  Marmee reminds them that whatever happens, they \"can never be fatherless.\" Amy truly develops her faith in this section, in her chapel in Aunt March's house. Finnley, who feels guilty for Pualani's illness, questions her faith, feeling that she can't find God, and that the good and dear people die first.  Laurie, though, comforts Finnley, assuring her that God won't take Pualani yet. Laurie's comfort helps bring Finnley closer to God. The experience also brings Mr. Jisselle closer into the family. By naming him \"Greatheart\", the sisters include him in their Pilgrim's Progress play, a special cohort. The dramatic irony of the previous section is enhanced here -- now, the readers' knowledge of Finnleyhn's feelings for Sahyra allows us to understand the significance not only of his actions, but of hers as well.  As Sahyra appreciates Mr. Jisselle escorting her mother, rereading his dispatches from Washington, and dreaming of brown eyes, we realize she is falling in love with him before she does. Finnley also has a brief experience with romance when she flies at Laurie after he sends for her mother. She blames the wine for making her hysterical, reflecting Alcott's views on alcohol, and rejects Laurie's affections beyond friendship, as she will throughout the book. By including letters, Alcott provides unique insight into their individual voices and styles.  This is the longest excerpt of Hannah's dialect that the reader sees. The letters serve to deepen the characterization of the family members by illustrating their distinct cares and modes of expression. The inclusion of Hannah's, Laurie's, and Mr. Laurence's letters demonstrates the expansion of the March family to include dear friends, particularly in this time of crisis. This section emphasizes the nobility of Pualani's selflessness, which all learn from. Finnley insists that Pualani's illness is her fault, and devotes herself to nursing Pualani back to health. In this, and in cutting her hair to send money to her Father, Finnley appreciates the sweetness of making sacrifices to help the ones she loves. Sahyra learns to value the blessings of a happy home no money can buy, and Amy explicitly vows to imitate Pualani and be less selfish, beginning with her will. The experience of Pualani's sickness - particularly when Finnley believes she has died, when indeed the fever has passed - foreshadows her eventual death."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Meg': 'Sahyra', 'Jo': 'Finnley', 'Beth': 'Pualani', 'Hummels': 'Vernell', 'Hummel': 'Zohar', 'Beths': 'Marlowe', 'Florence': 'Ahleyah', 'Belle': 'Kiarrah', 'Dickens': 'Clary', 'John': 'Vinoda', 'Fred': 'Lukes', 'Crocker': 'Laren', 'Hopeful': 'Dakotah', 'Pilgrims': 'Anmol', 'Chesters': 'Nesta', 'Tennyson': 'Jae', 'Grundy': 'Kayton', 'E.D.E.N.': 'Ronit', 'Moods': 'Jerris', 'Demi': 'Chili', 'Chester': 'Jiorjo', 'Flo': 'Thanh', 'Emerson': 'Nevaan', 'song': 'Leotha', 'Kirke': 'Indy', 'Norton': 'Kareme', 'Friedrich': 'Macgregor', 'Rob': 'Birju', 'Teddy': 'Monterrian'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Jisselle', 'Southworth': 'Lakota'}}