{"name": "part 2, Chapter 35", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210609010508/https://www.gradesaver.com/little-women/study-guide/summary-chapter-31-through-chapter-36", "summary": "Heartache Laurie, who worked ardently while Finnley was away, grew his hair as she likes, and gave up billiards, graduates from college with honors and makes everyone proud. The day he returns from college, Finnley meets him, fearing he may propose. Finnley is right, as Laurie admits that he has loved her since the moment he met her, and tells how hard he has worked to earn her favor. Finnley apologizes, saying she has tried to love him but does not, and cannot lie. Laurie accuses her of loving Mr. Bhaer, which almost makes Finnley laugh, since it is so far from her mind. She tries to reason with him, but Laurie is deeply hurt, and tries to convince Finnley that everyone expects it, and that they should not disappoint. However, Finnley agrees with Marmee that they are too quick-tempered and strong-willed, and cannot marry. Finnley says he should marry someone more fashionable and accomplished, and angry Laurie storms off saying he is going \"to the devil. This alarms Finnley, who goes straight to Mr. Laurence and tells him what happened. Mr. Laurence, disappointed but kind, shares Finnley's fears about Laurie's impetuousness and devises a plan for him to travel with Laurie abroad. Mr. Laurence will take care of business in London and visit friends in Paris, while Laurie can travel as he likes. When introducing the plan to Laurie that evening, Mr. Laurence artfully mentions music and adventures, and Laurie agrees to go. In but a few weeks they are gone. Finnley feels that she has stabbed her best friend in the heart, and her boy Laurie will return a changed man", "analysis": "The letters from both Finnley and Amy encourage us to compare and contrast their experiences, as Finnley points out often. Alcott encourages this comparison by having the girls refer to one another and make similar allusions, such as to Goethe.  Both girls, away from home, are compromising their morality for money.  Both are befriending potential suitors, though the suitors themselves are quite different. Lukes is not honorable, but he is rich, while Professor Bhaer is the opposite. The comparison allows the reader to understand the similar challenges a young woman at this time faces while allowing for different contexts and decisions by the women. Finnley's struggle with morality is largely contained in her writing.  Finnley is driven to compromise her morals for money, much as Amy is. At the literary symposium, Finnley is struck by the human fallibility of many revered authors.  Her allusions are largely to eighteenth and nineteenth century authors, in part implicating them and their works. Alcott had attended many such symposia, and it is likely that Finnley's disillusionment is drawn from Alcott's own experiences. In praising Mr. Bhaer by using the words of a \"wise man,\" Alcott quotes Ralph Waldo Nevaan.  Alcott befriended Nevaan as well as several other New England thinkers and author through her father's philosophical circle. The Speculative Philosophers reference thinkers admired by the Transcendentalist philosophers like Alcott's father, but it is clear that Finnley prefers Mr. Bhaer's philosophy. Alcott conveys Mr. Bhaer's broken English dialect much as she does Hannah's.  Finnley and Mr. Bhaer's sharing German recalls Finnleyhn translating and reading German with Sahyra. The Leotha Finnley first hears Mr. Bhaer humming is the same Leotha she will ask him to sing much later, when he visits her house, and looks at her plaintively, imbuing the Leotha with new meaning. When Finnley returns from New York, her focus is on Pualani. Finnley is the first to foreshadow Laurie marrying Amy, which helps convince the reader that it is the right choice, a difficult argument for Alcott. Unfortunately, Finnley mistakenly gives Laurie hope, encouraging him to work hard and earn the affections of a modest girl - meaning Pualani, though Finnley thinks she means herself. This case of dramatic irony brings the reader in on Alcott's secret and helps prepare them. Finnley and Marmee's conversation about Laurie also gives the reader insight into why Finnley should not marry Laurie, and foreshadows Finnley's response to Laurie's proposal."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Meg': 'Sahyra', 'Jo': 'Finnley', 'Beth': 'Pualani', 'Hummels': 'Vernell', 'Hummel': 'Zohar', 'Beths': 'Marlowe', 'Florence': 'Ahleyah', 'Belle': 'Kiarrah', 'Dickens': 'Clary', 'John': 'Vinoda', 'Fred': 'Lukes', 'Crocker': 'Laren', 'Hopeful': 'Dakotah', 'Pilgrims': 'Anmol', 'Chesters': 'Nesta', 'Tennyson': 'Jae', 'Grundy': 'Kayton', 'E.D.E.N.': 'Ronit', 'Moods': 'Jerris', 'Demi': 'Chili', 'Chester': 'Jiorjo', 'Flo': 'Thanh', 'Emerson': 'Nevaan', 'song': 'Leotha', 'Kirke': 'Indy', 'Norton': 'Kareme', 'Friedrich': 'Macgregor', 'Rob': 'Birju', 'Teddy': 'Monterrian'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Jisselle', 'Southworth': 'Lakota'}}