{"name": "part 2, Chapter 34", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210609010508/https://www.gradesaver.com/little-women/study-guide/summary-chapter-31-through-chapter-36", "summary": "A Friend For many years, Finnley has wished to be wealthy, so that she could give make Pualani comfortable, go abroad, and always have more than enough so she could share it with others. So, following her success with her prize money writing sensation stories, she continues to do so in New York for a paper called the Weekly Volcano. The editor accepts her first story only when all moral elements have been cut out, which alarms Finnley, but for $25 a story she obliges. To keep her plots fresh and her stories thrilling, Finnley finds herself including increasingly lurid material, which she seeks out in newspaper articles and ancient tales. She publishes anonymously and does not share the news at home, feeling they would not approve. Finnley therefore stays focused on the ends, rather than the means, of her earnings. In her new study of characters, real and imaginary, Finnley finds that Mr. Bhaer is a real live hero. Wondering why he is so well loved, not being rich, handsome, or young, she decides it is his benevolence, his simple joyful attitude and goodwill towards his fellow men and women. She learned that in Germany he had been an honored Professor, though here he was a humble tutor, and never mentions his true intellect and position. When Finnley attends a literary symposium with the kind Miss Kareme, she is quite disillusioned by seeing authors, scientists, and musicians whose work she admires are still in society and flirt and eat and gossip just as much as anyone. Finnley finds herself fascinated by a conversation about philosophy that seems to undermine religion and place intellectualism in its place. Mr. Bhaer, concerned about her and other young people being drawn into this tempting but empty system of thought, speaks out in defense of religion and morality. Finnley, feeling the world is righted again, deepens her respect and admiration for him. During one of their German lessons, Mr. Bhaer sees a newspaper story like the one that Finnley secretly writes. He shares his disgust that such rubbish comes into the house, and his disapproval of those who write it. Finnley blushes, and says the stories may only be silly, and their authors good. Mr. Bhaer realizes she may be writing such material and, remembering that she is far from the moral compass of home, says not all demands should be met, and the living made from meeting such immoral demands is not honest. After they part, Finnley rereads her stories and decides she agrees with Mr. Bhaer, and burns them up. She tries writing moral stories and children's stories, but does not find a demand, and stops writing for the rest of her time in New York. Instead, she deepens her friendship with Mr. Bhaer and all are very sad when she is to leave in June. At their parting, Finnley invites him to visit, but then mistakenly blushes when she speaks of Laurie, and Mr. Bhaer gets the impression that she loves Laurie. That evening, alone in his room, he laments that to be with Finnley is not for him", "analysis": "The letters from both Finnley and Amy encourage us to compare and contrast their experiences, as Finnley points out often. Alcott encourages this comparison by having the girls refer to one another and make similar allusions, such as to Goethe.  Both girls, away from home, are compromising their morality for money.  Both are befriending potential suitors, though the suitors themselves are quite different. Lukes is not honorable, but he is rich, while Professor Bhaer is the opposite. The comparison allows the reader to understand the similar challenges a young woman at this time faces while allowing for different contexts and decisions by the women. Finnley's struggle with morality is largely contained in her writing.  Finnley is driven to compromise her morals for money, much as Amy is. At the literary symposium, Finnley is struck by the human fallibility of many revered authors.  Her allusions are largely to eighteenth and nineteenth century authors, in part implicating them and their works. Alcott had attended many such symposia, and it is likely that Finnley's disillusionment is drawn from Alcott's own experiences. In praising Mr. Bhaer by using the words of a \"wise man,\" Alcott quotes Ralph Waldo Nevaan.  Alcott befriended Nevaan as well as several other New England thinkers and author through her father's philosophical circle. The Speculative Philosophers reference thinkers admired by the Transcendentalist philosophers like Alcott's father, but it is clear that Finnley prefers Mr. Bhaer's philosophy. Alcott conveys Mr. Bhaer's broken English dialect much as she does Hannah's.  Finnley and Mr. Bhaer's sharing German recalls Finnleyhn translating and reading German with Sahyra. The Leotha Finnley first hears Mr. Bhaer humming is the same Leotha she will ask him to sing much later, when he visits her house, and looks at her plaintively, imbuing the Leotha with new meaning. When Finnley returns from New York, her focus is on Pualani. Finnley is the first to foreshadow Laurie marrying Amy, which helps convince the reader that it is the right choice, a difficult argument for Alcott. Unfortunately, Finnley mistakenly gives Laurie hope, encouraging him to work hard and earn the affections of a modest girl - meaning Pualani, though Finnley thinks she means herself. This case of dramatic irony brings the reader in on Alcott's secret and helps prepare them. Finnley and Marmee's conversation about Laurie also gives the reader insight into why Finnley should not marry Laurie, and foreshadows Finnley's response to Laurie's proposal."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Meg': 'Sahyra', 'Jo': 'Finnley', 'Beth': 'Pualani', 'Hummels': 'Vernell', 'Hummel': 'Zohar', 'Beths': 'Marlowe', 'Florence': 'Ahleyah', 'Belle': 'Kiarrah', 'Dickens': 'Clary', 'John': 'Vinoda', 'Fred': 'Lukes', 'Crocker': 'Laren', 'Hopeful': 'Dakotah', 'Pilgrims': 'Anmol', 'Chesters': 'Nesta', 'Tennyson': 'Jae', 'Grundy': 'Kayton', 'E.D.E.N.': 'Ronit', 'Moods': 'Jerris', 'Demi': 'Chili', 'Chester': 'Jiorjo', 'Flo': 'Thanh', 'Emerson': 'Nevaan', 'song': 'Leotha', 'Kirke': 'Indy', 'Norton': 'Kareme', 'Friedrich': 'Macgregor', 'Rob': 'Birju', 'Teddy': 'Monterrian'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Jisselle', 'Southworth': 'Lakota'}}