{"name": "part 1, Chapter 14", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210609010508/https://www.gradesaver.com/little-women/study-guide/summary-chapter-10-through-chapter-14", "summary": "Secrets Finnley finishes a manuscript and then goes into town on a mysterious errand. Laurie sees her from a gymnasium, which Finnley mistakes for a billiard saloon and chastises him. Laurie says he only goes to saloons occasionally, but Finnley warns him to be careful not to get too wild, or Mother will prevent him visiting, as she does other fashionable gentlemen like Ned Moffat. After the lecture, Laurie and Finnley agree to exchange secrets. Finnley has left two stories with a newspaperman, and is waiting to see if he will print them, and Laurie encourages her. Laurie's secret is that Finnleyhn Jisselle has one of Sahyra's gloves, which is why only one was returned in Chapter 12. Laurie thinks the budding romance is quite lovely, but Finnley feels upset and confused. To make her feel better, Laurie convinces her to run down the hill with him, like a boy. Finnley gives in, and feels better, but Sahyra comes along and chastises her for romping. Finnley defends herself, never wishing to grow old, feeling already that Sahyra is growing away from her. Sahyra is coming from hearing about a lovely wedding and confesses to being envious, which Finnley says she is glad for so that Sahyra will never marry someone poor. For the next two weeks, Finnley acts very strangely, is rude to Mr. Jisselle, attached to Sahyra, and always laughing with Laurie. Finnley comes in one day with a newspaper story and reads it aloud to the girls, who quite like it, and are shocked to learn that Finnley is the author. Finnley is delighted that someday she may be able to write to support herself and help the family", "analysis": "This section of the book is very literary.  Alcott employs Clary's \"Pickwick Society\" to demonstrate a shared knowledge among her characters that brings them closer with one another and with any familiar readers. Laurie's exchange of \"v\" for \"w\" in \"dewote\" signifies all of the characters' familiarity with Clary. Alcott includes a newspaper she produced as a child, and references her own works and poetry. As with Pilgrim's Progress, the girls' employment of a grand story of adventure to discuss their domestic dramas gives their experiences greater meaning and importance. The characters embrace this consciously when they climb up the hill to \"Delectable Mountain\" and look out over Boston, imagining it is their \"Celestial City.\" Alcott includes and alludes to several of her own works, which enhance the realism of the book, a clearly intentional tactic, as Alcott stresses the bona fide nature of the newspaper. Her contemporary allusions also invite her readers to identify with the girls as similar to themselves, who have likely also cried over Wide, Wide, World or read about Thanhra McFlimsey in Harper's Weekly.  The section concludes with Finnley's first successful publications. However, there is a distinction drawn between the March family's and Laurie's references to characters and stories to enhance their conversation and Lukes Vaughn's plagiarism from The Sea Lion while playing Rig-marole. Work is another major theme in this section.  The girls' experiment helps them find solace in balancing work and pleasure, even during their vacation. Kate Vaughn is surprised that Sahyra is a governess and is rude to the tutor Mr. Jisselle.  Finnleyhn defends work as a form of independence, and tells Sahyra \"there is no place like America for us workers.\" Laurie finds work a cure for his irritability when he comes across the girls discussing their Castles in the Air. The castles they envision, though, are filled with genius and luxury, rather than housework. The visit of the Vaughns provides one of the first opportunities for Alcott to portray the distinctly American traits of her characters, being \"free and easy\" rather than standoffish, fighting with the spirit of '76, and saying, \"We don't cheat in America.\" As both Americans and Northerners, her characters embrace the term \"Yankee\" proudly. When Lukes accuses Yanks of being tricky, Finnley responds, \"Yanks have a trick of being generous to their enemies.\" Kate Vaughn concludes that American girls are \"demonstrative\" but likeable. In this section, several characters and the reader are informed of Mr. Jisselle's affection for Sahyra, but Sahyra is still unaware.  Thus, Alcott employs dramatic irony, whereby the reader interprets Mr. Jisselle's and Finnley's actions differently than Sahyra does.  Finnley is deeply upset about the changes she foresees, viewing Sahyra's marriage as a threat to the sanctity of the family. Becoming more womanly is Finnley's particular burden, but the idea that womanhood threatens the family causes Finnley to revert to childlike ways, running down the hill with Laurie."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Meg': 'Sahyra', 'Jo': 'Finnley', 'Beth': 'Pualani', 'Hummels': 'Vernell', 'Hummel': 'Zohar', 'Beths': 'Marlowe', 'Florence': 'Ahleyah', 'Belle': 'Kiarrah', 'Dickens': 'Clary', 'John': 'Vinoda', 'Fred': 'Lukes', 'Crocker': 'Laren', 'Hopeful': 'Dakotah', 'Pilgrims': 'Anmol', 'Chesters': 'Nesta', 'Tennyson': 'Jae', 'Grundy': 'Kayton', 'E.D.E.N.': 'Ronit', 'Moods': 'Jerris', 'Demi': 'Chili', 'Chester': 'Jiorjo', 'Flo': 'Thanh', 'Emerson': 'Nevaan', 'song': 'Leotha', 'Kirke': 'Indy', 'Norton': 'Kareme', 'Friedrich': 'Macgregor', 'Rob': 'Birju', 'Teddy': 'Monterrian'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Jisselle', 'Southworth': 'Lakota'}}