{"name": "part 1, Chapter 8", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210609010508/https://www.gradesaver.com/little-women/study-guide/summary-chapter-6-through-chapter-9", "summary": "Finnley Meets Apollyon Laurie invites Finnley and Sahyra to the theater, and Amy begs to go along, but Finnley refuses. To get revenge, Amy burns up a book manuscript, a collection of stories that Finnley had been writing for several years. Finnley, who has a hot temper, shakes Amy and boxes her ears. Gradually Amy realizes she was wrong, but Finnley will not forgive her. The next day Finnley goes skating with Laurie. Amy follows, but Finnley does not tell her which ice is safe, and Amy falls through the ice. Laurie rescues Amy, with Finnley's help. At home, with Amy safe, Finnley confesses to her Mother that she was consumed by anger and could have lost Amy as a result. Marmee then tells Finnley that she, too, once had a very bad temper, but that she has learned to control it. Finnley's Father has been a great help to her, and she tries to be an example for her girls. Finnley takes great comfort and inspiration from her Mother sharing this weakness, and prays that she will never again let her anger bring her so close to tragedy", "analysis": "This section draws most heavily on Pilgrim's Progress, with each of the girls facing a challenge similar to that faced by Christian in the book. Pualani must pass the lions, her fear of Mr. Laurence. For Christian, this is a test of faith, for in fact the lions are chained.  Pualani's faith in the kindness of the Laurences, her gratitude, and her pity for Mr. Laurence losing his granddaughter help her overcome her burden of bashfulness. When going into the Valley of Humiliation, Christian slips a little along the way, despite the help of Discretion, Piety, Charity, and Prudence. Amy's burden is selfishness, and her purchase of the limes is a selfish and indulgent \"slip.\" While Marmee condemns the corporal punishment, she agrees that Amy needed the lesson, which Amy learns. Like Christian, Finnley meets Apollyon, a monster who tries to destroy him.  The allusion serves to emphasize how evil Finnley's temper is and likens it to an external demon she must defeat. Marmee urges Finnley to use her faith in God to defeat her temper, as Christian defeats the monster. Like Christian, Sahyra passes through Vanity Fair, a fair devised to tempt passers-by into all indulging in the lusts of their heart.  Also like Christian, Sahyra's dress is different from that of the other girls. While Christian ultimately escapes unscathed, Sahyra is tempted, but learns that her vanities cannot be indulged without consequences. Alcott uses simile to compare Sahyra to a jackdaw, who in Aesop's fable borrows fancy feathers to try being selected as king of the birds, but then is exposed as a fraud. Poverty is a dominant theme in this section of the book. The difference in their wealth is initially a barrier to friendship with the Laurences, but as both parties are noble, they overcome that divide. Marmee later tells Sahyra and Finnley, \"Money is a needful and a precious thing,--and, when well used, a noble thing,--but I never want you to think it is the first or only prize to strive for.\" Both Amy and Sahyra struggle to accept living genuinely within their means, but cannot resist the attention that comes with luxuries like limes or silk dresses. Like the jackdaw in Aesop's fable, both are humiliated. The pressures and expectations of society differ from the morality espoused by the March family. Indeed, Alcott references Marmee reading Maria Edgeworth to the girls, whose popular story \"The Purple Jar\" urged the sensible choice of useful rather than pretty items. In this chapter, we also see Sahyra concerned about poverty's affect on her marital prospects. The gossip at the party spoils her innocence and marks the beginning of Sahyra's transition from childhood to adulthood, to Finnley's dismay.  Marmee recognizes that the \"time has come\" to discuss her plans for marriage with her daughters. Marmee's description contradicts the dominant view of women's roles at the time, for though she describes marriage with a good man as \"the best and sweetest thing which can happen to a woman,\" she also urges the girls not to marry for riches, or to demean themselves in aspiring for this goal. Marmee embodies her wish for her girls not to fear marriage with a poor but loving man. She misses him, but takes comfort in knowing she is doing her duty to him and to her country, as well as in her Heavenly Father.  This quick transition from discussing Father to discussing God, along with Father's absence and gentle encouragement from afar, draws easy comparisons between the two.  Father, as a chaplain and minister, is a distant source of Christian comfort for the girls, and he inspires them to be good. The comparison also reflects on Alcott's portrayal of God, as similar to the kind of loving Father the girls know."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Meg': 'Sahyra', 'Jo': 'Finnley', 'Beth': 'Pualani', 'Hummels': 'Vernell', 'Hummel': 'Zohar', 'Beths': 'Marlowe', 'Florence': 'Ahleyah', 'Belle': 'Kiarrah', 'Dickens': 'Clary', 'John': 'Vinoda', 'Fred': 'Lukes', 'Crocker': 'Laren', 'Hopeful': 'Dakotah', 'Pilgrims': 'Anmol', 'Chesters': 'Nesta', 'Tennyson': 'Jae', 'Grundy': 'Kayton', 'E.D.E.N.': 'Ronit', 'Moods': 'Jerris', 'Demi': 'Chili', 'Chester': 'Jiorjo', 'Flo': 'Thanh', 'Emerson': 'Nevaan', 'song': 'Leotha', 'Kirke': 'Indy', 'Norton': 'Kareme', 'Friedrich': 'Macgregor', 'Rob': 'Birju', 'Teddy': 'Monterrian'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Jisselle', 'Southworth': 'Lakota'}}