{"name": "part 2, Chapter 41", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210609010508/https://www.gradesaver.com/little-women/study-guide/summary-chapter-37-through-chapter-41", "summary": "Learning to Forget Amy's lecture did make Laurie realize that he had been lazy and selfish. He goes to Vienna to try to earn Finnley's respect, if not her love, by writing a Requiem or an opera. He finds, though, that tomboy Finnley makes a difficult heroine, and instead uses memories of Amy as his model. Yet after attending an opera by Mozart, Laurie agrees with Amy that talent is not genius, becomes humble, and accepts that he will not be a great musician. Having given up his dream, he wonders what to do next. During this time, he finds himself forgetting his romantic love of Finnley, feeling only a brotherly warmth toward her, despite all his sincerest intentions to love her all his life. He writes her to ask, one last time, if she will have him, and her response confirms that she never will. She urges Laurie to attend to Amy, for whom it is difficult to be far from home with Pualani so sick. After finally saying goodbye to his love for Finnley, Laurie begins a correspondence with Amy, who is indeed homesick, and they write to one another often. Laurie leaves Vienna and goes to Paris, hoping that Amy will ask him to visit Nice. Amy wishes to see Laurie, but does not invite him, for Lukes Vaughn has returned. Troubled by Laurie's view of her potential engagement, and her own misgivings, Amy found herself declining Lukes's offer, to her own surprise. She enjoys writing to Laurie very much, both of them cherishing each other's letters in ways they feel are brotherly and sisterly, but are truly romantic. Laurie is relieved to know that Lukes has gone to Egypt, understanding that Amy turned him down. Amy is in Vevey with the Carrols when she learns that Pualani has died. Laurie goes to her right away, and finds her sitting in a garden, a rare chance to see Amy's tender side. Amy runs to Laurie when she sees him, and as they embrace, both feel the truth, that they love each other, but they do not speak of it. They are great comforts to each other in this sorrowful time, and Aunt Carrol discretely encourages the match. Laurie and Amy are very active in Vevey, and Amy admires the change wrought in him. Laurie feels guilty at first for replacing Finnley with Amy, but he feels his new love is genuine, and waits for the time to say something. That time comes when they are rowing together on a lake, very simply and beautifully, and Amy accepts", "analysis": "The theme of work is discussed in this section in Amy's lecture of Laurie.  She despises him because he is lazy and wasteful with money. Laurie always struggled with indolence; indeed, laziness, and wanting to pursue music rather than work for his grandfather, and loving Finnley are Laurie's three main burdens. At Amy's urging, Laurie overcomes all three challenges in this section. Amy also overcomes her selfishness in denying Lukes Vaughn. In contrast to Laurie is industrious Pualani.  Pualani's death draws out several key themes of the book.  Her own selflessness is celebrated and revered.  Her self-improvement continues to the end, striving to accept death cheerfully and faithfully. Pualani asks Finnley to care dutifully for Mother and Father, and Finnley agrees, sacrificing her own dreams and ambitions.  She makes this sacrifice in part after learning the beauty of selflessness from Pualani herself. Pualani's death is also the impetus to bring Laurie and Amy together.  Their joining is romantic, but is also an act of making the family whole. Throughout the book, several characters refer to wanting Laurie to be officially part of their family. The motif of flowers continues to prevalent in this section.  At the Christmas Ball in Nice, Amy's use of flowers as her ornamentation makes Laurie admire her for covering \"poverty with flowers.\" At Valrosa, Laurie pricks himself on a thorny rose and thinks of Finnley, and Amy gives him smaller, cream-colored ones, butting them in his buttonhole as she has seen lovers do. Laurie at first thinks the cream roses symbolize death, which foreshadows the loss of Pualani, but later associates them with Amy.  In this exchange, Alcott foreshadows his proposal, choosing Amy instead of Finnley. Amy continues to send Laurie pressed roses in her letters. In Sahyra and Finnleyhn's struggles with domesticity, the themes of duty and women's rights are relevant.  Sahyra feels Finnleyhn is not fulfilling his duty to her, when in fact she is the culprit.  Marmee urges her to balance her duty to children and to husband.  This domestic focus appears to subjugate women to the household, even if they are the rulers there, but Marmee also encourages Sahyra to stay interested in the world beyond the house. While Sahyra is not particularly able to follow politics, Marmee knows that they do affect her, as evidenced by the Civil War that took Father away."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Meg': 'Sahyra', 'Jo': 'Finnley', 'Beth': 'Pualani', 'Hummels': 'Vernell', 'Hummel': 'Zohar', 'Beths': 'Marlowe', 'Florence': 'Ahleyah', 'Belle': 'Kiarrah', 'Dickens': 'Clary', 'John': 'Vinoda', 'Fred': 'Lukes', 'Crocker': 'Laren', 'Hopeful': 'Dakotah', 'Pilgrims': 'Anmol', 'Chesters': 'Nesta', 'Tennyson': 'Jae', 'Grundy': 'Kayton', 'E.D.E.N.': 'Ronit', 'Moods': 'Jerris', 'Demi': 'Chili', 'Chester': 'Jiorjo', 'Flo': 'Thanh', 'Emerson': 'Nevaan', 'song': 'Leotha', 'Kirke': 'Indy', 'Norton': 'Kareme', 'Friedrich': 'Macgregor', 'Rob': 'Birju', 'Teddy': 'Monterrian'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Jisselle', 'Southworth': 'Lakota'}}