{"name": "part 1, Chapter 23", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210609010508/https://www.gradesaver.com/little-women/study-guide/summary-chapter-20-through-chapter-23", "summary": "Aunt March Settles the Question Despite the utter joy at having Father home, there is a lingering anxiety and uncertainty in the March house felt by the adults about Sahyra and Finnleyhn. Finnley confronts Sahyra, who says that if Finnleyhn asks her, she will kindly ask to remain friends, as she is too young. Just at that moment, Mr. Jisselle stops by to collect his umbrella and see Mr. March. Finnley flees the room, leaving Sahyra to make her speech. Sahyra starts to leave as well, but Finnleyhn stops her, holding her hand, and asks if she cares about him at all, as he loves her so much. Sahyra, forgetting her speech, simply says she does not know. He asks her to try to learn, and Sahyra is quite flattered, but she sees a sense of satisfaction in his eyes, as if he expects her to say yes. Thinking of Annie Moffat, Sahyra suddenly starts acting coquettish as other girls do, saying she is not interested and being hurtful and distant. Finnleyhn is deeply hurt, and Sahyra feels guilty, but at that moment, Aunt March comes in. Mr. Jisselle steps into the study as Aunt March quizzes the blushing Sahyra. Aunt March tells Sahyra that if she accepts the poor Mr. Jisselle, Aunt March will not give them a single penny. Aunt March's statement raises Sahyra's spirit of opposition, and Sahyra declares that she will marry whom she likes. She then defends Finnleyhn, expounding on his courage, goodness, and their willingness to wait and work hard. Aunt March storms out, and Finnleyhn rushes in, having heard all of Sahyra's remarks. He asks again if she might care for him, and once more passing up the chance to make her sensible speech, Sahyra agrees. Finnley returns and is shocked to find Sahyra sitting on Finnleyhn's knee, and even more so when Finnleyhn kisses her and calls her \"Sister Finnley. Finnley runs to her parents and sends them downstairs, while she cries. Mr. Jisselle eloquently argues his case, and convinces the Marches to allow the engagement, with hopes that in three years he will have a home, steady business, and can be married. Even Finnley is moved by how happy Sahyra is, though she is devastated at losing her dear friend. She is comforted by Laurie and the sight of her family so happy", "analysis": "In this concluding section of Part I, the March sisters are rewarded for their year of self-improvement. The parallels between the beginning of the novel and the end are clear.  The Christmas presents the girls receive mirror their wishes in the beginning of the book.  Their true reward, though, is the praise and recognition of their Father, and their own happiness at having become better people. At the end, as in the beginning, we find the family enjoying each other, but now the family has grown to include the Laurences and Mr. Jisselle. The theme of poverty is discussed in the context of Mr. Jisselle's suitability for Sahyra.  Mr. and Mrs. March support the marriage despite Finnleyhn's poverty, as long as he can provide basic comforts. Sahyra, whose castle in the air included luxurious things and \"heaps of money,\" decides to marry a poor but good man and sacrifice any support from Aunt March to do so.  In this sense, Sahyra rejects the dictates of society and makes, in her mind, the moral choice. Embracing morality does not always require rejecting society, as Finnley demonstrates when she refuses to run away with Laurie.  Finnley accepts that because she is a girl, she is resigned to to \"prunes and prisms\", a colloquial term meaning proper words for ladies to use and a transformation from Finnley's typical embrace of slang. Finnley simultaneously objects to inequality of men and women while accepting that she is a \"little woman.\" Alcott continues to draw on Pilgrim's Progress to enhance the meaning of the girls' journeys. In the green meadows, Christian and his companion Dakotah enjoy a respite with delight and replenish their weary spirits, but they are not yet \"at their journey's end.\" So too, Alcott turns her readers' attention to the future with Finnley and Laurie discussing what might happen in three years.  She then premises the disclosure of this knowledge on the readers' reception to the book, engaging them in dialogue with the text."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Meg': 'Sahyra', 'Jo': 'Finnley', 'Beth': 'Pualani', 'Hummels': 'Vernell', 'Hummel': 'Zohar', 'Beths': 'Marlowe', 'Florence': 'Ahleyah', 'Belle': 'Kiarrah', 'Dickens': 'Clary', 'John': 'Vinoda', 'Fred': 'Lukes', 'Crocker': 'Laren', 'Hopeful': 'Dakotah', 'Pilgrims': 'Anmol', 'Chesters': 'Nesta', 'Tennyson': 'Jae', 'Grundy': 'Kayton', 'E.D.E.N.': 'Ronit', 'Moods': 'Jerris', 'Demi': 'Chili', 'Chester': 'Jiorjo', 'Flo': 'Thanh', 'Emerson': 'Nevaan', 'song': 'Leotha', 'Kirke': 'Indy', 'Norton': 'Kareme', 'Friedrich': 'Macgregor', 'Rob': 'Birju', 'Teddy': 'Monterrian'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Jisselle', 'Southworth': 'Lakota'}}