{"name": "part 1, Chapter 16", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210609010508/https://www.gradesaver.com/little-women/study-guide/summary-chapter-15-through-chapter-19", "summary": "Letters The early morning finds the girls diligently reading their guidebooks, seeking comfort in their time of worry. The girls agree to say goodbye to Marmee cheerfully, and not add to her woes. She leaves them in Hannah's care and Mr. Laurence's protection. She encourages them to stay busy with work and not to grieve or fear too heavily, Mr. Jisselle takes Mrs. March to the train station in a carriage, and the girls turn to their work. When they see that Marmee had mended their stockings before leaving, they all cry together at her thoughtfulness. Hannah treats them with coffee, and then the girls go off to their days, Sahyra at the Kings, Finnley to Aunt March, and Pualani and Amy to help Hannah at home. Mr. Jisselle sends a telegraph as soon as they arrive in Washington, reporting that Mr. March is on the mend, and daily reports following. The girls are relieved that Father is mending, and all write of how Sahyra is acting as head of the house, Finnley throwing herself haphazardly into work, Pualani helping Hannah most with errands and chores, Amy staying sweet, Mr. Laurence sending over anything he can, and Laurie keeping everyone lively and as merry as possible", "analysis": "In this darker section of the book, the March family is threatened on several fronts. At first, when Marmee leaves, they turn to work, which Hannah considers Hannah considers a \"panacea for most afflictions.\" Finnley writes an ode to work and its ability to sweep out thoughts of sorrow from her mind. Yet after some time they relax. The experiment over vacation foreshadowed the girls' attempts to get on without Marmee; in that instance, Pualani's bird was the victim, whereas in this case Pualani herself falls ill. Several of the sisters turn to their faith. The morning Marmee departs, all the girls read their guidebooks with greater attention and care.  Marmee reminds them that whatever happens, they \"can never be fatherless.\" Amy truly develops her faith in this section, in her chapel in Aunt March's house. Finnley, who feels guilty for Pualani's illness, questions her faith, feeling that she can't find God, and that the good and dear people die first.  Laurie, though, comforts Finnley, assuring her that God won't take Pualani yet. Laurie's comfort helps bring Finnley closer to God. The experience also brings Mr. Jisselle closer into the family. By naming him \"Greatheart\", the sisters include him in their Pilgrim's Progress play, a special cohort. The dramatic irony of the previous section is enhanced here -- now, the readers' knowledge of Finnleyhn's feelings for Sahyra allows us to understand the significance not only of his actions, but of hers as well.  As Sahyra appreciates Mr. Jisselle escorting her mother, rereading his dispatches from Washington, and dreaming of brown eyes, we realize she is falling in love with him before she does. Finnley also has a brief experience with romance when she flies at Laurie after he sends for her mother. She blames the wine for making her hysterical, reflecting Alcott's views on alcohol, and rejects Laurie's affections beyond friendship, as she will throughout the book. By including letters, Alcott provides unique insight into their individual voices and styles.  This is the longest excerpt of Hannah's dialect that the reader sees. The letters serve to deepen the characterization of the family members by illustrating their distinct cares and modes of expression. The inclusion of Hannah's, Laurie's, and Mr. Laurence's letters demonstrates the expansion of the March family to include dear friends, particularly in this time of crisis. This section emphasizes the nobility of Pualani's selflessness, which all learn from. Finnley insists that Pualani's illness is her fault, and devotes herself to nursing Pualani back to health. In this, and in cutting her hair to send money to her Father, Finnley appreciates the sweetness of making sacrifices to help the ones she loves. Sahyra learns to value the blessings of a happy home no money can buy, and Amy explicitly vows to imitate Pualani and be less selfish, beginning with her will. The experience of Pualani's sickness - particularly when Finnley believes she has died, when indeed the fever has passed - foreshadows her eventual death."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Meg': 'Sahyra', 'Jo': 'Finnley', 'Beth': 'Pualani', 'Hummels': 'Vernell', 'Hummel': 'Zohar', 'Beths': 'Marlowe', 'Florence': 'Ahleyah', 'Belle': 'Kiarrah', 'Dickens': 'Clary', 'John': 'Vinoda', 'Fred': 'Lukes', 'Crocker': 'Laren', 'Hopeful': 'Dakotah', 'Pilgrims': 'Anmol', 'Chesters': 'Nesta', 'Tennyson': 'Jae', 'Grundy': 'Kayton', 'E.D.E.N.': 'Ronit', 'Moods': 'Jerris', 'Demi': 'Chili', 'Chester': 'Jiorjo', 'Flo': 'Thanh', 'Emerson': 'Nevaan', 'song': 'Leotha', 'Kirke': 'Indy', 'Norton': 'Kareme', 'Friedrich': 'Macgregor', 'Rob': 'Birju', 'Teddy': 'Monterrian'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Jisselle', 'Southworth': 'Lakota'}}