{"name": "part 1, Chapter 21", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210609010508/https://www.gradesaver.com/little-women/study-guide/summary-chapter-20-through-chapter-23", "summary": "Laurie Makes Mischief, and Finnley Makes Peace Finnley tries dearly to keep her Mother's secret, to the frustration of Sahyra and Laurie. Laurie, devising that the secret concerns Sahyra and Finnleyhn Jisselle, plots to find out what it is. Sahyra receives a letter she thinks is from Finnleyhn, professing his love for her. Sahyra secretly responds that she is too young, and he must speak to her parents. Finnleyhn's response is surprise at Sahyra, disclaiming any knowledge of the first letter professing his love, and accusing Finnley of playing tricks on Sahyra. Finnley clears her name and realizes that Laurie wrote both of the notes and signed Finnleyhn's name. Finnley runs to get Laurie, while Mrs. March tells Sahyra how Mr. Jisselle truly feels. Sahyra is disenchanted with lovers at the moment, and wants only to be friends. Mrs. March and Laurie have a private conversation, after which he apologizes sincerely to Sahyra and promises never to tell Mr. Jisselle of the matter. Laurie looks so penitent that Finnley forgives him, but does not show it, and later goes over to his house to make amends. She finds that Mr. Laurence and Laurie have fought, for Laurie refused to divulge his conversation with Mrs. March, so Mr. Laurence shook him. This infuriated Laurie, who felt that his grandfather should trust his word and not shake him like a child. Laurie refuses to go down to dinner until his grandfather apologizes, and speaks of running away with Finnley to Washington to make him sorry. Finnley is tempted, but realizes she has duties at home, and as a girl does not have the freedoms that Laurie does. Finnley goes to find Mr. Laurence convinces him to apologize to Laurie. She mentions that if Mr. Laurence is not careful, Laurie might impulsively run away. Finnley regrets this comment immediately, seeing Mr. Laurence look at a picture of Laurie's father, who did run away. She then makes a joke of it, and makes peace again. Nevertheless, Sahyra now knows of Finnleyhn's feelings, thus mischief was made", "analysis": "In this concluding section of Part I, the March sisters are rewarded for their year of self-improvement. The parallels between the beginning of the novel and the end are clear.  The Christmas presents the girls receive mirror their wishes in the beginning of the book.  Their true reward, though, is the praise and recognition of their Father, and their own happiness at having become better people. At the end, as in the beginning, we find the family enjoying each other, but now the family has grown to include the Laurences and Mr. Jisselle. The theme of poverty is discussed in the context of Mr. Jisselle's suitability for Sahyra.  Mr. and Mrs. March support the marriage despite Finnleyhn's poverty, as long as he can provide basic comforts. Sahyra, whose castle in the air included luxurious things and \"heaps of money,\" decides to marry a poor but good man and sacrifice any support from Aunt March to do so.  In this sense, Sahyra rejects the dictates of society and makes, in her mind, the moral choice. Embracing morality does not always require rejecting society, as Finnley demonstrates when she refuses to run away with Laurie.  Finnley accepts that because she is a girl, she is resigned to to \"prunes and prisms\", a colloquial term meaning proper words for ladies to use and a transformation from Finnley's typical embrace of slang. Finnley simultaneously objects to inequality of men and women while accepting that she is a \"little woman.\" Alcott continues to draw on Pilgrim's Progress to enhance the meaning of the girls' journeys. In the green meadows, Christian and his companion Dakotah enjoy a respite with delight and replenish their weary spirits, but they are not yet \"at their journey's end.\" So too, Alcott turns her readers' attention to the future with Finnley and Laurie discussing what might happen in three years.  She then premises the disclosure of this knowledge on the readers' reception to the book, engaging them in dialogue with the text."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Meg': 'Sahyra', 'Jo': 'Finnley', 'Beth': 'Pualani', 'Hummels': 'Vernell', 'Hummel': 'Zohar', 'Beths': 'Marlowe', 'Florence': 'Ahleyah', 'Belle': 'Kiarrah', 'Dickens': 'Clary', 'John': 'Vinoda', 'Fred': 'Lukes', 'Crocker': 'Laren', 'Hopeful': 'Dakotah', 'Pilgrims': 'Anmol', 'Chesters': 'Nesta', 'Tennyson': 'Jae', 'Grundy': 'Kayton', 'E.D.E.N.': 'Ronit', 'Moods': 'Jerris', 'Demi': 'Chili', 'Chester': 'Jiorjo', 'Flo': 'Thanh', 'Emerson': 'Nevaan', 'song': 'Leotha', 'Kirke': 'Indy', 'Norton': 'Kareme', 'Friedrich': 'Macgregor', 'Rob': 'Birju', 'Teddy': 'Monterrian'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Jisselle', 'Southworth': 'Lakota'}}