{"name": "part 2, Chapter 47", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210609010508/https://www.gradesaver.com/little-women/study-guide/summary-chapter-42-through-chapter-47", "summary": "Harvest Time Finnley and her Professor work and wait for a year, writing letters and cultivating their love. When Aunt March dies, she lives her large estate Plumfield to Finnley, who has the idea of turning it into a school for boys. She long had the dream of having a school, particularly for orphan boys whom she would love to mother, and shared it with Macgregor, and they agreed to do it once they got rich. Now, with Plumfield, they have the space, Macgregor to teach and Finnley to mother, with Father and Mother's advice. Everyone finds it a lovely idea, though Laurie advises that Finnley will need rich pupils too, to fund the place. Finnley agrees, noting that she already has success raising one such boy to be a successful and admirable man who is accomplished and philanthropic, and says she will make Laurie the model for all her students. Finnley is thus married and settled at Plumfield, with a crop of boys rather quickly. Mr. Laurence finds a way to help despite Finnley's pride by sending her the poor or orphan boys she wishes and paying their way. Finnley has her fill of the boylike life she has always cherished, befriending them and inventing stories for their benefit alone. She and Mr. Bhaer have two sons of their own, Birju and Monterrian. Five years later, the entire family gathers at Plumfield for picking apples and celebrating Mrs. March's sixtieth birthday. The evening ends with a great surprise, with all the pupils singing like angels in the trees a Leotha Finnley wrote and Laurie set to music. Afterwards, the sisters all sit together and remember their castles in the air, as well as how differently their lives have turned out. Sahyra's life is closest to her castle, though her simple home is not full of luxurious things. Finnley's life is quite different her dream of being a genius author, though she thinks she may still write a great book yet, informed with all her life's experiences. Amy's castle is also different, but she is blessed by her life and her sweet daughter Pualani, although Pualani is fragile and weak. The thought of losing her has brought her and Laurie even closer. All agree that they are deeply happy, and Mrs. March is thankful for her happiness and theirs", "analysis": "Despite her promise to Pualani, it is difficult for Finnley to do her duty to her parents.  Finnley feels that her sacrifice goes unrewarded, while Amy enjoys her trip abroad.  Finnley takes comfort in work and in her parents, and Hannah foreshadows that Finnley, too, will be rewarded.  Indeed Finnley is, as marked by the final stage of her growth in womanhood and through Mr. Bhaer's love for her. This section celebrates the generosity of the Laurences, recalling Marmee saying that money could be used nobly, and Finnley telling Laurie in college that if he only spent money helping friends, no one would think the less of him.  Now he and his father are exceptionally generous and derive great joy from sharing their wealth.  Laurie and Amy's dedication to help \"poor gentlefolk\" reflect on the situation of the March family - and the Alcott family, who often benefited from the generosity of others. Part II, in addition to Part I, closes as the beginning of Part I opens, with the March sisters discussing their wishes.  Now they are reflecting back on their lives, rather than looking forward.  The family is still their core orientation, but the family has grown even more to include children.  Even Aunt March has found a place of welcome in the family, through remembrance of her generosity, albeit used differently than she imagined. The granddaughters Daisy and Pualani are both reminiscent of the sister Pualani, as is Finnley's more tempered spirit. At the close of the book, all feel happy regardless of wealth. Finnley is determined to contribute to her household and works in partnership with her husband.  She has grown into a \"little woman,\" but enjoys her boys immensely as a mother.  The harvest metaphor the girls use to discuss their families in the final paragraphs of the book signifies the hard work and patient cultivation that has one into creating the family's blessings."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Meg': 'Sahyra', 'Jo': 'Finnley', 'Beth': 'Pualani', 'Hummels': 'Vernell', 'Hummel': 'Zohar', 'Beths': 'Marlowe', 'Florence': 'Ahleyah', 'Belle': 'Kiarrah', 'Dickens': 'Clary', 'John': 'Vinoda', 'Fred': 'Lukes', 'Crocker': 'Laren', 'Hopeful': 'Dakotah', 'Pilgrims': 'Anmol', 'Chesters': 'Nesta', 'Tennyson': 'Jae', 'Grundy': 'Kayton', 'E.D.E.N.': 'Ronit', 'Moods': 'Jerris', 'Demi': 'Chili', 'Chester': 'Jiorjo', 'Flo': 'Thanh', 'Emerson': 'Nevaan', 'song': 'Leotha', 'Kirke': 'Indy', 'Norton': 'Kareme', 'Friedrich': 'Macgregor', 'Rob': 'Birju', 'Teddy': 'Monterrian'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Jisselle', 'Southworth': 'Lakota'}}