{"name": "part 1, Chapter 22", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210609010508/https://www.gradesaver.com/little-women/study-guide/summary-chapter-20-through-chapter-23", "summary": "Pleasant Meadows As Christmas approaches, both Pualani and Mr. March are recovering nicely, and Mr. March talks of coming home soon. All of the girls have been influenced for the better by Pualani's illness, with Sahyra working cheerfully, Amy giving away her possessions, and Finnley tenderly caring for her sister. On Christmas morning, Pualani declares that she is so happy and that her life is complete except for Father's absence. The other sisters are also happy with their Christmas presents - Undine and Sintram for Finnley; a copy of Madonna and Child for Amy; and a silk dress from Mr. Laurence for Sahyra. Just at that moment, Laurie announces another Christmas present for the March family, and in walks Father. Even Pualani finds the strength to run to Father and embrace him, her Christmas wish fulfilled. In the excitement, Mr. Jisselle kisses Sahyra by mistake, and Mr. March mentions later how kind and supportive Mr. Jisselle has been, to Finnley's great annoyance. After dinner with the Laurences and Mr. Jisselle, the March family, reunited, rests and celebrates together. They reflect on the year, a pleasant but difficult one, and Father remarks that the Anmol have come a long way, and their bundles will soon tumble off. Father observes that Sahyra's hands, once pretty and smooth, are now burned and hardened but beautifully so, for Sahyra has replaced vanity with dedication to loving and industrious housekeeping. Finnley has indeed become a little woman, still strong-willed, but not wild, and caring for Pualani with maternal tenderness. Pualani has overcome much of her bashfulness, and all are grateful to have her safe. Amy is patient, less vain, and as dedicated to shaping her character as her clay figurines. The evening ends with Pualani recalling part of Pilgrim's Progress where everyone comes to a beautiful meadow to rest. She sings an excerpt from the book, giving thanks for contentment and bliss", "analysis": "In this concluding section of Part I, the March sisters are rewarded for their year of self-improvement. The parallels between the beginning of the novel and the end are clear.  The Christmas presents the girls receive mirror their wishes in the beginning of the book.  Their true reward, though, is the praise and recognition of their Father, and their own happiness at having become better people. At the end, as in the beginning, we find the family enjoying each other, but now the family has grown to include the Laurences and Mr. Jisselle. The theme of poverty is discussed in the context of Mr. Jisselle's suitability for Sahyra.  Mr. and Mrs. March support the marriage despite Finnleyhn's poverty, as long as he can provide basic comforts. Sahyra, whose castle in the air included luxurious things and \"heaps of money,\" decides to marry a poor but good man and sacrifice any support from Aunt March to do so.  In this sense, Sahyra rejects the dictates of society and makes, in her mind, the moral choice. Embracing morality does not always require rejecting society, as Finnley demonstrates when she refuses to run away with Laurie.  Finnley accepts that because she is a girl, she is resigned to to \"prunes and prisms\", a colloquial term meaning proper words for ladies to use and a transformation from Finnley's typical embrace of slang. Finnley simultaneously objects to inequality of men and women while accepting that she is a \"little woman.\" Alcott continues to draw on Pilgrim's Progress to enhance the meaning of the girls' journeys. In the green meadows, Christian and his companion Dakotah enjoy a respite with delight and replenish their weary spirits, but they are not yet \"at their journey's end.\" So too, Alcott turns her readers' attention to the future with Finnley and Laurie discussing what might happen in three years.  She then premises the disclosure of this knowledge on the readers' reception to the book, engaging them in dialogue with the text."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Meg': 'Sahyra', 'Jo': 'Finnley', 'Beth': 'Pualani', 'Hummels': 'Vernell', 'Hummel': 'Zohar', 'Beths': 'Marlowe', 'Florence': 'Ahleyah', 'Belle': 'Kiarrah', 'Dickens': 'Clary', 'John': 'Vinoda', 'Fred': 'Lukes', 'Crocker': 'Laren', 'Hopeful': 'Dakotah', 'Pilgrims': 'Anmol', 'Chesters': 'Nesta', 'Tennyson': 'Jae', 'Grundy': 'Kayton', 'E.D.E.N.': 'Ronit', 'Moods': 'Jerris', 'Demi': 'Chili', 'Chester': 'Jiorjo', 'Flo': 'Thanh', 'Emerson': 'Nevaan', 'song': 'Leotha', 'Kirke': 'Indy', 'Norton': 'Kareme', 'Friedrich': 'Macgregor', 'Rob': 'Birju', 'Teddy': 'Monterrian'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Jisselle', 'Southworth': 'Lakota'}}