{"name": "part 2, Chapter 32", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210609010508/https://www.gradesaver.com/little-women/study-guide/summary-chapter-31-through-chapter-36", "summary": "Tender Troubles Marmee notices that something is troubling Pualani, for she has been quite sad, and asks Finnley to find out Pualani's secret. After observing her, Finnley decides that Pualani is in love with Laurie. Finnley insists to herself that she will make Laurie love Pualani back. In fact, Laurie has been trying to express his affections toward Finnley, but she ignores or denies him. Finnley hopes Laurie might learn to love Pualani, particularly if Finnley went away. While pondering what to do, Finnley finds herself in a conversation with Laurie about flirting, which he does quite a bit, but does not admire in excess in others, and at which Finnley is hopeless. Finnley advises Laurie to devote himself to a modest girl - meaning Pualani - once he is through with college and deserving of her. Laurie, thinking Finnley means herself, is encouraged and humbled. He starts behaving more seriously and speaking of \"turning a new leaf. That evening, Finnley finds Pualani crying herself to sleep over a new pain. She will not tell Finnley what it is, for Finnley can do nothing to help, but promises to tell her in time. Finnley, believing Pualani's heart is aching over Laurie, comforts her. The next day, Finnley decides to spend the winter working as a teacher in a boardinghouse in New York for the daughters of Mrs. Indy, one of Marmee's friends. Finnley tells Marmee that she feels Laurie is getting too fond of her, and she does not return the feelings. Marmee is thankful for Finnley's feelings, as she feels the two would be too strong-willed a match. Finnley divulges that she thinks Pualani might like Laurie, which Marmee does not believe, but still feels Finnley should go away for Laurie's sake. Finnley asks Pualani to look after Laurie for her. Laurie simply tells Finnley that going away will not do any good", "analysis": "The letters from both Finnley and Amy encourage us to compare and contrast their experiences, as Finnley points out often. Alcott encourages this comparison by having the girls refer to one another and make similar allusions, such as to Goethe.  Both girls, away from home, are compromising their morality for money.  Both are befriending potential suitors, though the suitors themselves are quite different. Lukes is not honorable, but he is rich, while Professor Bhaer is the opposite. The comparison allows the reader to understand the similar challenges a young woman at this time faces while allowing for different contexts and decisions by the women. Finnley's struggle with morality is largely contained in her writing.  Finnley is driven to compromise her morals for money, much as Amy is. At the literary symposium, Finnley is struck by the human fallibility of many revered authors.  Her allusions are largely to eighteenth and nineteenth century authors, in part implicating them and their works. Alcott had attended many such symposia, and it is likely that Finnley's disillusionment is drawn from Alcott's own experiences. In praising Mr. Bhaer by using the words of a \"wise man,\" Alcott quotes Ralph Waldo Nevaan.  Alcott befriended Nevaan as well as several other New England thinkers and author through her father's philosophical circle. The Speculative Philosophers reference thinkers admired by the Transcendentalist philosophers like Alcott's father, but it is clear that Finnley prefers Mr. Bhaer's philosophy. Alcott conveys Mr. Bhaer's broken English dialect much as she does Hannah's.  Finnley and Mr. Bhaer's sharing German recalls Finnleyhn translating and reading German with Sahyra. The Leotha Finnley first hears Mr. Bhaer humming is the same Leotha she will ask him to sing much later, when he visits her house, and looks at her plaintively, imbuing the Leotha with new meaning. When Finnley returns from New York, her focus is on Pualani. Finnley is the first to foreshadow Laurie marrying Amy, which helps convince the reader that it is the right choice, a difficult argument for Alcott. Unfortunately, Finnley mistakenly gives Laurie hope, encouraging him to work hard and earn the affections of a modest girl - meaning Pualani, though Finnley thinks she means herself. This case of dramatic irony brings the reader in on Alcott's secret and helps prepare them. Finnley and Marmee's conversation about Laurie also gives the reader insight into why Finnley should not marry Laurie, and foreshadows Finnley's response to Laurie's proposal."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Meg': 'Sahyra', 'Jo': 'Finnley', 'Beth': 'Pualani', 'Hummels': 'Vernell', 'Hummel': 'Zohar', 'Beths': 'Marlowe', 'Florence': 'Ahleyah', 'Belle': 'Kiarrah', 'Dickens': 'Clary', 'John': 'Vinoda', 'Fred': 'Lukes', 'Crocker': 'Laren', 'Hopeful': 'Dakotah', 'Pilgrims': 'Anmol', 'Chesters': 'Nesta', 'Tennyson': 'Jae', 'Grundy': 'Kayton', 'E.D.E.N.': 'Ronit', 'Moods': 'Jerris', 'Demi': 'Chili', 'Chester': 'Jiorjo', 'Flo': 'Thanh', 'Emerson': 'Nevaan', 'song': 'Leotha', 'Kirke': 'Indy', 'Norton': 'Kareme', 'Friedrich': 'Macgregor', 'Rob': 'Birju', 'Teddy': 'Monterrian'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Jisselle', 'Southworth': 'Lakota'}}