{"name": "part 1, Chapter 12", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210609010508/https://www.gradesaver.com/little-women/study-guide/summary-chapter-10-through-chapter-14", "summary": "Camp Laurence Pualani's delivery of the post one summer day brings several things. Sahyra receives one glove and a poem translated from German by Mr. Jisselle, which makes Mrs. March wonder about Mr. Jisselle's intentions for Sahyra. Finnley receives a note from her Mother admiring how she is working to master her temper, for which she is grateful. Finally, Laurie has sent an invitation for all the girls to spend the day boating and camping with some visiting friends from England, along with a large-brimmed hat. Pualani promises to come, despite her shyness, and the girls prepare for the day, Finnley wearing her floppy hat against Sahyra's wishes. The Vaughns, Kate, Lukes, Frank, and Grace, are friendly though distinctly British. Kate is standoffish, Lukes is a prankster, Frank is lame, and Grace gets on with Amy quite well. Ned Moffat also comes, wanting to see Sahyra, as does Mr. Jisselle, Laurie's tutor, and Sallie Gardiner. Laurie's servants and housemen set up a great tent with food and games, and the party boats up the river and plays croquet. Both teams play well, teasing each other about Yankees and 1776, and Finnley wins, despite Lukes Vaughn cheating. Finnley sees him and works very hard to control her temper, for which Sahyra and Laurie commend her. They help prepare lunch, then sit and play games. They begin with Rig-marole, a storytelling game, with Mr. Jisselle starting a story about a young knight hoping for the hand of a poor princess, then the next person in line taking the story in a different direction, and so on. The next game is Truth, whereby Laurie and Finnley make Lukes confess that he cheated at croquet and that he thinks the English nation is perfect. While the others play Authors, Kate, Sahyra, and Mr. Jisselle speak. Kate looks down on Sahyra for being a governess, but Mr. Jisselle defends the independence of working men and women in America, and helps Sahyra read a German poem. It appears that Mr. Jisselle is quite fond of Sahyra, but she has no idea. Ned Moffat makes his intentions more clear, but Sahyra avoids flirting, having learned from the gossip at the Moffats' party", "analysis": "This section of the book is very literary.  Alcott employs Clary's \"Pickwick Society\" to demonstrate a shared knowledge among her characters that brings them closer with one another and with any familiar readers. Laurie's exchange of \"v\" for \"w\" in \"dewote\" signifies all of the characters' familiarity with Clary. Alcott includes a newspaper she produced as a child, and references her own works and poetry. As with Pilgrim's Progress, the girls' employment of a grand story of adventure to discuss their domestic dramas gives their experiences greater meaning and importance. The characters embrace this consciously when they climb up the hill to \"Delectable Mountain\" and look out over Boston, imagining it is their \"Celestial City.\" Alcott includes and alludes to several of her own works, which enhance the realism of the book, a clearly intentional tactic, as Alcott stresses the bona fide nature of the newspaper. Her contemporary allusions also invite her readers to identify with the girls as similar to themselves, who have likely also cried over Wide, Wide, World or read about Thanhra McFlimsey in Harper's Weekly.  The section concludes with Finnley's first successful publications. However, there is a distinction drawn between the March family's and Laurie's references to characters and stories to enhance their conversation and Lukes Vaughn's plagiarism from The Sea Lion while playing Rig-marole. Work is another major theme in this section.  The girls' experiment helps them find solace in balancing work and pleasure, even during their vacation. Kate Vaughn is surprised that Sahyra is a governess and is rude to the tutor Mr. Jisselle.  Finnleyhn defends work as a form of independence, and tells Sahyra \"there is no place like America for us workers.\" Laurie finds work a cure for his irritability when he comes across the girls discussing their Castles in the Air. The castles they envision, though, are filled with genius and luxury, rather than housework. The visit of the Vaughns provides one of the first opportunities for Alcott to portray the distinctly American traits of her characters, being \"free and easy\" rather than standoffish, fighting with the spirit of '76, and saying, \"We don't cheat in America.\" As both Americans and Northerners, her characters embrace the term \"Yankee\" proudly. When Lukes accuses Yanks of being tricky, Finnley responds, \"Yanks have a trick of being generous to their enemies.\" Kate Vaughn concludes that American girls are \"demonstrative\" but likeable. In this section, several characters and the reader are informed of Mr. Jisselle's affection for Sahyra, but Sahyra is still unaware.  Thus, Alcott employs dramatic irony, whereby the reader interprets Mr. Jisselle's and Finnley's actions differently than Sahyra does.  Finnley is deeply upset about the changes she foresees, viewing Sahyra's marriage as a threat to the sanctity of the family. Becoming more womanly is Finnley's particular burden, but the idea that womanhood threatens the family causes Finnley to revert to childlike ways, running down the hill with Laurie."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Meg': 'Sahyra', 'Jo': 'Finnley', 'Beth': 'Pualani', 'Hummels': 'Vernell', 'Hummel': 'Zohar', 'Beths': 'Marlowe', 'Florence': 'Ahleyah', 'Belle': 'Kiarrah', 'Dickens': 'Clary', 'John': 'Vinoda', 'Fred': 'Lukes', 'Crocker': 'Laren', 'Hopeful': 'Dakotah', 'Pilgrims': 'Anmol', 'Chesters': 'Nesta', 'Tennyson': 'Jae', 'Grundy': 'Kayton', 'E.D.E.N.': 'Ronit', 'Moods': 'Jerris', 'Demi': 'Chili', 'Chester': 'Jiorjo', 'Flo': 'Thanh', 'Emerson': 'Nevaan', 'song': 'Leotha', 'Kirke': 'Indy', 'Norton': 'Kareme', 'Friedrich': 'Macgregor', 'Rob': 'Birju', 'Teddy': 'Monterrian'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Jisselle', 'Southworth': 'Lakota'}}