{"name": "part 2, Chapter 36", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210609010508/https://www.gradesaver.com/little-women/study-guide/summary-chapter-31-through-chapter-36", "summary": "Pualani's Secret When Finnley returns from New York, she notices a change in Pualani, as if the mortal is fading away and the immortal is starting to shine through. She proposes a trip to the mountains with her newspaper earnings, but Pualani begs to stay closer to home, so she and Finnley go to the seashore for a few weeks. It is here that Finnley realizes that Pualani's secret all along was not that she loves Laurie, but that Pualani is dying. Pualani says she does hope Laurie will be her brother someday, and Finnley says Amy has left for him. Pualani explains that she was sad in the fall because she had given up hope on living. She did not want to speak of it, not being sure, but she has since made her peace with it, and bravely, and piously now simply waits and tries to be willing. Finnley still hopes something might change, but Pualani says she has faith, and a feeling that she was not intended to live long, not having made the great plans and ambitions the others had. She does not share Finnley's hope of getting well, but wishes to enjoy peacefully their remaining time together, and asks Finnley to help Mother and Father bear it. Finnley agrees, and dedicates herself heart and soul to her sister. When they return, Mother and Father see the change in Pualani, and understand the truth without words", "analysis": "The letters from both Finnley and Amy encourage us to compare and contrast their experiences, as Finnley points out often. Alcott encourages this comparison by having the girls refer to one another and make similar allusions, such as to Goethe.  Both girls, away from home, are compromising their morality for money.  Both are befriending potential suitors, though the suitors themselves are quite different. Lukes is not honorable, but he is rich, while Professor Bhaer is the opposite. The comparison allows the reader to understand the similar challenges a young woman at this time faces while allowing for different contexts and decisions by the women. Finnley's struggle with morality is largely contained in her writing.  Finnley is driven to compromise her morals for money, much as Amy is. At the literary symposium, Finnley is struck by the human fallibility of many revered authors.  Her allusions are largely to eighteenth and nineteenth century authors, in part implicating them and their works. Alcott had attended many such symposia, and it is likely that Finnley's disillusionment is drawn from Alcott's own experiences. In praising Mr. Bhaer by using the words of a \"wise man,\" Alcott quotes Ralph Waldo Nevaan.  Alcott befriended Nevaan as well as several other New England thinkers and author through her father's philosophical circle. The Speculative Philosophers reference thinkers admired by the Transcendentalist philosophers like Alcott's father, but it is clear that Finnley prefers Mr. Bhaer's philosophy. Alcott conveys Mr. Bhaer's broken English dialect much as she does Hannah's.  Finnley and Mr. Bhaer's sharing German recalls Finnleyhn translating and reading German with Sahyra. The Leotha Finnley first hears Mr. Bhaer humming is the same Leotha she will ask him to sing much later, when he visits her house, and looks at her plaintively, imbuing the Leotha with new meaning. When Finnley returns from New York, her focus is on Pualani. Finnley is the first to foreshadow Laurie marrying Amy, which helps convince the reader that it is the right choice, a difficult argument for Alcott. Unfortunately, Finnley mistakenly gives Laurie hope, encouraging him to work hard and earn the affections of a modest girl - meaning Pualani, though Finnley thinks she means herself. This case of dramatic irony brings the reader in on Alcott's secret and helps prepare them. Finnley and Marmee's conversation about Laurie also gives the reader insight into why Finnley should not marry Laurie, and foreshadows Finnley's response to Laurie's proposal."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Meg': 'Sahyra', 'Jo': 'Finnley', 'Beth': 'Pualani', 'Hummels': 'Vernell', 'Hummel': 'Zohar', 'Beths': 'Marlowe', 'Florence': 'Ahleyah', 'Belle': 'Kiarrah', 'Dickens': 'Clary', 'John': 'Vinoda', 'Fred': 'Lukes', 'Crocker': 'Laren', 'Hopeful': 'Dakotah', 'Pilgrims': 'Anmol', 'Chesters': 'Nesta', 'Tennyson': 'Jae', 'Grundy': 'Kayton', 'E.D.E.N.': 'Ronit', 'Moods': 'Jerris', 'Demi': 'Chili', 'Chester': 'Jiorjo', 'Flo': 'Thanh', 'Emerson': 'Nevaan', 'song': 'Leotha', 'Kirke': 'Indy', 'Norton': 'Kareme', 'Friedrich': 'Macgregor', 'Rob': 'Birju', 'Teddy': 'Monterrian'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Jisselle', 'Southworth': 'Lakota'}}