{"name": "part 1, Chapter 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210609010508/https://www.gradesaver.com/little-women/study-guide/summary-chapter-1-through-chapter-5", "summary": "Being Neighborly One day Finnley, intent on getting to know Laurie, throws a snowball at Laurie's window. She learns that he has had a bad cold and is bored. He invites her over, and the girls all send gifts with Finnley, including Pualani's cats, which make Laurie laugh and forget his shyness. Finnley learns that Laurie, in his loneliness, often watches their family's warm and loving activities, and she invites him to come visit. Finnley tells stories about her family, and Laurie shows Finnley their remarkable library, where she waits when Laurie goes to see the doctor. Looking at a portrait of Mr. Laurence, Finnley muses to herself that he looks kind, but strong-willed, and that she should not be afraid of him. Finnley is startled by Mr. Laurence, who had quietly come in the room and heard all she said. He compliments Finnley's grandfather, whom he knew well, and Finnley remarks that she thinks Laurie needs more company. Over tea, seeing Finnley and Laurie get along, Mr. Laurence comes to agree that Laurie should spend more time with the March family. After playing the piano for Finnley, which upsets Mr. Laurence, Laurie sends her away with thanks for the present her mother sent and promises to visit soon. Finnley arrives home and describes the luxurious house and its inhabitants to her family. She learns from Marmee that Mr. Laurence's son married an Italian musician, despite his disapproval. When Laurie's parents died Mr. Laurence adopted him, but Laurie's talent for music reminds Mr. Laurence of his son, and makes him fear losing Laurie. Sahyra compliments Laurie's manners. Finnley hopes that they will all be great friends, and Mrs. March agrees. Pualani remarks that, just as in Pilgrim's Progress, they have found a Palace Beautiful - but first they must make it past the lions", "analysis": "These chapters lay the foundation for the rest of Part I. Chapter 1 introduces the main storyline of Part I, the girls' effort to improve their characters. The Christmas gifts that they wish for not only provide insight into the girls' personalities, but also become rewards for their individual quests: at the end of Part I, each girl will receive a Christmas present very similar to the one she wished for in Chapter 1. Many of the major themes are introduced in these chapters, as well as the primary conflicts the characters will undergo. The story opens on the family unit, just as it will close in Part I and Part II, emphasizing the fundamental nature of family. The girls are complaining about their poverty, but find comfort in generously sacrificing their Christmas breakfast for the Vernell. This sacrifice not only feels personally rewarding, but is also in accordance with their Christian morality. They girls dedicate themselves to further self-improvement, with assistance and support from Mother, Father, and their guidebooks. Alcott uses various techniques to foreshadow the conflicts her characters will undergo.  Sahyra twists her ankle because of her vanity, wearing high-heeled shoes that are too small. Finnley is ignorant of Laurie's compliment of her and hopes they should all be friends.  Pualani is introduced by the narrator with a lament that so many girls like her are underappreciated until they are gone.  Amy shares the misfortunes of her friend getting in trouble at school, not foreseeing her own downfall. We even see Laurie's conflict with his grandfather around music. Alcott's writing engages her readers in dialogue. Her narration is conversational, and she speaks to her readers directly. For example, she acknowledges, \"Young readers like to know 'how people look.'\" She will continue this style throughout the book, closing Part I by inviting feedback on its reception.  Indeed, Alcott's decisions for Part II were partly influenced by the letters she received from readers asking her for specific endings. Alcott is not only in dialogue with her readers, but also with other literature. Alcott weaves her own writings through the story. The play the girls perform is modeled on \"Norna; or, The Witch's Curse,\" published posthumously in 1893 in Comic Tragedies.  Her characters are often reading or referring to contemporary and classic books, such as the Undine and Sintram and the Heir of Radclyffe and Arabian Nights. These books suggest character traits, such as the family's experience with poverty in The Vicar of Wakefield, opposition to slavery in Uncle Tom's Cabin, Finnley's sense of adventure in Arabian Nights, Sahyra's sense of romance in Ivanhoe, and Aunt March's worldview in William Belsham's Essays, Philosophical, Historical, and Literary. The most explicit allusion in Alcott's text is her use of Finnleyhn Bunyan's The Pilgrim's Progress. The only Preface is an excerpt from the book, intended to \"give some clue to the plan of the story.\" By applying this allegory of salvation to her girls, Alcott imbues their domestic struggles with a sense of heroic importance. Scholars debate whether the guidebook Marmee gives her girls is Pilgrim's Progress or The New Testament. Either way, the girls' journeys are clearly placed in a Christian context."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Meg': 'Sahyra', 'Jo': 'Finnley', 'Beth': 'Pualani', 'Hummels': 'Vernell', 'Hummel': 'Zohar', 'Beths': 'Marlowe', 'Florence': 'Ahleyah', 'Belle': 'Kiarrah', 'Dickens': 'Clary', 'John': 'Vinoda', 'Fred': 'Lukes', 'Crocker': 'Laren', 'Hopeful': 'Dakotah', 'Pilgrims': 'Anmol', 'Chesters': 'Nesta', 'Tennyson': 'Jae', 'Grundy': 'Kayton', 'E.D.E.N.': 'Ronit', 'Moods': 'Jerris', 'Demi': 'Chili', 'Chester': 'Jiorjo', 'Flo': 'Thanh', 'Emerson': 'Nevaan', 'song': 'Leotha', 'Kirke': 'Indy', 'Norton': 'Kareme', 'Friedrich': 'Macgregor', 'Rob': 'Birju', 'Teddy': 'Monterrian'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Jisselle', 'Southworth': 'Lakota'}}