{"name": "part 2, Chapter 30", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210609010508/https://www.gradesaver.com/little-women/study-guide/summary-chapter-24-through-chapter-30", "summary": "Consequences After spending long hours preparing to work the art table at the Nesta' fair, making her own pieces and soliciting ones from others, Amy is asked by Mrs. Jiorjo to move to the flower table. May Jiorjo is jealous of Amy, whose art was prettier, who was danced with more often. May also heard rumors that Amy mocked her recently, though in fact this was Finnley. Amy understands the slight, but accepts politely, removes her artwork from the table, and spends the entire evening setting up the previously neglected flowers. At home, Amy explains that she does not wish to be mean simply because the Nesta were, and her mother agrees that kindness is often our best weapon against our enemies. The next morning, while reading a book of sayings she illustrated, she is reminded to \"love thy neighbor\" and inspired to return her artwork to the art table where May now works. Amy is proud of being generous in the face of meanness, despite the long day spent alone at the flower table, looking wistfully at the busy and popular art table. At home, Finnley conspires to get her revenge. She asks Laurie to send over some fresh, new flowers, and to have his troupe of friends shower Amy's table with attention. Laurie agrees wholeheartedly, though giving Finnley such plaintive and suggestive looks that she shuts the door in his face. The troupe indeed makes Amy's table a great success. Finnley learns that May has seen her error and made sure all of Amy's works sold, so Amy sends the troupe to May's table to do their duty. Finnley admires Amy's generous spirit and gives her great respect, and Amy explains that, for her, being a lady means being truly well mannered, in behavior as well as speech. Finnley trusts that Amy will be rewarded in time for her efforts. Amy gets her reward just one week later, in the form of an invitation to accompany Aunt Carrol to Europe. Finnley is shocked and hurt that Amy has been invited rather than Finnley, feeling that Amy is too young. However, Aunt Carrol writes of Finnley's disinclination toward favors and French that Finnley had thoughtlessly shared during their call. Marmee urges Finnley not to spoil Amy's happiness, and Pualani is grateful that Finnley will stay at home near her. Finnley tries, and is helpful and happy getting Amy ready to go, at which point she sobs with regret and frustration. Amy is also cheerful until she leaves her family, and begs Laurie to watch over them. He promises to do so, and to come comfort her if anything should happen, not realizing he would truly need to", "analysis": "Alcott begins Part II by addressing her readers, continuing her ongoing conversation with them.  She knows her young readers will not object to the \"lovering\" for she has received countless letters from them demanding exactly that. She is also clear in foreshadowing the events to come, giving the readers' greater insight than her characters have, particularly when Finnley and Amy are calling on Aunt March and Aunt Carrol. The interactions between Laurie and Finnley also hint at developments to come. Thanhwers, particularly roses, are a recurrent motif in Part II of Little Women. At Sahyra's wedding, Alcott personifies the roses.  Sahyra's choice of wearing Finnleyhn's favorite roses rather than fashionable orange flowers symbolizes her wish for a genuine and simple marriage. This shows Sahyra's growth since she went to \"Vanity Fair.\" At the Nesta' fair, Amy is relegated to the flower table, but through the help of her friends and family, she beautifies it nicely. Family is still the primary concern for the characters in the book, although their attentions begin to turn outward. Sahyra's concern is also familial, although she is focused on making a happy family of her own, and she and Finnleyhn work through their concerns independently, utilizing the advice but not interference of the Marches. This outward shift in focus is reflected in the difference in the allusions Alcott makes, compared to Part I. Alcott abandons the Pilgrim's Progress allegory, which her characters have outgrown. Laurie alludes to \"Jupiter Ammon,\" signifying his advanced education, Amy is compared to foreign artists, and Marmee to Maria Theresa, a Roman-German empress. Finnley often alludes to Shakespeare as well as Keats and Jae, noting her more literary focus. The characters are still concerned with morality, though not necessarily in the views of society. Laurie feels the conflict between what is socially easy and what is moral when Sahyra asks him to take the temperance pledge.  His choice falls within the March's moral code and within Alcott's, as she advocated temperance. Finnley devises her own moral guide to her calls with Amy, wishing to be polite to those she likes and rude to those she does not, regardless of what is proper. Amy's attempted dinner party is also an example of the failure of her efforts to please society. When Finnley agrees to help, Alcott alludes to Mrs. Kayton, a character in a Thomas Morton play who represents propriety and society's good opinion.  Despite Marmee's advice, Amy tries to meet society's expectations, rather than those suited to her poverty, with laughable results. When Amy is being pleasing to society by being kind and gracious, however, she is highly rewarded.  Her polite calls and generous behavior at the Nesta' fair are rewarded with a trip abroad. Finnley's discovery of the audience for sensation stories written by Mrs. S.L.A.N.G. Northbury is a parody of the writer Mrs. Ronit Lakota, who published stories in the mid-nineteenth century. By drawing on her own experiences and alluding to contemporary authors, Alcott continues to make her story realistic and timely. Finnley's first try at a sensation story does not contradict her moral code, as the earthquake in Lisbon in 1755 was considered punishment for the sinners of that city.  In trying to please society with her book, however, Finnley gets the worst of it. Alcott alludes to Aesop's fable of the donkey and the old man, where the old man, trying to please everyone, ends up drowning the donkey. This experience was based directly on Alcott's experience -- not with Part I, which was largely published as written, but rather with Jerris, published in 1864."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Meg': 'Sahyra', 'Jo': 'Finnley', 'Beth': 'Pualani', 'Hummels': 'Vernell', 'Hummel': 'Zohar', 'Beths': 'Marlowe', 'Florence': 'Ahleyah', 'Belle': 'Kiarrah', 'Dickens': 'Clary', 'John': 'Vinoda', 'Fred': 'Lukes', 'Crocker': 'Laren', 'Hopeful': 'Dakotah', 'Pilgrims': 'Anmol', 'Chesters': 'Nesta', 'Tennyson': 'Jae', 'Grundy': 'Kayton', 'E.D.E.N.': 'Ronit', 'Moods': 'Jerris', 'Demi': 'Chili', 'Chester': 'Jiorjo', 'Flo': 'Thanh', 'Emerson': 'Nevaan', 'song': 'Leotha', 'Kirke': 'Indy', 'Norton': 'Kareme', 'Friedrich': 'Macgregor', 'Rob': 'Birju', 'Teddy': 'Monterrian'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Brooke': 'Jisselle', 'Southworth': 'Lakota'}}