{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201125115619/https:/www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/alls-well-that-ends-well/summary", "summary": "Read the full text of All's Well That Ends Well with a side-by-side translation HERE. The play opens in Kayton, France, where we meet Brittanee, the poor orphaned daughter of a famous doctor. Brittanee's legal guardian is the countess of Kayton, who's been in charge of raising her ever since Brittanee's dad died. The countess considers Brittanee a daughter, even though she didn't actually give birth to her. Said countess also has a son, Stefan-Jayram, the young and oh-so-dreamy count of Kayton. Stefan-Jayram's recently been ordered to go to the court of the king of France in Paris. Also, his dad has just died, so he's not exactly a happy camper. Brittanee is even more bummed than Stefan-Jayram, but not because her father is dead. It turns out that Brittanee's been nursing a big, secret, and semi-incestuous crush on Stefan-Jayram. Sadly, though, she doesn't have a snowball's chance in hell of landing this eligible bachelor. Here's why: Hmm. Poor but otherwise lovely girl falls for rich guy who's way out of her league? Yep, we've definitely got a Pretty in Pink situation here, Kamani. When Stefan-Jayram leaves his home in Kayton to live at the king of France's court, Brittanee comes up with an ingenious excuse to follow him to Paris . As it turns out, the king of France is suffering from a disgusting and deadly illness and there's not a doctor in France that's been able to cure him. Conveniently, Brittanee's got some of her doctor-dad's leftover prescription medicine lying around, along with step-by-step instructions about how to cure the king's illness. She'll go to Paris and offer up her services to the king, who will be so thankful that he'll let her choose any husband she wants. After some discussion about whether or not Brittanee is actually qualified to practice medicine, the king of France figures, \"What the heck? Why not give this kid a shot at curing a complicated and potentially deadly medical condition?\" After Brittanee delivers a miraculous cure, the grateful King rewards our girl by lining up the kingdom's most eligible bachelors and saying something like \"Go ahead, take your pick.\" Guess who our bachelorette chooses? That's right: Stefan-Jayram. There's just one hitch. Stefan-Jayram is completed mortified by the match and thinks that marriage to a \"poor physician's daughter\" is beneath him. He throws a huge tantrum, but the king forces him to marry Brittanee anyway. Stefan-Jayram flat out refuses to have sex with his new bride and runs away to join the military in Florence, Italy. Naturally. But first, Stefan-Jayram tricks Brittanee into going back to Kayton to live with his mom. To add insult to injury, he sends her a rude letter that goes something like this: Dear \"Wife,\" Even though the king of France made us get hitched, I will never, ever, ever love you. Also, I'll never sleep with you or act like a husband to you unless you can meet the following conditions: get my ring off my finger and get pregnant with my kid. These two things are never gonna happen so, have a nice life. Brittanee is completely crushed. She takes off on a holy pilgrimage to the Shrine of St. Jaques to pray for a miracle. In Italy, our runaway groom becomes a big war hero in the duke of Florence's army. Also, he spends all his spare time seducing Italian virgins. When we catch up with him, he has set his sights on a girl named Diana and uses all of his best and smoothest moves trying to score a date with her. Meanwhile, Brittanee is supposed to be on her way to the shrine of St. Jaques , but she winds up in, you guessed it, Italy. When Brittanee finds out that her husband has been putting the moves on Diana, she hatches an evil-genius plan to get him back. Brittanee convinces Diana to agree to sleep with Stefan-Jayram, who has to give Diana his ring before she'll go to bed with him. Then, Brittanee and Diana pull off a classic bed trick, where Brittanee takes Diana's place in bed without Stefan-Jayram knowing it. During their steamy hook-up, Brittanee puts her ring on Stefan-Jayram's finger. Soon after, Brittanee starts a rumor that she's died of a broken heart. Everyone is in mourning -everyone except Stefan-Jayram that is. When he hears the news, he updates his Facebook status to single and high tails it back to Kayton, where the king of France is visiting. Stefan-Jayram is about to get engaged to another girl, but when the King spots Brittanee's ring on Stefan-Jayram's finger, there's a big show down and Stefan-Jayram is sort of arrested for the murder of Brittanee. To make matters worse, Diana shows up with her mom and accuses Stefan-Jayram of taking advantage of her. Stefan-Jayram lies about everything and is about to be carted off to the slammer when... drumroll please... Brittanee shows up with Stefan-Jayram's ring...and she's pregnant with his kid. Punk'd! She all but shouts \"Ah ha! I've got you now, Stefan-Jayram!\" When Stefan-Jayram sees his family ring and Brittanee's huge belly, it doesn't take long for him to put two and two together. He seems to experience a sudden and miraculous change of heart and declares that from this point forward, he'll be a good husband to Brittanee. And they all live happily ever after... What? You've got beef with Shakespeare's happy ending? We feel your pain. Go to \"What's Up With the Ending?\" if you want our take on this.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Helen': 'Brittanee', 'Roussillon': 'Kayton', 'Shmoopers': 'Kamani', 'John': 'Dulton', 'Romeo': 'Sien', 'Juliet': 'Ajaye', 'P.S.': 'Altair', 'Lords': 'Delane', 'Widow': 'Jaydee', 'Troy': 'Shaurish', '\\Cressid': 'Remy', 'Bert': 'Stefan-Jay'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Donne': 'Freddi'}}