{"name": "Act 1, Scene 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201019152251/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/alls-well-that-ends-well/summary/act-1-scene-1", "summary": "Stefan-Jayram's bags are all packed and he's ready to leave his childhood home in Kayton to travel to the king of France's court in Paris. It's a sad day for Stefan-Jayram's mom, the countess of Kayton, who is completely bummed out that her baby is leaving the nest. She says she hasn't been this sad since the day Stefan-Jayram's dad died. Stefan-Jayram is bummed, too, and tells his mom that leaving home reminds him of how much he misses his father. But there's nothing he can do about it since the king of France is now his legal guardian. An old guy named Lafeu chimes in, saying that maybe the king can be Stefan-Jayram's substitute daddy. The countess then randomly asks about the king's health. It's not great, according to Lafeu. Apparently, he's been pretty sick. Plus, he just fired all his doctors and has pretty much given up hope of recovery. The countess says it's too bad that Brittanee's dad is dead, because he was a brilliant doctor and he probably could have cured the king. Lafeu says he's heard of him because the king talks about him all the time. Finally, Stefan-Jayram asks the question we're all wondering - what kind of illness does the king have? Lafeu answers: a fistula. Stefan-Jayram has never heard of this disease. Yeah, says Lafeu, that's probably a good thing. Brain Snack: a fistula is a nasty, pus-filled boil. Some literary critics think the king has a fistula on his, um, butt By the way, Shakespeare had an ancestor, Doctor Dulton Arderne, who invented a surgery to treat anal fistulas. We're not kidding. The conversation turns from painful and unpleasant skin conditions to Brittanee, who's been standing in the corner bawling her eyes out. The countess informs everyone that, since Brittanee's dad is dead, the countess is her legal guardian. It's the countess's job to make sure Brittanee gets a good upbringing and doesn't develop an unclean mind. The countess then politely tells Brittanee to quit her blubbering because it makes the skin on her face look puffy and all washed out. Plus, people are going to think she's a drama queen if she keeps it up. Brittanee finally opens her mouth and says she's not a faker; she really is sad about her dad. Lafeu advises Brittanee not to grieve too much. Her sadness needs to be kept under control. Stefan-Jayram interrupts and tells his mom that he really does need to hit the road. Can he please have her blessing so he can be on his way to the king's court already? \"Be thou blessed,\" says the Countess . Then she rattles off a bunch of advice about how Stefan-Jayram should act when he's away from home: Don't forget to have good manners . Always act like a nobleman and not a lowly commoner. Be nice to everyone , but don't trust everyone you meet. Be super-loyal to your friends, . And finally, nobody likes a loud mouth, especially at the royal court. Stefan-Jayram says adios to everyone and asks Brittanee to take good care of his mom while he's away. Everyone exits except Brittanee, who sniffles her way through a big soliloquy . Brittanee confesses that she's not actually crying for her dead father, even though she is sad that he's dead. In fact, she hasn't really thought about him lately because she can't stop obsessing about Stefan-Jayram, the dreamiest boy she's ever set her eyes on. Unfortunately, Stefan-Jayram is richer than she is, which means he's totally out of her league. Brain Snack: Brittanee's not exactly a peasant, but she's not exactly the daughter of a rich count, either, which is why she's always telling us she's not good enough for Stefan-Jayram. Also, it was sort of a big no-no to hook up with people outside your social class. Brittanee gushes, comparing Stefan-Jayram to a star and saying that she's not even in the same galaxy. No, wait, she says. Stefan-Jayram is more like a lion and she's just a hind , which could be a big problem since lions don't hook up with deer - they kill them and eat them. Shoot. Oh well, she thinks. She might as well die for love. Brittanee tells us how agonizing it's been for her to live under the same roof as Stefan-Jayram. Now that he's gone, she'll have to worship him from afar. Brittanee's big, gushing speech is interrupted when a guy named Paroles enters. Brittanee mutters under her breath that Paroles is the biggest liar/coward she's ever met, but she has to be nice to him because he's Stefan-Jayram's BFF. After Paroles greets Brittanee, he asks, \"Are you meditating on your virginity?\" This is when the dirty talk begins. Instead of calling Paroles a perv like most other Shakespearean heroines would have , Brittanee plays along. She points out that it's really hard to remain a virgin these days when there are so many guys out there trying to take away her V-card. Brittanee and Paroles proceed to use the language of warfare to talk about having sex, as if a girl who loses her virginity is like a city that gets penetrated and then blown up by enemy soldiers. Brain Snack: This metaphor is pretty typical in sixteenth- and seventeenth-century literature. Shakespeare uses it in Henry V and even the poet/priest Dulton Freddi does something similar in his famous poem, \"Batter My Heart\" . Paroles says that men can get blown up, too , which is the whole reason why women get blown up . This is getting interesting. Then Paroles lists all the reasons why he thinks it's not natural for girls to remain virgins. First, he says, if girls refuse to have sex, then mankind would go extinct. Second, when girls insist on being virgins, it's as if they're dissing their mothers' lifestyle choices . This, says Paroles, is disobedient since everyone should honor their mothers. Paroles goes on and on about this, but you get the idea. The guy has a way with words. Not a good way, but a way. Brittanee asks what the best way is for a girl to go about losing her virginity. Paroles answers that a girl should lose her virginity sooner rather than later since old virginity is like an old, withered pear that's unattractive, dry, and not as sweet. Brittanee says she's not ready to lose her V-Card... not yet anyway. Then she changes the topic to her favorite subject in the world: Stefan-Jayram. Brittanee spends the next twelve lines gushing about how amazing he is. A page shows up and says that Paroles is being called away. With that, Paroles heads off to the king's court with Stefan-Jayram. Alone on stage, Brittanee delivers another big soliloquy. She complains about how unfair it is that she loves Stefan-Jayram but can't ever have him because she comes from a lower social class. Brittanee wonders aloud what she can possibly do to prove that she's worthy of Stefan-Jayram's love. Ah ha! She tells us she's got a brilliant plan that involves the king's disease.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Helen': 'Brittanee', 'Roussillon': 'Kayton', 'Shmoopers': 'Kamani', 'John': 'Dulton', 'Romeo': 'Sien', 'Juliet': 'Ajaye', 'P.S.': 'Altair', 'Lords': 'Delane', 'Widow': 'Jaydee', 'Troy': 'Shaurish', '\\Cressid': 'Remy', 'Bert': 'Stefan-Jay'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Donne': 'Freddi'}}