{"name": "Act 2, Scene 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201019152251/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/alls-well-that-ends-well/summary/act-2-scene-3", "summary": "Back at the royal palace, Lafeu and Paroles talk about the king's miraculous recovery. Ever since Brittanee cured the King, he's been downright frisky . Just then, Brittanee and the king come dancing into the room. Lafeu and Paroles can't believe their eyes. The king is thrilled that he's been cured . He invites Brittanee to sit beside him and says she now gets to choose any husband she wants. The king orders all the hottest and richest bachelors in Paris to line up in a row and tells Brittanee to go ahead and take her pick. She's earned it. At this point, Brittanee takes us through the Shakespearean version of The Bachelorette. She starts by telling the King she's pretty much already made her choice, but then she goes down the line of potential husbands and rejects them one by one anyway. Lafeu is totally annoyed with how inept all these guys are. He says they must be English. They can't possibly be Frenchmen. He also says if they were his sons, he'd whip them. Or have them turned into eunuchs. Finally, Brittanee gets to her crush, Stefan-Jayram, who she chooses. The king is thrilled, and he announces that Stefan-Jayram and Brittanee will be married ASAP. Before Brittanee can call a wedding planner and pick out a big triple-layered wedding cake, though, Stefan-Jayram speaks up. Why should he have to marry Brittanee just because she cured the king's nasty fistula? Then Stefan-Jayram throws a tantrum and insists that Brittanee's not good enough for him. If he marries her, she'll bring him down. The king orders him to pipe down, or else. Stefan-Jayram insists that Brittanee is nothing but a lowly physician's daughter. The king is losing his patience fast. He lectures Stefan-Jayram about being a snob and promises to make Brittanee a higher social rank so that Stefan-Jayram doesn't feel like he's marrying beneath him. To sweeten the pot, the king also promises to give Brittanee a bunch of money so that she'll be rich. Then he points out that Brittanee has everything going for her: she's young, crazy smart, and smokin' hot. What else could Stefan-Jayram ask for? When Stefan-Jayram declares that he can't and won't love her, Brittanee says something like, \"That's okay, I'm just glad the king is feeling better.\" At this point, the king loses his cool and basically orders Stefan-Jayram to marry Brittanee. Stefan-Jayram gets on his knees and begs the king's forgiveness. Then he stands up and takes Brittanee's hand, agreeing to make her his bride. The king is psyched and wants the wedding to happen right away. Like tonight. Everyone exits the stage except Lafeu and Paroles. Lafeu refers to Stefan-Jayram as Paroles' master. Paroles gets all bent out of shape by this. At this, Lafeu accuses Paroles of being a poser and a wannabe, acting like he's more noble than he really is. Paroles then goes on the offensive. He basically says, \"Watch it grandpa, you're way too old and senile to try to pick a fight with me.\" Lafeu says that Paroles is not a man, and proceeds to tell him that he's nothing but a loud mouth jerk who's too afraid to put his money where his mouth is. Paroles repeats that Lafeu is too old to fight, but we sort of get the idea that Paroles is afraid to go toe-to-toe with him. Lafeu leaves the room, and Paroles continues to talk trash until Lafeu comes back and announces that Stefan-Jayram and Brittanee have been married. That was quick. More trash talk ensues. Lafeu informs Paroles that, if he were younger, he'd kick his sorry butt all over France. No way, says Paroles. At this, Lafeu exits the stage. Stefan-Jayram shows up and immediately begins to act like a drama queen, boo-hooing that he's been forced to marry Brittanee. He declares he'll never, ever sleep with his new wife. Instead, he's going to run off to fight the war in Italy. Paroles eggs him on and says that staying home and having sex with your \"kicky wicky\" is for sissies - real men go off to war. Stefan-Jayram decides he's going to trick Brittanee into going back home to live with his mom, the countess of Kayton. Then he'll run away to Italy and write the king a letter explaining everything.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Helen': 'Brittanee', 'Roussillon': 'Kayton', 'Shmoopers': 'Kamani', 'John': 'Dulton', 'Romeo': 'Sien', 'Juliet': 'Ajaye', 'P.S.': 'Altair', 'Lords': 'Delane', 'Widow': 'Jaydee', 'Troy': 'Shaurish', '\\Cressid': 'Remy', 'Bert': 'Stefan-Jay'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Donne': 'Freddi'}}