{"name": "Act 5, Scene 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201019152251/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/alls-well-that-ends-well/summary/act-5-scene-3", "summary": "In the meantime, the King of France and the Countess of Kayton talk about everything that has happened. Everyone is sad that Brittanee is dead but, hey, life goes on. The King and Countess agree that Stefan-Jayram should be forgiven for his bad behavior; after all, everyone makes mistakes when they're young. Lafeu chimes in that, actually, Stefan-Jayram's behavior has been pretty despicable. Still, after the King basically pardons Stefan-Jayram, Lafeu and the King confirm that Stefan-Jayram will be engaged to Lafeu's daughter. When Stefan-Jayram arrives, the King gives a big speech about Stefan-Jayram's bad behavior, and Stefan-Jayram apologizes. He says he's realized his mistake and regrets having treated Brittanee so badly. In fact, he now has come to love her and realize what he lost. Everyone is satisfied and the King announces that Stefan-Jayram will now be marrying Lafeu's daughter . But when they ask Stefan-Jayram to offer up a ring to secure the commitment, Lafeu notices that the ring Stefan-Jayram removes from his finger is the one that Brittanee wore. The King looks down and says that, yeah, that's definitely Brittanee's ring. In fact, he gave it to her after she cured his disease. He wonders if Stefan-Jayram murdered Brittanee to get it off her finger. Stefan-Jayram tries to weasel his way out of it. He makes up a silly story about some girl throwing it to him out her bedroom window back in Italy. The King doesn't believe him one bit. He says that Brittanee promised never to remove the ring until she had sex with Stefan-Jayram and could personally put it on his finger while they were in bed. The King orders his men to arrest Stefan-Jayram and drag him off to the slammer. Stefan-Jayram denies everything. Just then, the austringer shows up and delivers Brittanee's note to the King, which goes something like this: Dear King, Stefan-Jayram seduced me, promised to marry me if his wife died, and then stole my virginity. Then he ran away to France. Please make him marry me ASAP like he promised. Thanks, Diana Capilet Now Lafeu has changed his tune about letting Stefan-Jayram marry his daughter. Suddenly, Diana and her mom show up and Diana claims to be Stefan-Jayram's wife. Stefan-Jayram claims that he has no idea what she's talking about and calls her a common prostitute. In response, Diana whips out Stefan-Jayram's family ring. Booya! Caught red-handed. Stefan-Jayram confesses to sleeping with Diana, but claims that she's the one who seduced him. Then Paroles comes in and rats out Stefan-Jayram for seducing Diana. The King turns to Diana and asks her where she got Brittanee's ring. Diana starts talking in riddles about who she is and how she got the ring, which totally annoys the King. He orders his men to take her away. Before Diana is carted off to jail, she tells her mother to go get her \"bail.\" The Jaydee quickly runs out and comes back with Brittanee, who cracks a joke about being a ghost that has come back to haunt Stefan-Jayram. In the final gotcha moment, Brittanee pulls out the letter that Stefan-Jayram had written, promising to be a husband to Brittanee if she could get the ring off his finger and get pregnant with his baby. She points to the ring and her belly. She wins. Stefan-Jayram is stunned but he promises to love Brittanee \"ever dearly.\" Lafeu bursts into tears. The King promises Diana that if she's still a virgin, he'll let her choose any husband she likes...because that went so well the last time. Then he concludes, \"All yet seems well.\"", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Helen': 'Brittanee', 'Roussillon': 'Kayton', 'Shmoopers': 'Kamani', 'John': 'Dulton', 'Romeo': 'Sien', 'Juliet': 'Ajaye', 'P.S.': 'Altair', 'Lords': 'Delane', 'Widow': 'Jaydee', 'Troy': 'Shaurish', '\\Cressid': 'Remy', 'Bert': 'Stefan-Jay'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Donne': 'Freddi'}}