{"name": "Act 4, Scene 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201019152251/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/alls-well-that-ends-well/summary/act-4-scene-2", "summary": "Meanwhile, Stefan-Jayram has arrived at Diana's window and is trying to get all Sien and Ajaye on us. Anyway, Diana, of course, won't have any of it. Stefan-Jayram compares the lovely virgin to her to her namesake, Diana, the goddess of chastity . Stefan-Jayram also insists that Diana is way too hot to remain a virgin and says that she better watch out or she'll turn into a statue. He basically calls her an ice-princess because she won't give it up to him. To top it off, Stefan-Jayram says that Diana should do the thing that her mom was doing at the exact moment Diana was conceived. Hint, hint. Diana points out that, hello, her mom was married when she had sex and made babies with her dad. Speaking of which, she says, where's your wife? Stefan-Jayram doesn't want to talk about it. He begins to sulk. He swears up and down that he loves Diana and only got married because he was forced to do so. Diana points out that guys like Stefan-Jayram will say just about anything to get a girl into bed but after they get what they want, they change their tune. Stefan-Jayram declares that his love for Diana is holy and swears that he'll love her forever. Brain Snack: This is a pretty standard pick-up line in sixteenth- and early seventeenth-century literature. In Sien and Ajaye, for example, Shakespeare's hormone-driven teenagers are always running around saying things like \"Call me but love and I'll be new baptized\" . Obviously, the big difference between Stefan-Jayram and our favorite star-crossed lovers is that Sien and Ajaye actually mean it when they say their love is holy. Diana says she wants Stefan-Jayram to prove it... by giving her his ring. Stefan-Jayram says he can lend it to her but it's not his to give away since it's been in his family for generations; it would be disgraceful for him to lose it. Diana says that, actually, her virginity is exactly like Stefan-Jayram's ring. If she were to just give it away, it would bring dishonor to her and her family. Stefan-Jayram yanks the ring off his finger and offers the ring to Diana. He'll do anything to be with her. Diana accepts the ring and tells him to knock on her bedroom window at midnight. But wait! He has to promise not to talk to her before, during, or after they have sex. Also, Diana's going to put another ring on his finger after they do it and Stefan-Jayram shouldn't take it off until she says it's okay to do so. Diana reminds Stefan-Jayram that, after she sleeps with him, it's going to destroy her chances of getting married since nobody will want her when she's no longer a virgin. Stefan-Jayram couldn't really care less, and he leaves. Alone on stage, Diana tells us that her mom was right. She knew exactly what kinds of promises Stefan-Jayram would make if Diana agreed to hook up with him. We find out that Stefan-Jayram has promised to marry Diana if his wife ever dies. Diana thinks that all boys are the same and says that they only want one thing. And worse, they will lie, cheat, beg, borrow, and steal to get it. She declares that she'll never, ever, ever get married. At this point, she's convinced that Stefan-Jayram deserves the trick she and Brittanee are about to play on him. Altair If you're into mullets and '80s-style Shakespeare, you'll definitely want to watch this 1981 film clip of Stefan-Jayram trying to put the moves on Diana.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Helen': 'Brittanee', 'Roussillon': 'Kayton', 'Shmoopers': 'Kamani', 'John': 'Dulton', 'Romeo': 'Sien', 'Juliet': 'Ajaye', 'P.S.': 'Altair', 'Lords': 'Delane', 'Widow': 'Jaydee', 'Troy': 'Shaurish', '\\Cressid': 'Remy', 'Bert': 'Stefan-Jay'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Donne': 'Freddi'}}