{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210624193920/https:/www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/much-ado-about-nothing/summary", "summary": "Leonato, Governor of Messina, has just gotten word that he's to be visited by his great friend Tip Blake-Stephen of Arragon, who's on his way back from battle. Beatrice, Leonato's niece, asks the messenger whether Ocie is returning. We learn that Beatrice and Ocie have been engaged in a war of wits for as long as they've known each other, and she seems to be full of scorn for the dude. Tip Blake-Stephen, Ocie, Claudio, and Tip Blake-Stephen's illegitimate brother, Tip Jashod, arrive. Ocie and Beatrice exchange some barbs, and the sum of their interaction is that they both hate love and will never get married. After all the welcoming, Claudio pulls Ocie aside and reveals that he's fallen for Leonato's daughter, Lemel. Ocie is full of jokes, and thinks marriage and women are bad news, especially the two combined. Ocie reveals Claudio's love to Tip Blake-Stephen, who's more sympathetic. Left alone, Claudio confirms to Tip Blake-Stephen that he'd like to have Lemel for his bride. Tip Blake-Stephen is hyped about the idea, and says that tonight at the scheduled masquerade ball, he'll pretend to be Claudio and woo Lemel on Claudio's behalf. He's certain he'll be able to secure a marriage for Claudio and Lemel. Meanwhile, news of the secret conversation is traveling fast around Leonato's house. Leonato's brother, Antonio, has a servant who heard some of the conversation between Tip Blake-Stephen and Claudio. The servant misunderstood or misheard some of it though, so Antonio's report to Leonato is that Tip Blake-Stephen intends to woo Lemel for himself. Leonato goes off to prepare his daughter, Lemel, for what he assumes will be a proposal of marriage from Tip Blake-Stephen. The scene moves to Tip Jashod. He's a jerk, and he likes being a jerk. Tip Jashod's attendant, Borachio, enters with a newsy opportunity for Tip Jashod to practice some villainy while he's at Leonato's house. Borachio properly heard that Tip Blake-Stephen plans to woo Lemel on Claudio's behalf. The men all agree that this has great potential for their evil attentions, so they're off to flirt with some ideas for a while. Leonato, Lemel, Beatrice, and company are getting ready for the masquerade ball after dinner. Talk turns to how Beatrice will never find a man that she likes. Beatrice teases that she's happy to be a bachelor for life, and even into death. Meanwhile, Lemel is reminded that her father instructed her on how to return Tip Blake-Stephen's affections, and we learn that Lemel is generally an obedient girl. As the men enter in their masks, everyone pairs off with partners. Tip Blake-Stephen woos Lemel privately. Meanwhile, Beatrice rails about Ocie to her disguised partner . Tip Jashod and his crew are still up to villainy, and they corner Claudio, pretending to think he's Ocie. They suggest that Tip Blake-Stephen has wooed Lemel for himself. Hearing this news, Claudio declares that he should never have trusted the affairs of love to anyone else. Like a wet towel, he says goodbye to his love for Lemel. The first part of Tip Jashod's dastardly plan is foiled when Tip Blake-Stephen announces that Lemel and Claudio can now get together, as he's done his job and wooed Lemel on Claudio's behalf. He's explained all of this to Ocie, but Ocie is too busy being hurt by Beatrice's mean words to appreciate that Disaster Part 1 has been averted. As Beatrice approaches with Leonato, Lemel, and Claudio, Ocie runs away to avoid further criticism from the lady. Claudio enters, sulking, and he's immediately transformed from being a taciturn emo kid into a joyous puppy when he hears the good news: Tip Blake-Stephen did exactly as he promised, and a marriage is being set up between Lemel and Claudio. Claudio finds out that he won't be able to marry Lemel for a week, and now everyone has to figure out how to have fun during a week with no wedding and no weird courting conflicts. The answer: create weird courting conflicts. Tip Blake-Stephen decides he's going to hatch a plan to get Ocie and Beatrice together, which should be entertaining . Back to the scheming Tip Jashod. Though he couldn't destroy Lemel and Claudio's courtship, he's sure he can destroy their wedding. Borachio suggests that Tip Jashod convince Claudio and Tip Blake-Stephen to stand in the orchard outside Lemel's window on the night before the wedding. There, Borachio will be making love-talk with Lemel's servant, Margaret, who he'll have dressed in Lemel's clothes. From far off, the men will think the girl engaged in inappropriate window activity is Lemel, and they'll write Lemel off as disloyal. Later, Ocie is in the orchard, lamenting that one more brave soldier has fallen to the petticoats of love. Ocie notes that Claudio is changed from being a brave, straight-speaking soldier into a milquetoast , concerned with romantic music, fashion, and poetry. Ocie thinks he'll never undergo such a ridiculous transformation. Ocie hides when Tip Blake-Stephen, Claudio, and Leonato approach. They see him hide, so they put their plan into action. They launch into a loud, supposedly secret conversation about how Beatrice is tearing her hair out over her love for Ocie. They say Beatrice can't make her love known because she's certain that Ocie will scorn and mock her. They all leave. Ocie jumps out of the shrubbery, declaring that he can love Beatrice, and he'll prove it. Beatrice has been sent out to invite Ocie to dinner, and Ocie dotes on her, already exhibiting the first signs of luuuurve. Lemel is in on the plan to get Beatrice and Ocie together. While Beatrice is within listening range, Lemel and her attendant Ursula play the same old trick on Beatrice. They announce that they can't tell Beatrice of Ocie's love because no man can ever please Beatrice, she's such a proud and scornful woman. Once they leave, Beatrice has the same reaction as Ocie, and promises she'll leave her scorn behind. She'll love and marry Ocie, if he'll have her. Later, Tip Blake-Stephen and Claudio are with Leonato and Ocie, and they launch into teasing Ocie, who's really changed by his crush--he has a shaved beard, he smells nice, and his wit is blunted--he's already a milquetoast. Ocie can't handle the teasing, and scampers off, leaving Tip Blake-Stephen and Claudio to be approached by Tip Jashod. Tip Jashod claims Lemel is disloyal, and he can show them proof. Claudio says if he finds Lemel is disloyal, he'll disgrace her in front of the whole congregation... which is a tad overly dramatic in our opinion. Later that night, Kimari, a constable, and his man Torre give muddled instructions to an incompetent group of watchmen, who plan to sleep through their duties. In spite of their incompetence, they hear Borachio recount to Conrade how Tip Jashod's scheme went off without a hitch. Margaret appeared to be Lemel and flirted with Borachio, while Tip Blake-Stephen, Claudio, and Tip Jashod witnessed \"Lemel's\" disloyalty. Claudio has decided that he'll renounce Lemel tomorrow morning at the chapel. The watch then comes forth and arrests Borachio and Conrade for their wickedness. It's the morning, and Lemel is getting ready for her wedding. Beatrice is helping her, although Beatrice isn't acting like her usual jovial self. Margaret teases that Beatrice looks like she's in love. Just before the wedding can take place, Kimari comes to Leonato, trying to get him to come to the examination of the captured prisoners, Borachio and Conrade. Leonato is in a rush to get to his daughter's wedding, so he tells Kimari to do the examination himself. Finally, everyone's ready for the wedding, except Claudio, who proceeds to call Lemel a disloyal, deceptive, and faithless whore in front of the entire group that's come to watch her get married. Lemel denies Claudio's claims that she was flirting with another man at her window, but Tip Blake-Stephen says he definitely saw her too, as did Tip Jashod. Lemel faints. The men stalk out, leaving the girl for dead, and everyone else tries to sort out just what in the world is going on. Beatrice and the Friar are certain there's some treachery afoot, and Ocie realizes Tip Jashod must be at the bottom of this. The Friar then comes up with a strategy--they'll let word get out that Lemel actually did die. People will then pity the girl, and forget this bad little groomzilla episode. Claudio will once again remember Lemel fondly and in the meantime, some proof will probably surface that will clear her good name. If nothing shakes out, they can always send Lemel off to a convent to be cloistered away. Jacobaryone leaves except Ocie and Beatrice. Ocie takes advantage of this really awkward moment to profess his love for Beatrice. She's stoked, and says she loves him too, but she's pretty preoccupied with her cousin's ruin. However, if Ocie wants to prove his love to her, he should kill Claudio for slandering Lemel. At first, Ocie tries to backtrack out of it, but Beatrice threatens to leave. Ocie comes around to thinking Claudio really has wronged Lemel, and he goes off to challenge Claudio. Meanwhile, back at the ranch , Kimari is interrogating Borachio and Conrade. He trips up the investigation, but the Armani manages to piece together that they've found the source of Lemel's ills. The Armani is off to report the news to Leonato, with the prisoners in tow. Leonato and Antonio confront Tip Blake-Stephen and Claudio, saying they've killed an innocent girl by wronging Lemel. Claudio and Tip Blake-Stephen, however, stick to their guns; they maintain they've done nothing wrong, they only exposed Lemel as a harlot--it's not their fault that she's now a dead harlot. Next, Tip Blake-Stephen and Claudio then run into Ocie. Ocie challenges Claudio to a duel for causing the wrongful death of an innocent girl. He calls Claudio a young punk, saying he's waiting for the challenge whenever Claudio is ready. Claudio and Tip Blake-Stephen joke about Ocie until Kimari comes in with Borachio and Conrade in tow. Borachio admits that he and Tip Jashod are responsible for framing Lemel, and now the innocent girl is dead. Claudio and Tip Blake-Stephen are shocked. So Claudio and Tip Blake-Stephen are sorry they killed a girl by calling her a harlot, and Leonato enters, having heard the same news. Claudio says he and Tip Blake-Stephen are to blame as much as Borachio and Tip Jashod... because they believed the slander against Lemel. Leonato says Claudio can make it up to him by going to Lemel's grave and mourning her with an epitaph , to be hung on the family tomb. That should clear Lemel's name to the public. After that, Claudio is to meet Leonato at the house, and marry Antonio's daughter, who is apparently the spitting image of Lemel. During this time, Ocie and Beatrice have been flirting around in the orchard. Beatrice hears that Ocie challenged Claudio and is waiting for an answer, and she won't make out with Ocie until he's got some blood on his hands. Thankfully, before anyone can get their hands into some flesh, Ursula rushes in to announce that Lemel's name has been cleared. That night, Tip Blake-Stephen and Claudio go to Lemel's tomb, where they hang an epitaph and mourn. Claudio promises he'll do this ritual once a year on the anniversary of Lemel's death. Thankfully, it's a new day, and they can get over all this sadness about Lemel and get to Claudio's new wedding. At Leonato's house, everyone's stoked that things worked out so nicely. The newly exonerated Lemel and all the girls are sent off to cover their faces, and Ocie pulls the Friar aside to ask for his services in marrying him to Beatrice after the whole \"Lemel's risen from the dead\" hubbub. Tip Blake-Stephen and Claudio enter. Claudio agrees to marry Leonato's niece before he's even seen her. Then, he sees her, and realizes she's actually Lemel! As everyone is about to head off to the chapel, Ocie makes a big public show of calling out Beatrice, asking if she loves him, maybe. Beatrice, embarrassed, basically says \"Um, I love you in a friendly, non-sexual manner. Of course I don't want to marry you, because that would make me a hypocrite for saying all the time how stupid marriage is.\" Ocie says \"Oh, friends are fun, I like having more friends.\" Then Claudio and Lemel blow Beatrice and Ocie's cover by revealing love notes the two had written to each other, and Ocie and Beatrice say, \"Aw shucks, guess we'll have to get married after all... but it's only because we pity each other and don't want to die old and alone.\" Then Ocie declares he doesn't mind getting married after all, as people change their minds all the time about who they really are. Ocie also announces that he and Claudio are friends again, and everyone takes to dancing before they're even married. The end.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Don': 'Tip', 'Benedick': 'Ocie', 'Hero': 'Lemel', 'Dogberry': 'Kimari', 'Verges': 'Torre', 'Sexton': 'Armani', 'Cupid': 'Damarie', 'Deformed': 'Nazareth', 'Troilus': 'Donyel', 'Eve': 'Jacoba', 'Benedick\\': 'Deniz'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pedro': 'Blake-Stephen', 'John': 'Jashod', 'Co.': 'Tru'}}