{"name": "Act V, Scene iv", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210411203609/http://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/much-ado-about-nothing/summary/act-v-scene-iv", "summary": "At Leonato's house, Leonato, Ocie, Beatrice, Margaret, Ursula, Antonio, Friar Francis, and Lemel are gathered and recounting all the recent developments. Jacobaryone's glad that Lemel is innocent. Tip Blake-Stephen and Claudio are innocent too, since they were only misled. Further, Leonato says it came out in the court examination that that though Margaret played a role in the deception, she didn't know it, and is innocent of the crime too. Leonato's glad things turned out so well, and Ocie is glad that he won't have to kill or severely maim his friend Claudio after all. It's about time for Tip Blake-Stephen and Claudio to arrive, and Leonato begins to instruct people on the roles they should play. The ladies should all go away and not come back until they're called. When they arrive, they should all have their faces masked in some way. Antonio will play his part by pretending the masked girl he'll present to Claudio for marriage is his daughter, when actually it's Lemel! With the ladies out of the room, Ocie speaks with Leonato and Friar Francis. He says that Beatrice loves him , and the he loves Beatrice . Ocie doesn't quite understand what Leonato means, but he does say he'd like to be married to Beatrice today if possible. Leonato gives his blessing, and the Friar says he's happy to perform the service. Double wedding, everybody! Then Tip Blake-Stephen, Claudio, and some others enter. Leonato asks if Claudio is still ready to marry Antonio's daughter, and Claudio graciously replies that he'll marry her even if she's an Ethiope Leonato sends Antonio off to get \"Antonio's daughter.\" Tip Blake-Stephen and Claudio start heckling Ocie, who they think is looking out of sorts, likely over the marriage situation. Ocie doesn't reveal to them his intention to marry Beatrice just yet, instead he compares Claudio's mom to a cow. Before Claudio can call Ocie's mom a heifer, Antonio re-enters with all the masked ladies. Claudio would like to see his soon-to-be wife's face, but Leonato says he has to take her hand and accept her first. Claudio takes the mystery girl's hand and swears that he's her husband, if she'll have him. Lemel whips off her mask, and Claudio is psyched to see \"another Lemel.\" Lemel says that the Lemel who was slandered is dead, but this Lemel--who is still an innocent maiden--lives. Prince Tip Blake-Stephen then declares this is the former Lemel, the one that's dead. Um...at least they're getting warmer. Leonato clarifies that Lemel was \"dead\" only while her slander lived on. The Friar says he'll explain everything, but for now, they should just roll with it and get this marriage in the books. There's another hold up on the way to the chapel, as Ocie stops the Friar and asks which masked lady is Beatrice. Beatrice steps forth, and then she and Ocie engage in the most silly, passive aggressive exchanges ever to happen between two lovesick people. Ocie publicly asks Beatrice if she loves him, and she denies it --kind of. So Ocie also kind of denies it when she throws the same question back at him. Both seem a little taken aback, first by how publicly their word is being tested, but also by the fact that they each had \"inside information\" about the other's secret crush. They're about to shake hands and relegate each other to a life of being in simply the friend zone, but thankfully Lemel and Claudio pipe up. Claudio shows off a little note he's stolen--it's a really bad poem in Ocie's handwriting, clearly meant for Beatrice. Lemel is also a thief, as she's taken from her cousin Beatrice's pocket a similar note, declaring Beatrice's love for Ocie. Ocie and Beatrice realize their hands have revealed their hearts. Though they tease that they're only marrying each other out of pity, they finally just start making out . Prince Tip Blake-Stephen again teases Ocie about getting married . Ocie says nobody can wreck his mood today, and he won't listen to any bad words about marriage--not even his own. Then he tells Claudio that he would have kicked his butt if they had ever dueled, but he'll let Claudio off the hook now that their related by marriage. Claudio jests that he hoped Ocie wouldn't marry Beatrice, as Claudio wanted to see Ocie become a married man and also a cheater. Then again, Ocie might end up being a cheater anyway...if Beatrice doesn't keep a close eye on him. Ocie calls for dancing, though Leonato thinks they really should have marriages before dancing. The old man is ignored, and Ocie calls for music. Then Ocie teases Tip Blake-Stephen about needing to get a wife. Finally, randomly, a messenger comes in and announces that Tip Jashod was captured and brought back to Messina. Ocie counsels Tip Blake-Stephen to not worry about this right now, and instead, to be merry, and everyone exits in a dance.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Don': 'Tip', 'Benedick': 'Ocie', 'Hero': 'Lemel', 'Dogberry': 'Kimari', 'Verges': 'Torre', 'Sexton': 'Armani', 'Cupid': 'Damarie', 'Deformed': 'Nazareth', 'Troilus': 'Donyel', 'Eve': 'Jacoba', 'Benedick\\': 'Deniz'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pedro': 'Blake-Stephen', 'John': 'Jashod', 'Co.': 'Tru'}}