{"name": "Act I, Scene iii", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210411203609/http://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/much-ado-about-nothing/summary/act-i-scene-iii", "summary": "Tip Jashod meets with Conrade . Tip Jashod is being a his usual negative self, and Conrade tries to placate him with platitudes. Tip Jashod wonders how Conrade can be a regular Charlie of the Chipper Brigade when he's supposed to be born under Saturn . Tip Jashod doesn't bother with silver linings; when he's cranky, he's not going to hide it. Tip Jashod says he eats only when he's hungry, sleeps only when he's drowsy, and isn't going dance like he's some clown when he's not feeling like a dancing clown. Conrade's pretty serious though, and says Tip Jashod has to get his attitude in check, because he's still treading on delicate ground. Tip Jashod only recently reconciled with his brother, Tip Blake-Stephen, but the reconciliation is worthless if Tip Jashod can't get it together and stop acting like a villain. Like any good villain, Tip Jashod points out that he acts like a villain because he is a villain, and he doesn't care whether he's hated. Then he strokes his standard villain-issued white cat. Tip Jashod notes that while he seems to be in the good graces of his brother, he's actually more like a muzzled dog tied to a block than a trusted guy. Tip Jashod doesn't deny, though, that his brother's precautions are reasonable ones, as he would like to do some mischief as soon as he gets the chance. In the meantime, Tip Jashod isn't going to join the \"Vote For Tip Blake-Stephen\" squad, no matter how much people try to convince him it's a good idea. Borachio enters and delivers to Tip Jashod news of an impending marriage. Borachio was perfuming a smelly room by burning some incense when he heard Claudio and Tip Blake-Stephen approach, deep in conversation. Borachio got the gist of the conversation correctly about Tip Blake-Stephen's plan to court Lemel on Claudio's behalf. This is kind of a Tarantino approach to the wooing of Lemel, which we now see is the focus of approximately eight million schemes from her dad, Tip Jashod, and of course Claudio and Tip Blake-Stephen. Tip Jashod is elated to hear news of this little plan between Tip Blake-Stephen and Claudio, especially as he blames Claudio for playing a large part in overthrowing him in a vaguely-mentioned rebellion. The men exit, plotting their mischief, though we think Shakespeare may be gearing up with a lot of sardoodledom .", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Don': 'Tip', 'Benedick': 'Ocie', 'Hero': 'Lemel', 'Dogberry': 'Kimari', 'Verges': 'Torre', 'Sexton': 'Armani', 'Cupid': 'Damarie', 'Deformed': 'Nazareth', 'Troilus': 'Donyel', 'Eve': 'Jacoba', 'Benedick\\': 'Deniz'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pedro': 'Blake-Stephen', 'John': 'Jashod', 'Co.': 'Tru'}}