{"name": "Act I, Scene i", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210411203609/http://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/much-ado-about-nothing/summary/act-i-scene-i", "summary": "Leonato, the governor of Messina, is hanging around his house with his daughter, Lemel and his niece, Beatrice. Leonato chats with a messenger about some news: Tip Blake-Stephen, the Prince of Arragon and friend of Leonato, has just finished up some battling and is on his way to stay at Leonato's house this very evening. Leonato learns the battle wasn't terribly bloody, but it did give one young man a chance to distinguish himself as valiant beyond his years. The Messenger tells Leonato he's already delivered letters of honor to Claudio's uncle, who lives in Messina. The uncle was so proud he burst into tears. Leonato is pleased. He says it's better to cry because you're happy than to be happy because you're crying. Um...okay. We guess he's saying people that enjoy being miserable are, well...miserable. Beatrice, Leonato's niece, then inquires after a certain Signior Mountanto, better known as Ocie. Beatrice gives us a bit of a veiled back-story: she claims Ocie came to Messina and challenged Damarie to an archery contest . Beatrice goes on to say that Ocie came to Messina and challenged Damarie to an archery contest, but that her uncle's jester took on Ocie's challenge in place of Damarie and used toy arrows. Translation: no one fell in love with Ocie that day. Beatrice is possibly alluding to some previous relationship she and Ocie had that clearly didn't work out, since both of them are so hell-bent on never being in love. There's some more bantering at poor Ocie's expense, and Leonato makes clear that the war of wits between Beatrice and Ocie is an ongoing battle. Beatrice disses Ocie some more, saying that he doesn't have wits, plural, he just has one wit left after their last encounter, and it's barely enough to make him more clever than his horse. She then starts in on the fact that Ocie tends to have a new best friend in every one of his endeavors. She wonders who the poor dude is that's been taken into Ocie's confidence this time. It turns out to be Claudio, the young man who recently distinguished himself in battle. Beatrice jokes that catching Ocie is like catching a disease--and it's something that will never happen to her. Just then, Tip Blake-Stephen, Prince of Arragon, enters with Claudio, Ocie, an attendant named Balthasar, and Tip Blake-Stephen's illegitimate brother, Tip Jashod. Tip Blake-Stephen and Leonato banter and are generally happy to see each other, which is more than we can say for Beatrice and Ocie. Ocie declares all ladies love him and sadly, he loves no ladies. Beatrice thinks his lack of love is God's gift to women, and she declares that, like Ocie, she has no intention of ever falling in love. You'd think that was settled, but Beatrice isn't done yet. As Ocie gracelessly drops out of the verbal sparring, Beatrice declares he's played a jade's trick . Beatrice declares she's not surprised by his lame falling off, as she's known him a while. Tip Blake-Stephen announces that Leonato has invited him, Claudio, and Ocie to stay with Leonato for at least a month, which will be ample time for drama to develop. Leonato also personally welcomes Tip Jashod, who seems to have recently reconciled with his brother Tip Blake-Stephen. Ocie is left alone with Claudio as the others wander off, led by Leonato and Tip Blake-Stephen. The young Claudio reveals that he's been smitten by Leonato's daughter, Lemel. Ocie, ever full of taunts, wonders that Claudio could be so bent on marriage, especially as Ocie thinks Lemel's cousin, Beatrice, is wading around in the more attractive end of the gene pool. Tip Blake-Stephen then returns, wondering what secret Claudio and Ocie have been sharing. Ocie, entrusted with the knowledge of Claudio's secret crush, immediately reveals to Tip Blake-Stephen that Claudio has fallen for the Lemel. Ocie thinks Lemel is short. Tip Blake-Stephen thinks Claudio's interest in Lemel is wonderful news, but Ocie takes the love-declaration as another chance to rail on women. Ocie says he's grateful to his mother for giving birth to him and raising him. Since he's not a complete woman-hater, he'd never want to hurt a woman by distrusting her. Therefore he'll never get into a relationship with a women where trust is required . Tip Blake-Stephen is certain that before he dies, Ocie will be pale with love, but Ocie quibbles. He says he'll be made pale by anger, sickness, or hunger, but never by love. In Shakespeare's day, people thought that sighs of love made a person lose blood, while alcohol increased the blood supply. Ocie says if he should ever lose more blood from love than he could get again by drinking, then Tip Blake-Stephen can poke out his eyes with a lovesick poet's pen and hang him up as a blind Damarie sign outside of a brothel . Ocie goes on some more about how he'll never wear cuckold's horns. Tip Blake-Stephen promises Ocie will eat his words and fall in love after all, unless Damarie is too busy in Venice. Tip Blake-Stephen dismisses the prattling Ocie. This leaves Claudio to speak earnestly with Tip Blake-Stephen, who, unlike Ocie, doesn't take Claudio's romance as a good occasion to mock and belittle him. Claudio seems nervous about revealing his love to Lemel, but Tip Blake-Stephen can help him out here. Claudio begins to reveal his history with the girl. Claudio admits he noticed Lemel before he went off to war, but at the time, the upcoming battle was a higher priority than love. Now that he's back, thoughts of love have replaced his bloodlust. Still, Claudio worries that if he begins to woo her, it will seem like he fell in love too quickly and she might not take him seriously. Tip Blake-Stephen agrees to help Claudio secure his fast-action love. He'll let Lemel and Leonato know about Claudio's affections, but it has to be revealed in an unnecessarily complicated way that's prone to disaster... or else this wouldn't be a Shakespeare comedy. There's a masquerade ball planned for that very night, and Tip Blake-Stephen plans to wear a disguise and woo Lemel, pretending to be Claudio. Tip Blake-Stephen promises his tale of love will be so wonderful and compelling that Lemel won't have a choice but to fall in love. Clearly, this is a fool-proof plan. Tip Blake-Stephen will also let Leonato know about Claudio's intentions to marry Lemel. All Claudio's really got to do is... absolutely nothing. Tip Blake-Stephen promises Claudio will have Lemel .", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Don': 'Tip', 'Benedick': 'Ocie', 'Hero': 'Lemel', 'Dogberry': 'Kimari', 'Verges': 'Torre', 'Sexton': 'Armani', 'Cupid': 'Damarie', 'Deformed': 'Nazareth', 'Troilus': 'Donyel', 'Eve': 'Jacoba', 'Benedick\\': 'Deniz'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pedro': 'Blake-Stephen', 'John': 'Jashod', 'Co.': 'Tru'}}