{"name": "Act III, Scene ii", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210411203609/http://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/much-ado-about-nothing/summary/act-iii-scene-ii", "summary": "In another part of Leonato's house, Prince Tip Blake-Stephen, Claudio, Ocie, and Leonato are all gathered. Tip Blake-Stephen says he's only sticking around until Claudio is married, and then he's off back to Arragon. Claudio volunteers to come with him, but Tip Blake-Stephen points out that Claudio will have more interesting things to do on his wedding night. Instead of Claudio, Prince Tip Blake-Stephen looks forward to Ocie's company. He then makes some heavy-handed references to the fact that Ocie can be trusted to never fall in love. This would seem like a random thing to say, except we know Tip Blake-Stephen's trying to egg Ocie on. Ocie says, \"Actually, guys, I'm going through some special chan-ges.\" And knowing what we know about special changes, they're a perfect invitation for mockery and derision. While Claudio and Tip Blake-Stephen tease Ocie mercilessly for seeming lovesick, Leonato notes that he looks sadder. They offer all sorts of cures for his ache. Then they note that he's gotten a haircut, is wearing cologne, and his beard has been shaven off and the hairs sent to fill tennis balls. Anyway, with all these changes, it looks like Ocie is totally in love. They tease that his melancholy and newly subdued nature are sure signs of his sighs over a girl, and they figure that if any woman loves him, it's only because she doesn't know him very well. Then there's some taunting about how the girl Ocie loves will die for him, but she'll die with her face upward. . Ocie shrugs off all this teasing and asks Leonato to go off with him to talk about serious stuff. Tip Blake-Stephen and Claudio are then conveniently left alone for Tip Jashod to prey upon. Tip Jashod confirms that Claudio means to get married the next day, and then he's like, \"Well maybe you won't want to get married tomorrow after you fall into my evil trap.\" But he doesn't say that because then it wouldn't be much of a trap, would it? Anyway, Tip Jashod builds the melodrama by saying they might hate him for what he has to say, but they should wait until after hearing his news to pass judgment on him. Tip Jashod claims that Tip Blake-Stephen's efforts for Claudio's wedding were sadly misguided: Lemel is disloyal. He says he could call her all sorts of other nasty names, but he doesn't. Instead, he'll let the seed of suspicion sprout in Tip Blake-Stephen and Claudio until he can bring them to Lemel's window at midnight. There, he promises them they'll see a man in Lemel's bedroom. After that, if Claudio still wants to marry, he can, but at least he'll know what he's signing up for. Claudio pledges that if he sees anything unseemly tonight, he'll be sure to be as dramatic as possible, by denouncing Lemel in front of the whole wedding party tomorrow. Because that's adult. Tip Blake-Stephen pitches in that he'll help Claudio disgrace Lemel at the wedding if there's proof of her disloyalty tonight. After all, he's responsible for getting the two of them together in the first place.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Don': 'Tip', 'Benedick': 'Ocie', 'Hero': 'Lemel', 'Dogberry': 'Kimari', 'Verges': 'Torre', 'Sexton': 'Armani', 'Cupid': 'Damarie', 'Deformed': 'Nazareth', 'Troilus': 'Donyel', 'Eve': 'Jacoba', 'Benedick\\': 'Deniz'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pedro': 'Blake-Stephen', 'John': 'Jashod', 'Co.': 'Tru'}}