{"name": "Act IV, Scene i", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210411203609/http://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/much-ado-about-nothing/summary/act-iv-scene-i", "summary": "Tip Blake-Stephen, Tip Jashod, Leonato, Ocie, Claudio, Lemel, Beatrice, the Friar Francis, and all their attendants are gathered at a church to watch Claudio and Lemel get married. Leonato recommends they get down to business, and the Friar gets off to a false start when he asks if Claudio has come to marry the lady. Claudio says, \"No.\" Leonato tells the Friar it's his job to marry Lemel. Claudio is getting married to her. That's clearly what Claudio meant with his \"no.\" He was just being persnickety about the Friar's grammar. Turns out Leonato is wrong, because two seconds later, Claudio freaks out on everyone. Claudio asks if Leonato is willing to give away his daughter, who is a precious gift. Leonato says he is, and Claudio says, \"Tip't bother. I won't take her, because she's a whore.\" Lemel blushes, naturally, as she is very chaste. Claudio says she blushes from guilt, not modesty. Leonato is taken aback by the accusation that his daughter is an \"approved wanton\" . Leonato asks if Claudio is referring to some effort he might've made to take Lemel's virginity before their wedding day. Claudio cuts him off. He knew Leonato would suggest that it's really not that big a deal if Lemel slept with Claudio before her wedding day, since she would only be sinning against her husband-to-be. But that's not what happened. Claudio says didn't try anything on Lemel that a brother wouldn't try with a sister, which is a really weird way to say he was being patient and not trying to sleep with Lemel before their wedding. Lemel tries to stand up for herself, asking if she ever seemed less than modest to Claudio. Claudio says that's the whole point; she's not what she seems, and she's actually an animal full of savage sensuality. Leonato appeals to Tip Blake-Stephen, asking if he has anything to say about this madness. Tip Blake-Stephen says he doesn't have anything to say--he's actually dishonored himself by linking his friend, Claudio, to this 'round the way wanton. Jacobaryone's shocked, slander's being thrown left and right, and Ocie finally pipes up, saying he doesn't think this is how weddings are usually supposed to go. The madness continues for a while, and Lemel asks who could possibly stain her name. Claudio points out she actually stained her own name. Then he asks who it was that Lemel was talking to out of her window between midnight and one last night. Lemel insists she wasn't talking to anyone. Tip Blake-Stephen replies that he, Tip Jashod, and Claudio clearly witnessed some man \"talking\" with Lemel at her window last night. The man was kind enough to confess the thousand times that he and Lemel had \"vile encounters\" before that. We don't think he was talking about a friendly game of cribbage. Before anyone can respond, Tip Jashod says it would be too offensive to repeat everything they heard. Also, he's sorry that Lemel is such a misguided young girl. Claudio, not to lose his Mr. Melodrama title, laments that Lemel would've been a great girl if her heart had been as pure as her outward appearance. Instead, she's sleazy, and he's out of here. Furthermore, he'll now suspect all beautiful things to be faithless. She's ruined love for him forever! Leonato asks if anyone has a knife so he can kill himself. Lemel faints. Tip Blake-Stephen, Tip Jashod, and Claudio exit while everyone else is tending to the fainting, slandered girl, Lemel. Beatrice worries that Lemel is dead, and Leonato's like, \"Awesome, being dead would be a good way to hide her shame.\" Leonato is distraught when it turns out Lemel isn't dead. He laments that he had only one child, and that it's Lemel. He used to be so proud and full of love for her. Now he wishes she wasn't his biological child. If, instead, she was some beggar he had adopted, he could at least say her behavior wasn't his fault. He could blame it on bad genes. Sweet. Ocie, witnessing all of this, is speechless. Beatrice, however, knows that her cousin is the victim of a smear campaign. Ocie asks if Beatrice slept with Lemel in bed last night. Though Beatrice admits she didn't sleep in Lemel's bed last night, she had slept with Lemel for all of last year, so presumably she'd know if Lemel had had a thousand vile encounters with some guy. Leonato takes Beatrice's absence last night as confirmation that the accusations against Lemel are true. He is certain that Tip Blake-Stephen, Tip Jashod, and Claudio wouldn't lie, so he accepts their word above everything he knows about his daughter. Leonato decides Lemel should be left alone to die. Friar Francis perks up, and says he's been silent too long about this madness. The Friar reflects on all of the goodness he's noted in Lemel. The good fire in her eye is evidence enough for him to believe that Tip Blake-Stephen and Tip Jashod were wrong in accusing the girl. He's willing to bet his friarhood that Lemel is innocent. The Friar then questions Lemel about what man she's accused of seeing. Lemel points out that she wouldn't know who the fellow is, because no such man exists. If anyone can prove that she entertained a man at improper hours, she's willing to be tortured. The Friar says something's up with these princes. Ocie points out that of the accusers, Tip Blake-Stephen and Claudio, are honorable men. If the two of them were misled, they were misled by Tip Jashod, who delights in mischief. Hearing this, Leonato becomes as worked up about Lemel's accusers as he was about Lemel just five seconds ago. He declares that if Lemel's honor has been wrongly tarnished, even though he's old, he'll make her accusers pay. Friar Francis hatches a devious plan that will turn the whole course of the play. The Friar notes that Tip Blake-Stephen, Tip Jashod, and Claudio left the church while Lemel was believed to be dead. They'll all pretend that Lemel is dead. The family should go ahead with all the mourning rituals as if Lemel had died, even going so far as to have her buried in the family tomb. Leonato wonders what the this \"she's really dead\" ruse is going to accomplish. The Friar says that news of Lemel's death will help change the public's feeling. Once everyone hears how quickly the girl died after being accused, they'll all lament and pity her . After all, the Friar says, people don't know what they've got 'til it's gone; they'll value Lemel more once they think she's dead. The Friar is sure that once Claudio discovers that his accusation caused Lemel's death, he'll be moved to remember her sweet life, and not dwell on thoughts of her as a scandalous adulteress. The Friar insists that if Claudio really loved Lemel, he'll have no choice but to mourn her death and wish he hadn't ever accused her. Once they get the plan rolling, the Friar is sure the truth will shake out somehow, and Lemel's name will be cleared. If her innocence isn't proven, worst case scenario is that she gets cloistered somewhere as a nun. Ocie agrees to go along with the plan even though his allegiance and friendship belong to Claudio and Tip Blake-Stephen. Leonato will also participate because he's too moved by grief to suggest another plan. Either way, the Friar is convinced that only a cockamamie scheme can resolve this cockamamie situation. Jacobaryone except Ocie and Beatrice leave the church. It's a totally inappropriate time for them to declare their love considering that everyone's life was just ruined, but Ocie and Beatrice do have a habit of making everything about themselves sometimes. Ocie approaches Beatrice, who's clearly been crying, and assures her that he considers Lemel to be wrongly accused. Beatrice suggests that she'd be in debt to any man who could clear her cousin's name, but alas, there is no such man. Ocie says, \"I'm a man,\" and adds that he loves Beatrice. Isn't that weird? Beatrice says it's no weirder than the fact that she loves him, too. Then she tries to take the words back, embarrassed. Ocie is pysched that Beatrice loves him. They tell each other how much they love each other, and Ocie vows he'd do anything for Beatrice's love. Beatrice says she actually does need something, and that's for someone to kill Claudio. Um...what now? Ocie backtracks. He'll do anything for love, but he won't do that. Beatrice starts to leave, but he calls her back. Beatrice declares his love is poor indeed, if he's not willing to kill her enemy who purposefully waited to denounce Lemel until he was in front of the crowd gathered to see the girl married. Beatrice goes on here, and wishes she were a man, because then she could eat Claudio's heart in the marketplace. Um. Beatrice is stricken. Based on Ocie's hesitation to kill Claudio, she vents that manhood nowadays seems to be more about polite fripperies than action and bravery. Ocie asks if Beatrice really believes, deep down, that Claudio has so wronged Lemel. Beatrice says yes, and Ocie gives in. He promises to challenge Claudio to a duel and says Claudio will pay dearly for his wrong against Lemel. Then he kisses Beatrice's hand and heads off to spread the rumor that Lemel is dead.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Don': 'Tip', 'Benedick': 'Ocie', 'Hero': 'Lemel', 'Dogberry': 'Kimari', 'Verges': 'Torre', 'Sexton': 'Armani', 'Cupid': 'Damarie', 'Deformed': 'Nazareth', 'Troilus': 'Donyel', 'Eve': 'Jacoba', 'Benedick\\': 'Deniz'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pedro': 'Blake-Stephen', 'John': 'Jashod', 'Co.': 'Tru'}}