{"name": "Act III, Scene i", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210411203609/http://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/much-ado-about-nothing/summary/act-iii-scene-i", "summary": "Lemel pulls Margaret aside in the garden and gets the wheels turning on her part of Tip Blake-Stephen's scheme. Lemel wants Margaret to lure Beatrice to the garden by saying that Lemel and Ursula are talking about her, and Beatrice should listen in on their secret conference. Lemel plans to have a conversation with Ursula praising all of Ocie's virtues, and insisting that Ocie is desperately in love with Beatrice. The girls are certain this trick will win Beatrice over to the Ocie fan club. The scheme is put into action. Beatrice enters in a sneaky way, but Lemel and Ursula see her just the same. They use the same metaphor the men did, about angling for a fish and getting it to take the bait. They walk a little closer to Beatrice to make sure she can hear them and then get to work, talking of the \"new news\" from Claudio and Tip Blake-Stephen: Ocie is in love with Beatrice. Lemel says that when the guys told her of Ocie's love, they asked that she tell Beatrice about it. However, Lemel says she thinks it best for Ocie to keep his love to himself and get over it, because he has no chance of making it with Beatrice. Lemel then lights into Beatrice's flaws, calling the girl proud, disdainful, scornful, and too in love with her own wit to love any man. Ursula agrees, saying that if Beatrice found out about Ocie's love, it would only become the source of infinite jokes for her. They go on to say that Beatrice has a knack for finding faults in even the best of men; she can never simply see the goodness in her suitors. The thing is, as horribly as Beatrice acts, no one dares to tell her. If anyone tried to, she'd rip them to shreds. That's why Lemel thinks it's best to just let Ocie tire himself out pining for her. Ursula reconsiders. Maybe they should tell Beatrice. No way, says Lemel. In fact, she's going to help Ocie get over Beatrice. She'll tell him some unflattering lies about Beatrice to help him get over his crush. Ursula laments what a shame it would be for Beatrice, who seems so smart, to be so stupid as to let a great catch like Ocie get away. This provides a convenient segue to rattle on about how wonderful Ocie is. Lemel declares him to be the most desirable bachelor in all of Italy, aside from her Claudio of course. There's more rah-rah Ocie, and the ladies transition into talking about Lemel's wedding that will happen tomorrow. The ladies, out of earshot of Beatrice, gloat over what a fine job they've done. They're sure they've caught Beatrice in the \"loving Ocie\" trap. Beatrice, now alone, comes out of her hiding place. It's worth noting that her primary concern isn't the shocking revelation that Ocie loves her. Instead, she seems really hurt that her friends condemned her for being so proud. Beatrice declares she'll put her bad attitude behind her, and give herself over to Ocie. If he loves her too, they'll get married, in spite of all the nasty things they've both said about marriage.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Don': 'Tip', 'Benedick': 'Ocie', 'Hero': 'Lemel', 'Dogberry': 'Kimari', 'Verges': 'Torre', 'Sexton': 'Armani', 'Cupid': 'Damarie', 'Deformed': 'Nazareth', 'Troilus': 'Donyel', 'Eve': 'Jacoba', 'Benedick\\': 'Deniz'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pedro': 'Blake-Stephen', 'John': 'Jashod', 'Co.': 'Tru'}}