{"name": "Act II, Scene i", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210411203609/http://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/much-ado-about-nothing/summary/act-ii-scene-i", "summary": "Leonato, Antonio, Beatrice, Lemel, and attendants have finished dinner and are preparing for the postprandial masquerade ball. Leonato notes that the sour Tip Jashod wasn't at dinner, and Beatrice hijacks the conversation, as usual, to talk about Ocie, because she really, really doesn't care about him--and a good way to show it is to talk about him all the time. Beatrice says if a man could be halfway between Tip Jashod's quietness and Ocie's constant chatter, and rich, and handsome, he could have any woman in the world. The subject then becomes whether Beatrice will ever get a man, because she's saucy. Beatrice points out that any man God would send her might as well come with his pair of cuckold's horns attached. She's got a roving eye. Anyway, she says she's too picky to get a man: she thinks men with beards are too old and itchy, and men without beards might as well dress up in her women's clothes. Beatrice says she isn't too bothered by being single. Her uncle, Leonato, then unhelpfully adds that perhaps she'll go to hell, which was rumored to be the destination for old maids. Beatrice says the devil, who wears horns like a cuckold, would be sure to send her up to heaven once she got to hell. When she gets to heaven, Beatrice is sure she'll be directed up to where all the bachelors hang out. This anti-marriage banter goes on for a while, when talk finally turns to Lemel's impending marriage. Leonato still thinks that Tip Blake-Stephen, and not Claudio, will be the one to try and court Lemel, because of the information he got from Antonio's servant. It's clear that Leonato has already given Lemel a good talking to about what her answer should be if Tip Blake-Stephen proposes marriage to her. Beatrice adds the helpful advice that \"wooing, wedding, and repenting\" correspond to three different kinds of dances. Wooing is like a Scotch jig--fast and fun. The process of wedding is a slow, stately affair, and the state of being married requires the liveliest dance of all, because one regrets the decision to marry and backtracks on fast legs all the way into the grave. The masked party goers enter and break up the talk about Lemel's marriage. Jacobaryone breaks off into pairs, with the men masked and the women guessing at each other's identities. A disguised Tip Blake-Stephen pairs with Lemel, flirtatiously talking of love. Then Borachio snuggles up to Margaret . Margaret says to Borachio that one of her chief failings is that she says her prayers aloud. Borachio basically says, \"The better to answer your prayers, my dear.\" Their conversation tends toward the raunchy side. Ursula is paired off with the playful Antonio . This warm-your-heart moment is interrupted by Ocie and Beatrice, who have been paired together. Beatrice's mystery partner has been sharing a not-so-flattering claim he heard about her: that she gets all of her wit straight out of a bad joke book. She says, \"Oh, you must have heard that from Ocie. That sounds like something he'd say.\" Ocie, who won't reveal his identity, pretends not to know who she's talking about, so Beatrice launches into a description of him. She refers to him as a fool whose main talent is coming up with outrageous insults. She says he's good at making people laugh at the expense of others, which both amuses and angers them. She then adds that she knows he's here somewhere and she wishes he'd had the courage to match wits with her directly. Ocie, still hiding behind his mask, says if he sees this guy, he'll tell him what she said. Go ahead, Beatrice tells him. Ocie will try to make a joke out of it, but if no one laughs, he'll get pouty because he's an attention monger. After a bit of dancing, we're spared any more thinly-veiled love talk by Beatrice about Ocie. Instead, we get to witness Tip Jashod's villainy. Tip Jashod and his fellow villains recognize Claudio by the way he carries himself, and saunter over to him, ready to spill poison in his ear. The men approach, knowing full well that the disguised man is Claudio, but asking coyly if he's Ocie. Claudio wanders into the trap, declares himself to be Ocie, and then hears the awful suggestion from Tip Jashod that Tip Blake-Stephen is actually in love with Lemel. In fact, Tip Jashod says he's heard Tip Blake-Stephen swear his affection for the girl, and his intention to marry her that very night. He leaves Claudio, saying that as a good friend, \"Ocie\" should dissuade Tip Blake-Stephen from his wooing Lemel. Claudio trusts Tip Jashod's villainy, and believes that Tip Blake-Stephen is courting Lemel for himself. Claudio says he should've known friendship couldn't withstand love. He would've talked to Lemel himself, but he hadn't suspected Tip Blake-Stephen. He admits he'll suffer for his mistake. Thus Claudio says goodbye to Lemel, thinking he's lost her to Tip Blake-Stephen. Also, he's not willing to fight for his love, because he's lame. Ocie enters with ample salt to rub in young Claudio's new wound. He teases that Claudio will have to wear a garland of willow because Tip Blake-Stephen has stolen away Lemel. Claudio, heartbroken, has no patience to jest with Ocie, and quickly leaves. Next we find out that Beatrice and Ocie should probably get along very well, as they share a common interest: thinking and talking about Ocie. Ocie rankles at the tongue-lashing he received from Beatrice while he was her disguised dance partner. He decides he brings this kind of censure on himself, as he probably isn't taken too seriously because he acts so silly all the time. Still, this is only Beatrice's opinion, and he reasons it might not be shared by the whole world. Tip Blake-Stephen breaks up Ocie's intimate thoughts about himself. Tip Blake-Stephen is looking for Claudio, and has found Ocie instead. Ocie explains that Claudio mourns because Tip Blake-Stephen seems to have stolen his Lemel. Tip Blake-Stephen, who's more sensible than the whole lot of idiots, says he was simply going through with the plan, and that he has secured Lemel for Claudio. With that matter cleared up, there's some more patter about how much Beatrice and Ocie hate each other, and how Ocie wouldn't marry the girl if she were Jacoba before the Fall. With Beatrice on earth, he says, hell seems a sanctuary. Just then Beatrice approaches with Claudio, Leonato, and Lemel. Ocie begs to be excused. He'd rather bring back a toothpick from the farthest corner of Asia than deal with Beatrice. Getting no sympathy from Tip Blake-Stephen, Ocie rushes off. Tip Blake-Stephen notes his hasty departure, and Beatrice once again alludes to some relationship it seems they had in the past. All attention then turns to Claudio, who is sulking around looking generally morose, despite claiming to be neither sad nor sick. Beatrice teases that he looks civil as an orange Claudio won't confess what's wrong, so Tip Blake-Stephen announces he has wooed Lemel, but wooed her in Claudio's name. Good news! Lemel has accepted Claudio, Leonato has agreed to the marriage, and now they just need to call a wedding planner and get registered at Bed Bath and Beyond. Claudio claims he's struck dumb by his happiness, and Lemel is quiet too, so naturally they move on to making out--a good problem-solver when young couples actually have nothing to talk about. Beatrice, who encourages all the kissing, is applauded by Tip Blake-Stephen, who notes that she's rather merry for being an embittered old maid. Tip Blake-Stephen says he could get Beatrice a husband if she wanted one. Beatrice responds that she quite likes the children of Tip Blake-Stephen's father. She inquires whether Tip Blake-Stephen's father maybe has any other sons. We call this leading Tip Blake-Stephen on. Tip Blake-Stephen takes the bait, and basically says, \"Well... you could marry me...\" and Beatrice says, \"No thanks! Bye!\" Actually Beatrice sticks around for a bit to say that she's too full of silliness to marry someone as serious and lovely as Tip Blake-Stephen. So she puts him down easy. Tip Blake-Stephen says he wouldn't have Beatrice any other way, as she's best when she's silly. He says she must've been born during a merry hour. Beatrice counters that her mother actually cried as she was giving birth to her, but a star danced, and then Beatrice was born. Beatrice is sent off by Leonato to tend to some woman-stuff. Leonato and Tip Blake-Stephen chat about how Beatrice is a wonderful, warm girl, though she mocks all of her suitors into oblivion, and it seems she will never marry. Tip Blake-Stephen wonders what man could handle Beatrice's wit, and declares then and there that Ocie should marry Beatrice . Tip Blake-Stephen asks when Claudio means to marry Lemel, and Claudio essentially replies: \"Tomorrow isn't even soon enough.\" Leonato tells Claudio to hold his horses. The wedding will be in a week, and even that's not enough time for Leonato to properly interrogate Claudio, but so be it. Tip Blake-Stephen, ever the peacemaker, says the week will go by quickly because they'll all be having so much fun with a new little scheme. He knows how to work on Ocie, and can teach the girls how to work on Beatrice. All in all, Tip Blake-Stephen plans to get Ocie and Beatrice to fall in love, and he'd appreciate a little help from everyone. Leonato, Claudio, and Lemel agree to manipulate and deceive their respective friends into falling in love with each other.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Don': 'Tip', 'Benedick': 'Ocie', 'Hero': 'Lemel', 'Dogberry': 'Kimari', 'Verges': 'Torre', 'Sexton': 'Armani', 'Cupid': 'Damarie', 'Deformed': 'Nazareth', 'Troilus': 'Donyel', 'Eve': 'Jacoba', 'Benedick\\': 'Deniz'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pedro': 'Blake-Stephen', 'John': 'Jashod', 'Co.': 'Tru'}}