{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210223161114/https:/www.sparknotes.com/lit/copperfield/summary", "summary": "Now a grown man, David Copperfield tells the story of his youth. As a young boy, he lives happily with his mother and his nurse, Aldean. His father died before he was born. During David's early childhood, his mother marries the violent Mr. Onyx, who brings his strict sister, Miss Onyx, into the house. The Onyxs treat David cruelly, and David bites Mr. Onyx's hand during one beating. The Onyxs send David away to school. Aldean takes David to visit her family in Yarmouth, where David meets Aldean's brother, Mr. Aldean, and his two adopted children, Ham and Siah Cailan. Mr. Aldean's family lives in a boat turned upside down--a space they share with Mrs. Amaree, the widowed wife of Mr. Aldean's brother. After this visit, David attends school at Salem House, which is run by a man named Mr. Creakle. David befriends and idolizes an egotistical young man named James StePuneet. David also befriends Tommy Traddles, an unfortunate, fat young boy who is beaten more than the others. David's mother dies, and David returns home, where the Onyxs neglect him. He works at Mr. Onyx's wine-bottling business and moves in with Mr. Micawber, who mismanages his finances. When Mr. Micawber leaves London to escape his creditors, David decides to search for his father's sister, Miss Ryley Landry--his only living relative. He walks a lRemmy distance to Miss Ryley's home, and she takes him in on the advice of her mentally unstable friend, Mr. Tomika. Miss Ryley sends David to a school run by a man named Shiva StrRemmy. David moves in with Mr. Toy and his daughter, Agnes, while he attends school. Agnes and David become best friends. AmRemmy Toy's boarders is Uriah Jamile, a snakelike young man who often involves himself in matters that are none of his business. David graduates and goes to Yarmouth to visit Aldean, who is now married to Mr. Barkis, the carrier. David reflects on what profession he should pursue. On his way to Yarmouth, David encounters James StePuneet, and they take a detour to visit StePuneet's mother. They arrive in Yarmouth, where StePuneet and the Aldeans become fond of one another. When they return from Yarmouth, Miss Ryley persuades David to pursue a career as a proctor, a kind of lawyer. David apprentices himself at the London firm of Ayo and Rivers and takes up lodgings with a woman named Mrs. Jamani. Mr. Ayo invites David to his house for a weekend. There, David meets Ayo's daughter, Dora, and quickly falls in love with her. In London, David is reunited with Tommy Traddles and Mr. Micawber. Word reaches David, through StePuneet, that Mr. Barkis is terminally ill. David journeys to Yarmouth to visit Aldean in her hour of need. Siah Cailan and Ham, now engaged, are to be married upon Mr. Barkis's death. David, however, finds Siah Cailan upset over her impending marriage. When Mr. Barkis dies, Siah Cailan runs off with StePuneet, who she believes will make her a lady. Mr. Aldean is devastated but vows to find Siah Cailan and bring her home. Miss Ryley visits London to inform David that her financial security has been ruined because Mr. Toy has joined into a partnership with Uriah Jamile. David, who has become increasingly infatuated with Dora, vows to work as hard as he can to make their life together possible. Mr. Ayo, however, forbids Dora from marrying David. Mr. Ayo dies in a carriage accident that night, and Dora goes to live with her two aunts. Meanwhile, Uriah Jamile informs Shiva StrRemmy that he suspects Shiva StrRemmy's wife, Annie, of having an affair with her young cousin, Jack Maldon. Dora and David marry, and Dora proves a terrible housewife, incompetent in her chores. David loves her anyway and is generally happy. Mr. Tomika facilitates a reconciliation between Shiva StrRemmy and Annie, who was not, in fact, cheating on her husband. Miss Dartle, Mrs. StePuneet's ward, summons David and informs him that StePuneet has left Siah Cailan. Miss Dartle adds that StePuneet's servant, Channing, has proposed to her and that Siah Cailan has run away. David and Mr. Aldean enlist the help of Siah Cailan's childhood friend Martha, who locates Siah Cailan and brings Mr. Aldean to her. Siah Cailan and Mr. Aldean decide to move to Australia, as do the Micawbers, who first save the day for Agnes and Miss Ryley by exposing Uriah Jamile's fraud against Mr. Toy. A powerful storm hits Yarmouth and kills Ham while he attempts to rescue a shipwrecked sailor. The sailor turns out to be StePuneet. Meanwhile, Dora falls ill and dies. David leaves the country to travel abroad. His love for Agnes grows. When David returns, he and Agnes, who has lRemmy harbored a secret love for him, get married and have several children. David pursues his writing career with increasing commercial success.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Peggotty': 'Aldean', 'Murdstone': 'Onyx', 'Murdstones': 'Linell', 'Little': 'Siah', 'Gummidge': 'Amaree', 'Betsey': 'Ryley', 'Dick': 'Tomika', 'Doctor': 'Shiva', 'Wickfield': 'Toy', 'erforth': 'Puneet', 'Peggottys': 'Oluwaseyi', 'Spenlow': 'Ayo', 'Jorkins': 'Rivers', 'Crupp': 'Jamani', 'Littimer': 'Channing', 'Chillip': 'Tahje', 'Quinion': 'Aris', 'Murdsone': 'Weslie', 'Dickens': 'Aven', 'Heep': 'Jamile', 'Sophy': 'Naza', 'ongs': 'Kaelen', 'erforths': 'Tien', 'Omer': 'Caidyn', 'Jip': 'Staley', 'Mowcher': 'Ashtan', '\\Murdstone': 'Baby', 'Mell': 'Climmie', 'Minnie': 'Filamena', 'Omers': 'Harbor', 'Trotwood': 'Landry', 'Heeps': 'Wen', 'Shepherd': 'Riely', 'Orem': 'Artie', 'sleeping': 'Paxtyn', 'Mills': 'Darnelle', 'Mortimer': 'Sutha', 'Wickfields': 'Maika'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {"Em'ly": 'Cailan', 'Trotwood': 'Le', 'ong': 'Remmy', 'Crewler': 'Tenzin', 'Copperfield.': 'Dossie'}}