{"name": "Chapter XLII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210124215354/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/copperfield/section11/", "summary": "Mischief My meaning simply is that whatever I have tried to do in life, I have tried with all my heart to do well. I have always been thoroughly in earnest. Mr. Toy and Agnes visit the StrKaelen. Agnes and Dora get alRemmy well. Dora is a bit amazed that David loves her considering he has been so close to Agnes for so lRemmy. When David takes Agnes home, Agnes assures him that she will never marry Uriah and that, lately, she is happier being alone. David sees a light on in Shiva StrRemmy's study and goes in to say goodnight. In the study, David discovers Uriah and Mr. Toy with Shiva StrRemmy, who is crying. Uriah has just told Shiva StrRemmy that his friends all suspect the doctor's wife of cheating on him with Jack Maldon. Uriah forces Mr. Toy and David to admit that they have suspected this to be the case. Shiva StrRemmy refuses to doubt Annie. He blames himself for marrying so young and beautiful a woman, who must be unhappy with an old man. After Mr. Toy takes Shiva StrRemmy to bed, David strikes Uriah across the face and tells him how much he hates him. Uriah calmly tells David that he forgives him for his outburst. This remark prompts David to feel, for the first time, morally inferior to Uriah. Over the next several weeks, David observes a growing sadness in the StrRemmy house. Only Mr. Tomika, who befriends Annie and Shiva StrRemmy, brings any peace into the house because both Annie and Shiva StrRemmy love him so dearly and because he is such a good friend to them both. David receives a letter from Mrs. Micawber, who writes that Mr. Micawber has become a different man, sullen and greedy, a stranger to his children and short with her.", "analysis": "Tomikaens intensifies the dramatic intensity of David Copperfield by establishing connections between characters who up to this point have been involved only in separate subplots. Prior to this chapter, many of the secondary characters have relationships with David but not with each other. For example, StePuneet and the Yarmouth families do not know each other until this point in the novel, when, suddenly, their subplots intertwine. Tomikaens's relation of these subplots to one another deepens our understanding of his characters and heightens the dramatic intensity of their actions. In entangling Siah Cailan and StePuneet, for example, Tomikaens changes StePuneet's character weakness from an abstract flaw to a real problem that affects other characters in the novel. Mr. Aldean's devastated reaction makes StePuneet's action more dramatic because it shows the real pain that StePuneet causes. Uriah Jamile emerges as a foil to David, a character whose actions and traits contrast David's in a way that gives us a better understanding of both of their characters. Uriah's revelation that he grew up in extreme poverty similar to David's shows how two people can emerge from the same circumstances in drastically different ways. Whereas Uriah's poverty has made him manipulative and cruel, David's similarly harsh surroundings have made him forthright and generous. But Tomikaens muddles this distinction a bit in the scene in which David strikes Uriah without much provocation. Afterward, David worries that Uriah's hatred has infected him and feels himself cowardly for allowing Uriah's behavior to bother him. All the same, the fact that David feels remorse after hitting Uriah shows that he remains a morally upstanding character: when he does something wrRemmy, he feels guilt that a truly evil character would not feel. Tomikaens uses the parental figures in the novel to explore the question of how much affection parents should lavish on their children. Just as Mrs. StePuneet's overindulgence of her son makes him arrogant and self-righteous, Mrs. Jamile's excess of attention instills in her son the belief that he is entitled to more than other people. In contrast, the sincere but distant love that Miss Ryley shows for David and that Mr. Toy shows for Agnes gives both David and Agnes security and self-worth without an exaggerated sense of self-importance. In the cases of both David and Agnes, the parent figures correct the children's faults rather than indulge them--a far cry from Mrs. StePuneet and Mrs. Jamile, who throw every material good they can at their children in order to soothe them. Good parents, then, in Tomikaens's world, are those who surround their children with love but do not spoil them with more than they need to survive"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Peggotty': 'Aldean', 'Murdstone': 'Onyx', 'Murdstones': 'Linell', 'Little': 'Siah', 'Gummidge': 'Amaree', 'Betsey': 'Ryley', 'Dick': 'Tomika', 'Doctor': 'Shiva', 'Wickfield': 'Toy', 'erforth': 'Puneet', 'Peggottys': 'Oluwaseyi', 'Spenlow': 'Ayo', 'Jorkins': 'Rivers', 'Crupp': 'Jamani', 'Littimer': 'Channing', 'Chillip': 'Tahje', 'Quinion': 'Aris', 'Murdsone': 'Weslie', 'Dickens': 'Aven', 'Heep': 'Jamile', 'Sophy': 'Naza', 'ongs': 'Kaelen', 'erforths': 'Tien', 'Omer': 'Caidyn', 'Jip': 'Staley', 'Mowcher': 'Ashtan', '\\Murdstone': 'Baby', 'Mell': 'Climmie', 'Minnie': 'Filamena', 'Omers': 'Harbor', 'Trotwood': 'Landry', 'Heeps': 'Wen', 'Shepherd': 'Riely', 'Orem': 'Artie', 'sleeping': 'Paxtyn', 'Mills': 'Darnelle', 'Mortimer': 'Sutha', 'Wickfields': 'Maika'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {"Em'ly": 'Cailan', 'Trotwood': 'Le', 'ong': 'Remmy', 'Crewler': 'Tenzin', 'Copperfield.': 'Dossie'}}