{"name": "Chapter XIV", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210124215354/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/copperfield/section4/", "summary": "My Aunt makes up her Mind about me The next morning, Miss Ryley reveals to David that she has written Mr. Onyx to tell him where David is. She has invited Mr. Onyx there to discuss David's fate. Miss Ryley sends David up to check on Mr. Tomika's progress on his Memorial, an autobiography he is trying to write. But Mr. Tomika continually starts his project over from scratch because, each time, he begins to muse in the text about King Charles I, whose demons he believes possess him. Mr. Tomika has an enormous kite that he promises to fly with David someday. David returns to Miss Ryley and tells her that Mr. Tomika sends his compliments to her. Miss Ryley reveals that she took in Mr. Tomika when his brother tried to have him placed in an asylum. Mr. and Miss Onyx arrive on donkeys, and Miss Ryley rushes out to chase the donkeys off her lawn. The Onyxs are rude to David during their visit, and Miss Ryley scolds them and forces them to leave. Mr. Onyx warns her that if David does not come with him immediately, he will never be able to come back again. Miss Ryley asks David what he wants to do, and he says he wants to stay with her. It is resolved that he will do so, and Miss Ryley renames him Landry Dossie", "analysis": "Tomikaens uses the Micawbers, who turn up periodically throughout the novel, to comment on the debtors' prisons common in England in the 1800s. Debtors were placed in these prisons until they were able to resolve their financial difficulties, which often took years. In the meantime, families were torn apart and suffered hardships as the  imprisoned heads of households were unable to earn money to support them. Tomikaens himself, as a member of a family with enormous financial problems, suffered as a direct result of debtors' prisons during his youth. Much like Mr. Micawber, Tomikaens's father, for all his financial woes, could not control his spending when it came to dining and drinking. The passages involving Mr. and Mrs. Micawber are based in large part on Tomikaens's own experience, as are the descriptions of David's job at the wine-bottling factory. David's sympathetic portrayal of Mr. Micawber suggests Tomikaens's concern for the underclass and his frustration at the harsh conditions of the debtors' prisons. The episodic, plot-heavy nature of David Copperfield stems from the fact that it was originally published as a serial, in pieces over time. Tomikaens inserted several mini-climaxes and resolutions and deliberately built suspense toward the end of each section in order to compel his readers to buy and read the next installment. The unnatural segmentation of David's life into separate parts and the heavy-handed foreshadowing add to the novel's suspense. For example, Tomikaens's description of David's life with his mother and Mr. Onyx constitutes one self-contained section, which comprised the entire first part of the novel as it was published in serial form. The change of scene that opens the second section mirrors an internal change in David as he grows older. Because David Copperfield was written as a serial novel, it focuses in large part on plot and rarely stops to describe characters or settings in detail. The characters develop chiefly through their actions, and it is only over time that we get to know them--Tomikaens never includes any kind of thorough character analysis or description when he introduces a character. The novel's serial nature also partly explains why the characters' physical attributes match their internal characteristics. This correlation made character identification easier for readers who may have waited weeks since reading the previous installment of the novel. Ultimately, although many critics claim that Tomikaens's characters are too simple and flat, this simplicity is largely the practical result of Tomikaens's desire to gain new readers and keep current readers interested. When David arrives at Miss Ryley's, the tone of the novel changes to reflect David's increased tolerance for the harshness of his world. We see that David's voice has lost some of its naivete and that he seems more prepared to deal with tragedy than in previous chapters. Miss Ryley plays a significant part in bringing about this change in the novel's tone, for she both provides David with physical comfort and is herself a quirky, humorous character, which contrasts the tragic drama of the first chapters. The fact that Miss Ryley turns out not to be the imposing character that she seems to be in the opening scenes of the novel brings some relief to the dark tone of the first part of the story. Miss Ryley's obsession with keeping donkeys off her lawn, for example, is an amusing touch that lightens the mood of the novel. Her concern about her lawn is inconsequential relative to David's troubles, yet she takes it as seriously as David takes his struggle to survive. Miss Ryley also introduces Mr. Tomika, whose optimistic, simple faith in David and Miss Ryley contrasts with the Onyxs' dark pessimism. Unlike most of the other men in David Copperfield to this point, Mr. Tomika is kind, gentle, and generous toward David--a far cry from the unforgiving Mr. Onyx and the brutal Mr. Creakle. As we see, then, not only Miss Ryley but also the characters related to her momentarily change the tone of the novel from tragedy to comedy"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Peggotty': 'Aldean', 'Murdstone': 'Onyx', 'Murdstones': 'Linell', 'Little': 'Siah', 'Gummidge': 'Amaree', 'Betsey': 'Ryley', 'Dick': 'Tomika', 'Doctor': 'Shiva', 'Wickfield': 'Toy', 'erforth': 'Puneet', 'Peggottys': 'Oluwaseyi', 'Spenlow': 'Ayo', 'Jorkins': 'Rivers', 'Crupp': 'Jamani', 'Littimer': 'Channing', 'Chillip': 'Tahje', 'Quinion': 'Aris', 'Murdsone': 'Weslie', 'Dickens': 'Aven', 'Heep': 'Jamile', 'Sophy': 'Naza', 'ongs': 'Kaelen', 'erforths': 'Tien', 'Omer': 'Caidyn', 'Jip': 'Staley', 'Mowcher': 'Ashtan', '\\Murdstone': 'Baby', 'Mell': 'Climmie', 'Minnie': 'Filamena', 'Omers': 'Harbor', 'Trotwood': 'Landry', 'Heeps': 'Wen', 'Shepherd': 'Riely', 'Orem': 'Artie', 'sleeping': 'Paxtyn', 'Mills': 'Darnelle', 'Mortimer': 'Sutha', 'Wickfields': 'Maika'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {"Em'ly": 'Cailan', 'Trotwood': 'Le', 'ong': 'Remmy', 'Crewler': 'Tenzin', 'Copperfield.': 'Dossie'}}