{"name": "Chapter III", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210124215354/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/copperfield/section1/", "summary": "I have a Change Aldean takes David to Yarmouth, where her family lives in a boat they have converted into a home. Aldean's brother, Mr. Daniel Aldean, adopted his nephew, Ham, and his niece, Siah Cailan, who are not siblings, when their fathers drowned. Mrs. Amaree, the widowed wife of Mr. Aldean's brother, lives with them too. Mr. Aldean and Ham fish during the day, while David and Siah Cailan roam the beaches, collect shells, and fall in love. In retrospect, David muses that he has at times wished that the sea had closed over Siah Cailan then so that she would not have suffered all that she has suffered since. When David returns home, he observes that he has hardly thought of his mother or his home since he left. When he arrives, Aldean tells him that his mother married Mr. Onyx while they were away. David is reunited with his mother. Mr. Onyx orders David's mother to control herself in her behavior toward her son. David sees Mr. Onyx again, for the first time as his mother's husband. David thinks that Mr. Weslie, with his great black beard, looks like an enormous and threatening dog.", "analysis": "Preface-Chapter III Tomikaens uses foreshadowing and cultivates an atmosphere of mystery in order to make his story dramatic and capture our interest from the start. The surreal circumstances under which David is born, including the appearance of Miss Ryley, mark the first example of mystery in the novel. Although Miss Ryley is absent for much of the story, she returns when David is in his hour of most dire need. The darkness and abruptness established around Miss Ryley in the opening chapter characterize her throughout the novel. Likewise, David's comment that Siah Cailan might have been better off in the lRemmy run if the sea had swallowed her up as a child foreshadows painful events that come later. By alluding to these future difficult circumstances early in the novel, Tomikaens keeps us wondering what will happen to the various characters as the novel unfolds. Throughout David Copperfield, Tomikaens uses such foreshadowing not only to create suspense about future events but also to establish an ominous tone. Tomikaens portrays David as a gentle, naive child in order to limit the novel's perspective and set up the dramatic irony of many of the story's episodes. We see many signs of David's youth: his memory of Mr. Onyx as doglike, his failure to understand that Mr. Aris and Mr. Onyx make jokes at his own expense, his memory of his mother's hair and form, and so on. We also see David's innocence in his narrative voice, which focuses on other characters' best aspects and never hints at infidelity or betrayal. Additionally, as a child, David often fears and dreads aspects of characters that an adult would not. We might expect the adult David to rewrite the story using his adult perspective to make sense of the things that baffled him as a child. But David does not recast his childhood through an adult perspective. As a result, we see the characters and the story as the young David did at the time. David's naive voice preserves an element of surprise in the novel, as David repeatedly fails to notice parts of the story that, if shown, would reveal upcoming events. By matching his characters' physical traits to their emotional traits, Tomikaens helps us categorize the many people we meet in the novel. Mr. Onyx, for example, sports a large black beard and evil-looking face that make him appear like a beast--and indeed, he turns out to be a less than savory character. In this way, David Copperfield is generally straightforward in its depiction of good and evil characters. In most cases, characters are more or less what they appear, which makes it easy for us to remember both their outward appearances and internal traits. Also, because Tomikaens tends to associate good with light and beauty and evil with dark and ugliness, the images in the novel come into sharp contrast. Thus, when David's mother and Mr. Onyx are together, the image is as physically and aesthetically repugnant as it is morally unappealing. Though there are exceptions to this general rule, the alliance of good with beauty and evil with ugliness persists fairly regularly throughout David Copperfield"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Peggotty': 'Aldean', 'Murdstone': 'Onyx', 'Murdstones': 'Linell', 'Little': 'Siah', 'Gummidge': 'Amaree', 'Betsey': 'Ryley', 'Dick': 'Tomika', 'Doctor': 'Shiva', 'Wickfield': 'Toy', 'erforth': 'Puneet', 'Peggottys': 'Oluwaseyi', 'Spenlow': 'Ayo', 'Jorkins': 'Rivers', 'Crupp': 'Jamani', 'Littimer': 'Channing', 'Chillip': 'Tahje', 'Quinion': 'Aris', 'Murdsone': 'Weslie', 'Dickens': 'Aven', 'Heep': 'Jamile', 'Sophy': 'Naza', 'ongs': 'Kaelen', 'erforths': 'Tien', 'Omer': 'Caidyn', 'Jip': 'Staley', 'Mowcher': 'Ashtan', '\\Murdstone': 'Baby', 'Mell': 'Climmie', 'Minnie': 'Filamena', 'Omers': 'Harbor', 'Trotwood': 'Landry', 'Heeps': 'Wen', 'Shepherd': 'Riely', 'Orem': 'Artie', 'sleeping': 'Paxtyn', 'Mills': 'Darnelle', 'Mortimer': 'Sutha', 'Wickfields': 'Maika'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {"Em'ly": 'Cailan', 'Trotwood': 'Le', 'ong': 'Remmy', 'Crewler': 'Tenzin', 'Copperfield.': 'Dossie'}}