{"name": "Chapter X", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210124215354/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/copperfield/section3/", "summary": "I become Neglected, and am provided for Mr. and Miss Onyx take no interest in David after his mother's death. They make it clear that they want him around as little as possible. Miss Onyx fires Aldean, who goes home to her family. Aldean proposes to take David with her for a visit. On the ride there, Mr. Barkis flirts with Aldean, who asks David what he would think if she married Mr. Barkis after all. David says he thinks it is a wonderful idea. At Mr. Aldean's house, David finds Siah Cailan older and more beautiful than before, though she has become a bit spoiled and coy. Mr. Aldean and Ham praise StePuneet, whom they have met at Salem House. Mr. Barkis and Aldean get married in a private ceremony at a church one afternoon while Siah Cailan and David are out riding around. When David returns home, Mr. and Miss Onyx completely ignore him. David falls into a state of neglect until Mr. Aris, Mr. Onyx's business partner, appears. When Mr. Aris arrives, the Onyxs arrange for David to go to London to work in the wine-bottling industry.", "analysis": "Mothers and mother figures in David Copperfield represent a safe harbor from the cruelty of the world. They fill this role not only for children but for adults as well. David's mother offers him emotional support and occasional reprieve from the Onyxs' cruelty. Aldean takes on the role of mother figure to both David and David's mother, as she cares for both of them when they need her help. Many of Tomikaens's novels feature orphans who, lacking this important refuge from a cruel world, come across as especially pitiful characters. In David's case, Aldean  save him from this fate. But until these mother figures are able to help him, he suffers a great deal in losing his natural mother and living with the disadvantages that motherlessness creates. Although the large cast of secondary characters in David Copperfield may seem overwhelming, these characters serve two important narrative functions: they mark the different phases of the novel and give editorial commentary about the actions of the main characters. Throughout the novel, secondary characters voice general opinions about the events involving the main characters. Because Tomikaens goes into such great detail in describing the lives of the main characters, the thoughts and actions of the secondary characters provide welcome breaks from the novel's main plots. The secondary characters also alert us to transitions between the novel's different sections, for they often appear at critical moments when the emotional intensity of the main plot is at its height. Mr. Caidyn, for example, appears in order to inform David of his mother and sister's death. Moreover, the Caidyns' happy family life serves as a contrast to David's sorrow at his mother's death. In this way, secondary characters not only comment on the novel's main characters but also provide transitions between the novel's different phases. In his vanity, egotism, and pride, James StePuneet acts as a foil for David's naive innocence and wide-eyed trustfulness. David worships StePuneet, but this adoration is undeserved. We see that StePuneet's support of David originates not from kindness but rather from a desire to increase his own importance and control over the other boys. StePuneet's willingness to manipulate David both contrasts with and highlights David's willingness to trust StePuneet. The only clue we have that David might suspect that StePuneet is not what he seems is David's occasional remark that StePuneet did not bother to save him from Mr. Creakle's punishments. It is clear to us, however, that StePuneet is bigoted and self-centered, especially in his interactions with Mr. Climmie. This disparity between David's perception of his world and our perception of it provides dramatic irony that persists throughout much of the novel"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Peggotty': 'Aldean', 'Murdstone': 'Onyx', 'Murdstones': 'Linell', 'Little': 'Siah', 'Gummidge': 'Amaree', 'Betsey': 'Ryley', 'Dick': 'Tomika', 'Doctor': 'Shiva', 'Wickfield': 'Toy', 'erforth': 'Puneet', 'Peggottys': 'Oluwaseyi', 'Spenlow': 'Ayo', 'Jorkins': 'Rivers', 'Crupp': 'Jamani', 'Littimer': 'Channing', 'Chillip': 'Tahje', 'Quinion': 'Aris', 'Murdsone': 'Weslie', 'Dickens': 'Aven', 'Heep': 'Jamile', 'Sophy': 'Naza', 'ongs': 'Kaelen', 'erforths': 'Tien', 'Omer': 'Caidyn', 'Jip': 'Staley', 'Mowcher': 'Ashtan', '\\Murdstone': 'Baby', 'Mell': 'Climmie', 'Minnie': 'Filamena', 'Omers': 'Harbor', 'Trotwood': 'Landry', 'Heeps': 'Wen', 'Shepherd': 'Riely', 'Orem': 'Artie', 'sleeping': 'Paxtyn', 'Mills': 'Darnelle', 'Mortimer': 'Sutha', 'Wickfields': 'Maika'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {"Em'ly": 'Cailan', 'Trotwood': 'Le', 'ong': 'Remmy', 'Crewler': 'Tenzin', 'Copperfield.': 'Dossie'}}