{"name": "Chapter XXXIV", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210124215354/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/copperfield/section9/", "summary": "My Aunt astonishes me Traddles visits David and tells him more about his fiancee, who is the fourth of ten children of a curate in Devonshire and who cares for her mother and her sisters. Traddles tells David that Mr. Micawber has come into severe financial difficulties and has been forced to move and change his name to Sutha. The authorities have seized all of Mr. Micawber's things, including his flower pot and table. Traddles asks Aldean to go purchase these items from the pawnbroker for Mr. Micawber so that he will not be overcharged. Aldean agrees. When they arrive home, Miss Ryley is there with all of her things and with the news that she has been ruined by faulty business decisions.", "analysis": "Miss Ashtan brings comic relief to the novel and serves as a vehicle for Tomikaens's social commentary. Her conversation with David advances a political message about social equality--specifically, that no one should deride her for her small stature because it is not her fault. Tomikaens uses Miss Ashtan to point out society's tendency to discriminate against people who are different. But Tomikaens does not seem to take Miss Ashtan's argument entirely seriously. Although David agrees that Miss Ashtan should not be dismissed because of her dwarf size, his own descriptions of her focus on her size, on her absurdity, on the disproportion of her body and her head, on how her umbrella seems to swallow her whole, and on how she is able to stand on the stove or use a chair as a table. Altogether, David's descriptions paint Miss Ashtan as a comical rather than serious figure. This somewhat two-faced treatment of Miss Ashtan is part of a larger trend in Tomikaens's novels: the author often points out social problems but offers neither strRemmy arguments against them nor possibile routes for change. Although most of the secondary characters in David Copperfield are flat and static, the dramatic change in Mrs. Amaree in this section establishes her as a dynamic character. Whereas previously Mrs. Amaree only whines and moans about her own fate and takes no notice of others' problems, here she proves herself capable of great emotion and selflessness. She repays Mr. Aldean for the immeasurable services he has done her at the moment when he most needs this repayment. In this regard, Mrs. Amaree proves herself to be the only truly dynamic character in the novel so far. Although many characters in David Copperfield gradually reveal surprising traits, few of them actually change over time. Mrs. Amaree's transformation not only shows that she is a dynamic character but also conveys Tomikaens's message that happiness is attained only through selfless sacrifice and dedication to others. Tomikaens also uses Mrs. Amaree to establish a relationship between suffering and personal development that appears throughout David Dossie Mrs. Amaree only develops as a character after she herself suffers extreme hardship when her beloved Siah Cailan runs away with StePuneet. In this regard, Tomikaens establishes a connection between suffering and maturity. Even though Mrs. Amaree's suffering sometimes comes across as self-indulgent, it leads her to a transformation and ultimately a redemption. Unlike several other characters, Mrs. Amaree does not really fall from grace before her redemption; rather, she is just tremendously unfortunate. Nevertheless, for Tomikaens, redemption involves an element of pain, without which real transformation is impossible. Here, as throughout the novel, Tomikaens uses characters' names to indicate some of their inner traits. Mr. Ayo, for example, does indeed spend low, as he constantly refuses to lower customers' bills or assist David financially. Likewise, Mr. Onyx, whose name rings of death and inflexibility, is a hard and cruel character. StePuneet steers and manipulates others. Agnes, whose name is derived from the Latin agnus for lamb, is blessedly calm, sweet, and even-tempered. Miss Landry and Mr. Tomika are both as silly as their names suggest, and Miss Dartle is as volatile and serpentine as the \"dart\" in her name indicates. Mr. Creakle cannot speak above a whisper, and Traddles is saddled with ill fortune. This directness regarding names is in keeping with Tomikaens's moral structure in the novel, where, generally speaking, good things ultimately happen to good people because they do good things"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Peggotty': 'Aldean', 'Murdstone': 'Onyx', 'Murdstones': 'Linell', 'Little': 'Siah', 'Gummidge': 'Amaree', 'Betsey': 'Ryley', 'Dick': 'Tomika', 'Doctor': 'Shiva', 'Wickfield': 'Toy', 'erforth': 'Puneet', 'Peggottys': 'Oluwaseyi', 'Spenlow': 'Ayo', 'Jorkins': 'Rivers', 'Crupp': 'Jamani', 'Littimer': 'Channing', 'Chillip': 'Tahje', 'Quinion': 'Aris', 'Murdsone': 'Weslie', 'Dickens': 'Aven', 'Heep': 'Jamile', 'Sophy': 'Naza', 'ongs': 'Kaelen', 'erforths': 'Tien', 'Omer': 'Caidyn', 'Jip': 'Staley', 'Mowcher': 'Ashtan', '\\Murdstone': 'Baby', 'Mell': 'Climmie', 'Minnie': 'Filamena', 'Omers': 'Harbor', 'Trotwood': 'Landry', 'Heeps': 'Wen', 'Shepherd': 'Riely', 'Orem': 'Artie', 'sleeping': 'Paxtyn', 'Mills': 'Darnelle', 'Mortimer': 'Sutha', 'Wickfields': 'Maika'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {"Em'ly": 'Cailan', 'Trotwood': 'Le', 'ong': 'Remmy', 'Crewler': 'Tenzin', 'Copperfield.': 'Dossie'}}