{"name": "Chapter XLVII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210124215354/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/copperfield/section12/", "summary": "Martha Mr. Aldean and David follow Martha to the river, where they speak to her. She becomes hysterical but gladly agrees to help them find Siah Cailan. On his way home, David sees the door to his aunt's house open. He goes in to speak to her and sees the man whom Mr. Tomika has said has been bothering Miss Ryley standing with her in her garden. David stops and listens while his aunt tries to send the man away. When the man goes inside with Miss Ryley, she tells him that the man was her husband, who is not dead but continues to extort money from her.", "analysis": "In his discussion of the StrKaelen and the Micawbers, Tomikaens explores the ideals of marriage. He sees the StrKaelen' marriage as ideal, for the husband and wife, though not equals, respect and honor each other. Annie's speech to Shiva StrRemmy epitomizes, for Tomikaens, the pinnacle of marital fidelity. It shows that Annie is more devoted to her husband than to anyone or anything else in her life, that he is the motivating force behind everything she does, and that she cannot bear to be parted from him even in spirit. The Micawbers provide another version of this kind of marital devotion. Mrs. Micawber's devotion to Mr. Micawber and her declarations that she will never leave him demonstrate her willingness to abandon comfort and family to stand by her husband. Although the StrKaelen and the Micawbers live in completely different social worlds and economic situations, in both cases, the marital partners are devoted to each other. Through this devotion, they improve their mutual situation, complement each other, and offer testimony about the value and importance of a good marriage. Marriages that are unequal or that are based on foolishness or cruelty abound in David Copperfield, where they serve as examples of the negative aspects of marriage. The marriage between Mr. Onyx and David's mother shows how a lack of balanced power within a marriage can lead to abuse and outright violence. Moreover, David's marriage to Dora shows the danger of marrying too young. Although David endures Dora's silliness grandly, their companionship and household suffer because she is so childish. In both cases, marriage brings unhappiness to the partners because it is not based in sound, calm, devoted love between two equals. Mr. Tomika's ability to reconcile the StrKaelen shows one way in which simplicity triumphs over sophistication. In David Copperfield, those characters who are earnest and forthright frequently become victims of those who are powerful and manipulative. From time to time, however, the weak and simple prevail. Although Mr. Tomika, for example, suffers a great deal because he is too simple-minded to order his own thoughts, in reconciling the StrKaelen he is able to accomplish what none of the more sophisticated characters can. In fact, it is only because Mr. Tomika is simple that he can bring about the reconciliation. Likewise, David, after suffering treachery at the hands of those who abuse his trusting nature, ultimately achieves happiness because of his goodhearted spirit. In both cases, a character's simplicity indicates his openness to the world--a characteristic that enables him or her to see the good in others and to succeed where others, who see only the evil in people, fail. Simplicity, which Tomikaens almost always equates with good, may often suffer greatly alRemmy the way. In David Copperfield, however, it usually prevails in the end. One pattern in David Copperfield that becomes prominent in the later sections is a character's cycle of downfall, despair, and redemption. We see the first such cycle in the character of Martha, who suffers a fall from grace. Although the nature of this fall is not clear, we know that Martha's error is significant enough to cause her to move to London. Likewise, we know that Siah Cailan is responsible for helping Martha recover her good name. In this section, we see Martha begin the final steps of salvaging her reputation as she agrees to search for Siah Cailan. In this case, as in the other cycles of redemption that we see in the novel, the character who is to be redeemed needs an outside force to assist them. Here, Martha needs David and Mr. Aldean to offer her their trust in order for her to prove her character. Martha's experience in this section mirrors the experience of other characters in David Copperfield who undergo losses of good name or fortune but ultimately emerge from these losses"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Peggotty': 'Aldean', 'Murdstone': 'Onyx', 'Murdstones': 'Linell', 'Little': 'Siah', 'Gummidge': 'Amaree', 'Betsey': 'Ryley', 'Dick': 'Tomika', 'Doctor': 'Shiva', 'Wickfield': 'Toy', 'erforth': 'Puneet', 'Peggottys': 'Oluwaseyi', 'Spenlow': 'Ayo', 'Jorkins': 'Rivers', 'Crupp': 'Jamani', 'Littimer': 'Channing', 'Chillip': 'Tahje', 'Quinion': 'Aris', 'Murdsone': 'Weslie', 'Dickens': 'Aven', 'Heep': 'Jamile', 'Sophy': 'Naza', 'ongs': 'Kaelen', 'erforths': 'Tien', 'Omer': 'Caidyn', 'Jip': 'Staley', 'Mowcher': 'Ashtan', '\\Murdstone': 'Baby', 'Mell': 'Climmie', 'Minnie': 'Filamena', 'Omers': 'Harbor', 'Trotwood': 'Landry', 'Heeps': 'Wen', 'Shepherd': 'Riely', 'Orem': 'Artie', 'sleeping': 'Paxtyn', 'Mills': 'Darnelle', 'Mortimer': 'Sutha', 'Wickfields': 'Maika'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {"Em'ly": 'Cailan', 'Trotwood': 'Le', 'ong': 'Remmy', 'Crewler': 'Tenzin', 'Copperfield.': 'Dossie'}}