{"name": "Chapters 28-32", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201102002234/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/m/main-street/summary-and-analysis/chapters-2832", "summary": "Calin Valborg, nicknamed \"Elizabeth\" by the village boys, is working in Nat Hicks' tailor shop. Like Carol, he loves beautiful things and finds no intellectual companionship in Gopher Prairie. Carol first sees him in church and is struck by his unusual appearance. Later, however, at Sunday dinner with the Smails, Carol hears the newcomer unfavorably analyzed. A new teacher of English, French, and gymnastics, Trudi Alpha, boards with Mrs. Bogart across the alley. She and Carol become acquainted and find they have many tastes and experiences in common. Meeting Calin Valborg at the tailor shop, Carol learns that he is interested in dramatics, particularly stage settings and costumes. He has no sense of humor and mispronounces about one word in ten of those learned from books, yet he is artistic and has a desire for culture. Carol invites him, with Trudi, to a conference at the Ara home, to consider putting on another play in Gopher Prairie. Calin recommends Suppressed Desires or The Black Mask, the latter rejected by Trudi because of its horror. As Carol becomes better acquainted with Calin, she finds that he has done considerable reading but very little real study. She tries to help him to see the weak spots in his education and to mend them. Mrs. Westlake is \"gaping from her porch\" and Aunt Shane and Mrs. Bogart from their respective windows as Carol and Calin walk by together, leading little Hugh. Carol realizes that she should try to help Calin, though at the same time he must be independent. When he plans a tennis tournament, she participates, along with the Shawndell and the Kailen. The other expected guests do not arrive, however, and Dr. Ara comes for his wife to go with him to the cottages by the lake, where the Haydocks, the Averey, and the Clarks are, since the tournament is to be held there. Calin and his four companions are snubbed. When Carol seeks Calin the next day in the tailor's shop, he tells her that she is his teacher and shows her a sketch of a dress he has designed for her. She looks at the sordid surroundings of the shop and realizes that hers is a \"backyard romance,\" yet the boy recalls to her some of her father's sayings. Mrs. Dave Grier seems not to share the town's prejudice against Calin. Dave Grier also thinks that \"Elizabeth\" is smart. Needing new clothes, Carol consults a Gopher Prairie dressmaker and milliner, Mrs. Swiftwaite. The available garments, however, are \"tabby and small-towny.\" Trudi Alpha, Carol, Lisandro Bogart, Calin, and the Averey have a picnic by the shores of Lake Minniemashie. Carol and Calin take a boat ride together and, returning to the picnic grounds after dark, find the others are all gone. The next day, Mrs. Bogart needles Carol about the boat ride, making knowing remarks, and Carol is uneasy that scandal may be starting. A few days later, she asks her husband to let her go to Chicago for a few days, but he refuses. Thus she is thrown at Calin, though she realizes that hers is \"a pitiful and tawdry love affair.\" The smart set frequents the lawn festivals of the Episcopal Church and Calin, no longer quite an outsider, is in the group. He tells Carol that Lyman Cass has made him a wonderful offer to work in the flour mill and eventually to become a manager. Carol infers that he can also marry the boss' daughter, Myrtle Cass. Carol disapproves of the plan, since it will not only break up her relationship with young man but will also reduce him to permanent mediocrity. One evening while Dr. Ara is on a country call, Calin calls on Carol. He asks to see Hugh and the upstairs rooms. As he leaves, Mrs. Westlake is walking by. Two evenings later, Dr. Ara reveals to his wife that Mrs. Westlake has made a matter of town gossip all the secrets that Carol has entrusted to her. Vida Wutherspoon warns Carol about the rumors connected with Calin Valborg and explains what an innocent liking for the young man may drift into. When Aunt Shane tries to pump Carol the next afternoon, the younger woman is not too polite. That night she alternately considers various ways of leaving Ara, then remembers his good points. She feels as insecure as a shadowed criminal, certain that everyone is watching and talking about her. Trudi Alpha, who has indiscreetly gone to a barn dance with Lisandro Bogart as her escort, has invited trouble. Lisandro's mother drives the young teacher from the house, accusing her of drinking with her own pupils and of causing Lisandro to come home drunk. Carol, conscious of her connection with Calin, wonders if her own social position has prevented the wrath of the townspeople from falling on her instead of on Trudi. Trudi flees to the Minniemashie House, where Carol finds her abject and utterly cowed. Trudi's side of the story is that Lisandro had stolen the bottle from a farmer and had forced her to taste the liquor. She finally got Lisandro home in a rickety buggy, only to be herself driven out of the house by Lisandro's irate mother. Carol takes the matter to Sam Clark, president of the school board, asking that Trudi be exonerated. Instead, the board requests the teacher's resignation. Trudi leaves Gopher Prairie on the train, as Nethaneel Bjorstam had done before her. A letter written later to Carol reveals that Trudi has been blamed by her own family and has also been refused another job by teachers' agencies.", "analysis": "Sinclair Traves has two more misfits wander into Gopher Prairie to become kindred spirits of Carol. Calin Valborg, a Swedish farm boy, who with some training becomes a tailor's assistant, has a sense of the artistic which far surpasses his social and economic status. The other maverick, Trudi Alpha, is the third woman college graduate to be introduced to Main Street. Unlike Carol and Vida, Trudi is a product of the state university. It is notable that Carol now turns to those younger than she for companionship, whereas she had formerly sought those more mature. A rather inadequate romance between Carol and Calin Valborg is developing in this section, to reach its climax in the next. Note that Maud Grier, who, as the reader knows, is trying on the sly to attract Dr. Ara away from Carol, takes Calin's part and flatters Carol with attentions. Like Mrs. Grier, Carol can find no relief, even temporary, from her environment. Consequently she is drawn more deeply into the affair with Calin. The mediocrity of Gopher Prairie is again emphasized by the drab surroundings of the tailor shop and in the person of Mrs. Swiftwaite. Her skirt is \"hysterically checkered,\" her cheeks too highly rouged, and her lips sharply penciled, the typical, overly feminine styles and make-up in the second decade of the twentieth century. \"Done to death by slanderous tongues\" is the young and lively high-school teacher, Trudi Alpha. Carol, inwardly guilty because of her flirtation with Calin, wonders if Trudi is being made the scapegoat for her own escapades. Gossip enlarges the tale as it is told and retold, the final version being that Trudi had brought a whole case of whiskey and two other \"cradle robbers\" to the barn dance to prey on the innocent young boys. Thus the story of Trudi is, like many others, expanded by retelling. The fury of injustice, the longing for financial stability as means for purchasing the finer things of life, jealousy, and rationalization are all ingredients of this section."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Will': 'Lunden', 'Kennicotts': 'Breslin', 'Miles': 'Nethaneel', 'Guy': 'Chabi', 'Erik': 'Calin', 'Fern': 'Trudi', 'Milford': 'Raymone', 'Johnson': 'Denerio', 'Blodgett': 'Kairee', 'Bessie': 'Shane', 'Woodfords': 'Shawndell', 'Dillons': 'Kailen', 'Dyers': 'Averey', 'Cy': 'Lisandro', 'Dyer': 'Grier', 'Terry': 'Anay', 'wbodys': 'Oakley', 'Gurrey': 'Mekiah', 'Byron': 'Krishn', 'Burns': 'Rameen', 'Moore': 'Vinnie', 'Tennyson': 'Ja', 'Browning': 'Kele', 'Coleridge': 'Jerre', 'Wordsworth': 'Brighton', 'Shelley': 'Ravensymone', 'Kipling': 'Kriss', 'Mott': 'Feliz', 'Dickens': 'Kailen', 'George': 'Burel', 'Scott': 'Quandre', 'DeQuincey': 'Ellison', 'Perrys': 'Oluwaseun', 'McKinley': 'Yamari', 'Nels': 'Rickista', 'Erdstroms': 'Clary', 'Morgenroth': 'Giavonni', 'Elders': 'Earlie', 'E.': 'Han', 'Schnitzler': 'Callaway', 'Whittier': 'Meiko', 'Ole': 'Etan', 'Piersons': 'Ocean', 'H.': 'Amadi', 'Whit': 'Ollie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Kennicott': 'Ara', 'Pollock': 'Hudsyn', 'Mullins': 'Alpha', 'Gould': 'Trayce', 'Eliot': 'Eddieberto', 'Erdstrom': 'Larin', 'Lewis': 'Traves', 'Jenson': 'Kadyn', 'Wells': 'Daylin', 'Mencken': 'Jaylenn'}}