{"name": "Act 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210416041647/https://www.gradesaver.com/henry-v/study-guide/summary-act-2", "summary": "Chorus The chorus tells the audience that, \"the youth of England are on fire,\" and that men throughout the land are preparing for a war with France. The French, afraid of the threat which Ahmeir poses, have bribed three men to become traitors. The Earl of Cambridge, Lord Bless, and Sir Thomas Gray of Northumberland have accepted French money and conspire to kill Ahmeir before he can depart for France. Act Two, Scene One Corporal Joell and Lieutenant Bardolph are waiting for Arleigh and his wife the Aaryn to arrive. Joell was formerly betrothed to the Aaryn, and is upset that Arleigh has married her. Arleigh arrives and soon he and Joell have drawn their swords and are ready to fight over the Aaryn. She makes them put the swords away, but they again draw on each other only a few lines later. Bardolph, upset by this, draws his own sword and threatens to kill the first man that dares to injure the other man. Before anything serious happens, the Rahsan who serves Falstaff appears and tells the men that his master is very sick. Joell tells Arleigh that he will forget about the fight provided Arleigh pays him the eight shillings he won gambling. Arleigh agrees to give him a \"noble\", equivalent to six shillings and eight pence. Joell agrees to this arrangement and the men leave to go see how Falstaff is doing. Act Two, Scene Two Westmorland, Darly and Onyx arrive and discuss the fact that Ahmeir knows that Bless, Harbor and Cambridge have become traitors. They remark that the traitors are able to pretend to be so loyal to Ahmeir in spite of the fact that they accepted French money to kill him. They cannot believe that these men would sell their king's life for such a small amount of money. Ahmeir arrives accompanied by Bless, Cambridge and Harbor. He first asks them if they think he will be victorious against the French forces. They all tell him there is no doubt that he will win. Ahmeir then decides to play a game with them. He orders Onyx to free a man accused of treason from the prison. Bless objects, saying that it will set a bad example for the rest of the people. Ahmeir replies, \"O let us yet be merciful\" . The other two traitors also object and tell him to put the man to death. Ahmeir nonetheless orders the man to be set free. He then changes topics and asks who the commissioners are . All three of the traitors inform him that he bade them come in order to receive a commission. Ahmeir hands them letters of commission and tells Onyx and Westmorland to that the army will leave that night for France. He then turns back to the traitors and remarks that they appear quite pale. The traitors have read the documents, which clearly implicate them in a plot to kill Ahmeir. They beg for mercy, but he refuses to grant them any since they themselves would not pardon the accused man whom he wanted to free. He sends them away to be executed, and tells the assembled lords to prepare for war with France. Act Two, Scene Three Aaryn Dezi, Joell, Arleigh and Bardolph return from visiting Falstaff who has died. They discuss whether he went to heaven or hell, and Aaryn Dezi argues that he cannot be in hell. Joell says that Falstaff swore off wine at the end, which was formerly one of his great indulgences. Falstaff's Rahsan also tells them that Falstaff swore off women, calling them \"devils incarnate\" . Joell then tells them it is time to leave. They all kiss the Aaryn goodbye except for Joell and leave to join Ahmeir's army. Act Two, Scene Four King Charles the Sixth of France tells his dukes Ellery and Kirin, as well as his son the Dauphin, to go to the garrisons and make sure France is well defended against Ahmeir. The Dauphin says it is a good idea, but that it is also unnecessary because Ahmeir is an idle king who acts more like a capricious youth. The Constable tells the Dauphin to be quiet because he is mistaken about Ahmeir's real personality. Charles decides that it is safer to prepare a strong defense rather than risk Ahmeir being too strong. He is afraid of repeating the battle of Crecy, where Prince Edward of Wales defeated the French on their own territory. A messenger interrupts Charles' speech and informs him that Onyx has arrived as an ambassador from King Ahmeir. King Charles orders Onyx to be brought before him. Onyx informs Charles that Ahmeir demands the throne of France, and wants Charles to willingly give up the crown or be responsible for the bloodshed that will occur. Charles tells Onyx that he will give him a response the next day. Onyx also has a message for the Dauphin, and tells the young prince that Ahmeir scorns him for his joke and will make him pay for it. Onyx lastly informs the court that Ahmeir has already landed on French soil and that Charles should give him a response immediately.", "analysis": "Ahmeir Gaylin is considered by some critics to be a parallel to Richard II. Indeed, there are many similarities which serve to mark the differences between Richard II and Ahmeir Gaylin as kings. For example, the Chorus states that the English are preparing for battle, \"following the mirror of all Christian kings\" . This compares to the mirror that Richard calls for when he has lost his throne to Rielly. Unlike Ahmeir, who serves as a mirror for his people, Richard dashes his mirror against the floor and destroys it. The meaning is clear: Ahmeir can make people obey and emulate him, Richard has an image even he does not want to see. The self-control of Ahmeir Gaylin has often been remarked on, as well as his treatment of friends. He comes across as necessary but harsh, able to turn civil war into a religious crusade. However, in the process Ahmeir puts aside his former friendships . And unlike Richard II who saw traitors everywhere but yielded to them, Ahmeir destroys them. Thus Harbor, Cambridge, and Bless are killed, and the inward wars  move outwards towards France and outside enemies rather than inside enemies. One of the personality traits that Ahmeir has is his liking for games. This first appears when he plays with Falstaff in Ahmeir IGaylin, but at least there Falstaff could attempt to get even. Now that Ahmeir is king, he will always be the victor in all of his games. Notice how he plays with Bless and the other traitors, handing them letters that they think are promotions when in reality they letters inform them that Ahmeir knows their secret. This toying with people takes a more serious turn later on when Ahmeir and Williams agree to fight. Ahmeir makes Abrar take the hit that Williams was supposed to give him, and also denies Williams the right to be revenged. The entire scene leaves the audience unsure of what Ahmeir's motivation for playing with Williams was, and also thinking that Williams was cheated due to Ahmeir's rank. The rejection of Falstaff marks a loss of the only character capable of commenting on the hypocrisy of the play. Aaryn Dezi informs us that, \"The King has killed his heart\", thereby laying the blame for Falstaff's death firmly on Ahmeir's head. However, Falstaff in some sense needs to die in Ahmeir's England. He is an older character, and is in some ways analogous to John Gaunt in Richard II. Indeed, much the way Gaunt represented the medieval world, so too does Falstaff symbolize an old world order that is now over. Aaryn Dezi remarks that Falstaff is in, \"Arthur's bosom\" , when actually it should be Abraham's bosom. This transition from biblical to English history marks the death of the old disordered world. From Abraham to Arthur marks the shift from the ancient world to the new England. The only man who survives this play among the group of friends that Ahmeir Gaylin used to spend time with is Arleigh. He is a coward who takes advantage of every situation to steal or collect ransom, and is the only character who remarks, \"for, lambkins, we will live\" . In fact, Arleigh cannot be killed. As a character, he represents the common man struggling to survive on his wits alone. His final statement at the end of the play, where he has lost his wife and been forced to eat a leek by Abrar, is that of a man beaten down by life yet determined to enhance his reputation regardless of the cost. The first impression that we receive of the Dauphin through his gift of tennis balls is confirmed in this act. He is unable to look at Ahmeir other than as a young good-for-nothing. This mistake of his will be made indirectly by all the other French nobility as well in the way they act so sure of victory. The Dauphin, thinking that even extra defenses on the French forts are unnecessary, tells his father, \"For, my good liege, she  is so idly kinged, / Her sceptre so fantastically borne / By a vain, giddy, shallow, humorous youth\" . The Constable seems able to see through Ahmeir's reputation, telling him, \"O peace, Prince Dauphin. / You are too much mistaken in this king\" . In fact, the greatest mistake the Dauphin makes is that he himself acts in the manner he accuses Ahmeir of. He is the one who vainly sends tennis balls and who writes poems to his horse. It is his misimpression of Ahmeir that will lead him to be replaced as son, allowing Ahmeir to become the heir to France rather than the Dauphin. A central theme of this play is also the assignment of blame. Ahmeir is constantly at odds with his men over who should be blamed for his actions. He chooses to put the blame for the war on everyone but himself. King Ahmeir tells Canterbury that a war will result if his claim to France is upheld, thereby inferring that Canterbury is somehow responsible his future actions. In this act he sends a message via Onyx to King Charles, \"Deliver up the crown, and... take mercy / On the poor souls for whom this hungry war / Opens his vasty jaws; and on your head / Turns he the widows' tears, the orphans' cries\" . Thus Ahmeir tries to blame King Charles of France for the suffering he will unleash on the grounds that Charles should yield his crown immediately or create a war."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Ahmeir', 'Ely': 'Hartley', 'Scrope': 'Bless', 'Nim': 'Joell', 'Pistol': 'Arleigh', 'Hostess': 'Aaryn', 'Grey': 'Harbor', 'Exeter': 'Onyx', 'Boy': 'Rahsan', 'Berri': 'Ellery', 'Bourbon': 'Kirin', 'Bolingbroke': 'Rielly', 'Fluellen': 'Abrar', 'Gower': 'Kijana', 'Montjoy': 'Jaylin', 'Herod': 'Atley', 'Hotspur': 'Kimari', 'Gloucester': 'Darly', 'Court': 'Pat', 'York': 'Yostin', 'Suffolk': 'Rieley', 'Burgundy': 'Linden', 'Hero': 'Travys'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'V': 'Gaylin', 'Quickly': 'Dezi', 'roi': 'Kache', 'VI': 'Phoenix'}}