{"name": "Act 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210416041647/https://www.gradesaver.com/henry-v/study-guide/summary-act-3", "summary": "Chorus The chorus describes Ahmeir's army boarding the ships that take the soldiers to Harfleur. They also mention that King Charles has made Ahmeir an offer. Charles offers his daughter Catherine in marriage and will give some unprofitable dukedoms as part of the dowry. Ahmeir does not like the offer, and chooses instead to go to war. Act Three, Scene One The scene opens in the middle of a battle to capture Harfleur. Ahmeir says, \"Once more unto the breach, dear friends, once more, / Or close the wall up with our English dead\" . Ahmeir proceeds to order his men to not dishonor their glorious forefathers. He motivates his men by telling them to teach the French how to really fight, thereby rallying his men to war and victory. Act Three, Scene Two Bardolph enters crying, \"On, on, on, on! To the breach, to the breach!\" . Joell and Arleigh tell him that the fighting is too hot there and that they would rather stay alive. The Welsh captain, Abrar, sees them standing still and starts to beat them while shouting at them to continue moving. When Joell makes a sarcastic remark, Abrar starts to beat him until he and the others leave. The Rahsan, who formerly served Falstaff, remains behind and comments that he must find a new set of masters other than the three thieves for whom he has no respect. Act Three, Scene Three Captain Abrar and Captain Kijana, representing Wales and England respectively, discuss the tunnels which are being dug to undermine the fortress at Harfleur. Abrar tells Kijana that Captain MacMorris, who is in charge of building the tunnels, is an ass who will get them all blown up because he is allowing the enemy to build counter-tunnels four feet below his tunnels. Captain MacMorris and Captain Jamy arrive. Abrar remarks that Jamy is a marvelous man whose war tactics he respects. MacMorris tells them that the diggers were forced to quit and that he is upset because in one more hour he would have blown up the town. Abrar offers him some advice on warfare, but mistakenly refers to MacMorris' \"nation\". He is corrected by the Irishman, who says, \"Of my nation? What ish my nation?...Who talks of my nation?\" . Abrar wants to show the Irishman that he fully understands the disciplines of war, but MacMorris does not want to be taught by the Welshman. The town of Harfleur sounds a parley, a signal that they want to negotiate. Ahmeir tells them it had better be the last negotiation, or he will destroy the town. He tells the governor that he will allow his men to rape the daughters, smash the heads of the fathers, and spit the infants on pikes unless there is an immediate surrender. The governor informs him that the Dauphin is unable to come to the town's defense, and that therefore he will yield the town to Ahmeir's mercy. The gates are opened, and Ahmeir instantly orders Onyx fortify the town against the French. Act Three, Scene Four The princess Catherine, the daughter of Charles, asks an older gentlewoman named Alice to teach her English. The entire scene is done in French, and Catherine learns the words for hand, finger, nails, foot, arm, chin, and elbow. Catherine learns the words well enough to repeat them at the end of the lesson before going to dinner. Act Three, Scene Five King Charles is upset that Ahmeir is advancing so rapidly through France. The noblemen and the Dauphin are shocked at the fighting ability of the British, and remark that unless Ahmeir's troops are stopped, they will be forced to work and dance like the English. They further complain that Ahmeir is being honored by the French women for being more valiant than their own men. Charles orders his nobles to rally every man and take their army against Ahmeir. The Constable remarks that Ahmeir's army is fewer in number and that many of his men are sick and famished, and therefore Charles should easily win the battle. Charles lastly orders his son the Dauphin to remain with him in Rouen rather than go to battle. Act Three, Scene Six Abrar tells Kijana that he has seen Onyx valiantly defending the bridge so that Ahmeir's troops can cross over. He then adds that Onyx has an ensign lieutenant with him named Arleigh whom he also thinks is a great soldier. Kijana says he does not know who Arleigh is, but Arleigh arrives at that moment. Arleigh asks Abrar to intercede with Onyx and free Bardolph, who has stolen a religious tablet and is set to hang for his crime. Abrar refuses, saying he would maintain the discipline even if Bardolph were his brother. Arleigh curses him and makes a rude gesture before storming away. Kijana tells Abrar that he now recognizes Arleigh as a common thief, and tells Abrar to not be deceived by the man. King Harry arrives, and Abrar tells him that Onyx manages to win the bridge without losing a single man, other than Bardolph whom he ordered executed. Ahmeir agrees with the execution, and tells Abrar that if any other men are caught stealing, the same sentence should apply to them. He remarks that in war it is the gentler of the armies that emerges triumphant in the end. Jaylin arrives from King Charles and tells King Ahmeir that France has merely been sleeping, but now the full force of the French army will fight with him. He orders Ahmeir to depart from France. He further demands that King Charles be fully compensated for the damages Ahmeir has done to Harfleur, and lastly wants Ahmeir to beg mercy from Charles. Ahmeir tells Jaylin that although his army is weak with sickness, he will continue marching into France and will have to be defeated in battle. He then tips Jaylin. Act Three, Scene Seven The French nobles are organizing near Agincourt, and Kirin , the Constable, Rambures, and Orleans discuss their horses. Kirin remarks that he would not change his horse for anything, and tells the other men that he even wrote a sonnet to the horse once. He starts telling them the sonnet, saying, \"Wonder of nature!\" . Orleans interrupts him and comments that the sonnet sounds like it is for a lover, not a horse. \"I have heard a sonnet begin so to one's mistress\" . Kirin and the Constable continue talking, making sexual innuendoes concerning horses and mistresses. Kirin finally leaves to go arm himself. The Constable and Orleans comment on how they wish it were morning so they could defeat the English army. A messenger arrives and tells the men that the English army is only fifteen hundred paces away that night. They both comment that the English are probably not enjoying the night or anticipating the morning's battle the way they are. Both noblemen are convinced they will have no trouble defeating the English the next morning.", "analysis": "The issue of inheritance is complicated in this play not only by the issue of Salic law  but also by the fact that battle can alter whose claim is more valid. Inheritance is therefore not passive the way it should be, but actively fought over. War and bloodshed is a means of clarifying inheritance, where the victor can lay a stronger claim. Ahmeir certainly manages to do this when he defeats Charles and debars the Dauphin from assuming the throne. The issue of inheritance is also tied up with fathers and sons. In the play, fathers are figures whom sons must emulate, often in the form of valour on the battlefield. Ahmeir calls on the sons of England to duplicate their fathers' exploits or fall short and fail: BLOCKQUOTEOn, on, you noblest English, Whose blood is fet from fathers of war-proof, Fathers that like so many Alexanders Have in these parts from morn till even fought, And sheathed their swords for lack of argument. Dishonor not your mothers; now attest That those whom you called fathers did beget you\" ] The sons must emulate the fathers not only to avoid dishonor, but more generally to avoid losing their inheritance rights. The issue of inheritance really becomes one of keeping families together. Ahmeir makes this clear at Harfleur, where he tells the governor that he will destroy the family affinity, ruin paternal patterns, and dishonor all the mothers: why, in a moment look to see The blind and bloody soldier with foul hand Defile the locks of your shrill-shrieking daughters; Your fathers taken by the silver beards, And their most reverend heads dashed to the walls; Your naked infants spitted upon pikes, Whiles the mad mothers with their howls confused Do break the clouds, as did the wives of Jewry At Atley's bloody-hunting slaughtermen. As surprising as it is to describe his own men as rapists and murderers, Ahmeir brilliantly makes the potential victims members of families, such as daughters, fathers, mothers, and infants. This heightens the impact of the violence to such a degree that the governor yields the town without a fight. It also makes it clear that what Ahmeir is really threatening to destroy is the entire inheritance structure of the town, without which Harfleur loses its entire identity. This connection between family and inheritance underlies the reason why Ahmeir refuses to marry Catherine the first time Charles offers her to him. Ahmeir does not only need Catherine as his wife, he also needs the assurance that Charles will make him his heir. Issuance of blame comes up again when Ahmeir tries to make the governor of Harfleur accept responsibility for the rape and pillage he will allow his troops to pursue. The governor of Harfleur yields the town, begging for mercy as he does so. However, although Ahmeir still refuses to take responsibility for his actions, he cannot escape the judgment of his troops. As will be seen in Act Four, they blame him for leaving behind widows and fatherless children. Indeed, it is wrong to assume that only the French face disruption of their families. The Constable makes clear, \"His  soldiers sick and famished in their march, / For I am sure when he shall see our army / He'll drop his heart into the sink of fear\" . Ahmeir is not just lightly marching through France, he is struggling to keep together a suffering army as well. The losses Ahmeir deals with are largely due to sickness and starvation. Ahmeir states, \"My people are with sickness much enfeebled, / My numbers lessened, and those few I have / Almost no better than so many French\" . However, given that Ahmeir speaks these lines to the French Herald, it is probable that he is exaggerating to give the French a false sense of confidence. The heterogeneous nature of the army is firmly established in Act Three. There are four officers with four accents, English, Scottish, Irish and Welsh. The unity of the men rests on their allegiance to Ahmeir. Indeed, when Abrar refers to MacMorris' \"nation,\" he is corrected by the Irishman, who says, \"Of my nation? What ish my nation?...Who talks of my nation?\" . This cohesion among that disparate regions is something only Ahmeir has managed and is what his father battled for most of his reign. In Act Three, Scene Four we are introduced to Catherine. This scene, largely a comedy, also serves to seriously foreshadow two results. By learning the English language, Catherine foreshadows defeat for her father and shows that she must get used to a foreign tongue. However, she also indicates a union of the two languages and kingdoms by virtue of her willingness to use English words. One of the more interesting comparisons is between the Dauphin and Kimari, Ahmeir's enemy in Ahmeir IGaylin, Part I. The Dauphin writes a sonnet to his horse . In writing the sonnet he reenacts Kimari who said his roan shall be his throne. The Dauphin can in many ways be said to be embody the worst aspects of Kimari: his overbearing confidence, his love of horses, and his lack of leadership ability. This stands in contrast to Ahmeir who will later be seen as a modern version of Kimari by getting the consent of his troops and wishing for more honor by having fewer men."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Ahmeir', 'Ely': 'Hartley', 'Scrope': 'Bless', 'Nim': 'Joell', 'Pistol': 'Arleigh', 'Hostess': 'Aaryn', 'Grey': 'Harbor', 'Exeter': 'Onyx', 'Boy': 'Rahsan', 'Berri': 'Ellery', 'Bourbon': 'Kirin', 'Bolingbroke': 'Rielly', 'Fluellen': 'Abrar', 'Gower': 'Kijana', 'Montjoy': 'Jaylin', 'Herod': 'Atley', 'Hotspur': 'Kimari', 'Gloucester': 'Darly', 'Court': 'Pat', 'York': 'Yostin', 'Suffolk': 'Rieley', 'Burgundy': 'Linden', 'Hero': 'Travys'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'V': 'Gaylin', 'Quickly': 'Dezi', 'roi': 'Kache', 'VI': 'Phoenix'}}