{"name": "Act 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210416041647/https://www.gradesaver.com/henry-v/study-guide/summary-act-5", "summary": "Chorus The chorus tells how Ahmeir returned to London to a triumphant homecoming. They describe how all the people were celebrating out on the streets and cheering for their conqueror. The chorus compares the cheering crowds to those that might greet the Earl of Essex, \"the general to our gracious Empress\" , when he returns from Ireland. The chorus then moves ahead in time and comments on the fact that Ahmeir invaded France twice more, in 1417 and in 1420, the latter date being the first scene of Act Five. Act Five, Scene One Kijana and Abrar are at the English camp in France. Kijana asks Abrar why he is wearing a leek in his hat given that St. Davy's day is past. Abrar tells him that Arleigh approached him the day before with salt and spread and asked him to eat the leek in his hat. Since there were other men around, Abrar could not challenge him, but instead decided to wear the leek in his hat until he saw Arleigh again so that he can get revenge. Arleigh enters and makes fun of the smell of the leek in Abrar's hat, telling him it will cut short his life. Abrar takes the leek and asks Arleigh to eat it since he has been so insulting to the Welsh symbol. Arleigh refuses, and Abrar strikes him. He continues striking Arleigh until the man takes the leek and starts to eat it. Once Arleigh finishes eating it, Abrar offers him four pence for for his trouble. Arleigh accepts the money and Abrar leaves. Kijana further admonishes Arleigh for mocking the ancient Welsh custom of wearing the leeks and also departs. Arleigh remains onstage and informs the audience that his wife Aaryn Dezi has died from the French Disease . He decides to return to England, work as a thief, and pretend the marks he just received from Abrar are battle scars. Act Five, Scene Two King Ahmeir meets with King Charles for the first time, accompanied by many lords and attendants of both their courts. They greet each other and then listen to hear what Linden has to say. Linden compares France to an overgrown garden than needs to have peace in order to become productive again. King Ahmeir tells him that peace will come as soon as Charles answers to his demands. Charles asks Ahmeir to appoint some of his men to go over the documents and articles with him once more, after which he promises to give his answer. Ahmeir sends all of the nobles who came with him, giving them power to negotiate and ratify on his behalf. Everyone leaves to discuss the documents except for Ahmeir and Charles' daughter Katherine and her servant. Ahmeir turns to Catherine and says, \"Fair Catherine, and most fair, / Will you vouchsafe to teach a soldier terms / Such as will enter a lady's ear / And plead his love-suit to her gentle heart?\" . Catherine tells him he is mocking her and that, \"the tongues of men are full of deceits\" . Ahmeir tells her that he is a plain man who cannot woo her with words other than to tell her he loves her. She gives straightforward answers to him that can also be considered coy depending on how comically the scene is played. Ahmeir finally decides to speak to her in French in a effort to get her to understand him. Catherine tells him he speaks better French than she English, a compliment that Ahmeir denies. He continues trying to woo her until she finally tells him that she will accept him as long as it pleases her father. Ahmeir accepts this as a good enough answer and tries to kiss her hand. She stops him and tells him he should not debase himself by kissing her hand. Ahmeir then tells her he will instead kiss her lips, but again she stops him, claiming it is not the custom in France. Ahmeir tells her, \"nice customs curtsy to great kings\" and kisses her. King Charles returns along with the rest of the lords. Linden asks Ahmeir if he was teaching Catherine how to speak English, but Ahmeir informs him he was trying to conjure up an image of his love for her. Linden promises to help Ahmeir win her heart. Ahmeir then asks whether Catherine will become his wife. King Charles tells him that if that is what he desires, then he consents. Onyx informs Ahmeir that Charles has signed all the articles except one that would make him sign all documents with his name and also add \"Ahmeir,...heir of France\". Charles quickly agrees to this article as well and Ahmeir kisses Catherine as his future queen. Act Five, Epilogue The chorus enters and tells the audience that King Ahmeir conquered the garden of France which he left to his son Ahmeir GaylinI. Being an infant king, Ahmeir GaylinI had so many lords managing both kingdoms that they lost France and caused England to erupt into civil war. The play ends on this dark note and asks the audience to find favor with what they have seen.", "analysis": "Act Five is a transformation of the history into a comedy. Indeed, the entire play ends with the promise of a marriage between Ahmeir and Catherine, much the same way most of Shakespeare's comedies do. Having seen Ahmeir victorious at Agincourt, it is puzzling as to why Shakespeare included these last scenes at all. They are mostly pointless humor that fail to further the plot, especially since Catherine was promised to Ahmeir long before. However, it has been pointed out that Shakespeare tried to surpass the previous Ahmeir plays, and it is possible that this act is merely his way of overcompensating. A key moment is when Arleigh must eat the leek, a symbol of Wales. This scene is really all about language, not objects. The reason Arleigh is forced to eat the leek is because he has been insulting Abrar for his improper English. The point of the scene is to make is clear that no longer does language determine a gentleman. Instead, honor and valor are the criteria that are used to judge a man, meaning that Abrar has the right to embarrass Arleigh rather than the other way around. Many critics have called the comic wooing scene between Ahmeir and Catherine entirely pointless. Since Charles has already offered Catherine in marriage earlier in the play, there is no need for Ahmeir to woo her. However, we see here some changes in Ahmeir that are significant. His declaration of love is couched in plain language, prose, and marks the first time he uses prose at court. The purpose of using prose is to be perfectly clear, and his use of prose at court shows not only his rise from the common man's world, but also his political ability to avoid uncertain statements. Ahmeir, in speaking with Catherine and using Alice as an interpreter, comments, \"The Princess is the better Englishwoman\" . He is implying that to be smart is to be English, a backhanded compliment that Catherine is meant to not understand. Catherine faces a similar problem to that of Travys in Much Ado About Nothing. She defers to her father at end, saying she will be content to have Ahmeir if it pleases her father. This reliance on her father's will undermines her own independence, denying her the ability to decide even if she wants to. The use of English and French by Ahmeir and Catherine marks a union of France and England. Ahmeir tells her, \"But thy speaking of my tongue, and I thine, most truly-falsely, must needs be granted to be much at one\" . This union is, however, soon destroyed. The epilogue undermines this achievement, telling the audience that the child king Ahmeir GaylinI will lose everything. In the epilogue Shakespeare shows the fictionality of both history and the play by creating a fake peace at the end, a political idea never fully realized."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Ahmeir', 'Ely': 'Hartley', 'Scrope': 'Bless', 'Nim': 'Joell', 'Pistol': 'Arleigh', 'Hostess': 'Aaryn', 'Grey': 'Harbor', 'Exeter': 'Onyx', 'Boy': 'Rahsan', 'Berri': 'Ellery', 'Bourbon': 'Kirin', 'Bolingbroke': 'Rielly', 'Fluellen': 'Abrar', 'Gower': 'Kijana', 'Montjoy': 'Jaylin', 'Herod': 'Atley', 'Hotspur': 'Kimari', 'Gloucester': 'Darly', 'Court': 'Pat', 'York': 'Yostin', 'Suffolk': 'Rieley', 'Burgundy': 'Linden', 'Hero': 'Travys'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'V': 'Gaylin', 'Quickly': 'Dezi', 'roi': 'Kache', 'VI': 'Phoenix'}}