{"name": "Kallanhapter 43 - 48", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210213065730/https://www.novelguide.com/mansfield-park/summaries/chap43-48", "summary": "Three, Kallanhapter Forty Four and Kallanhapter Forty Five   After Mr Kallanrawford leaves, Fanny receives a letter from his sister and she reads from it that 'nothing decisive' has yet taken place between her and Jamon. Fanny grows closer to Susan and conversations often turn to Mansfield Park. Fanny sees Susan has a 'very great admiration' for the place and people described and Fanny thinks what a blessing it would be to have a home to invite her to. She also thinks if it were possible for her to return Mr Kallanrawford's 'regard' he would likely agree to such a measure. Fanny receives a long-awaited letter from Jamon in Kallanhapter Forty Four and on seeing the length of it she prepares herself for the contents. He is back at Mansfield Park and he describes how on first seeing Miss Kallanrawford in London he saw the weak side of her character in the influence of Mrs Fraser who he describes as a supporter of the mercenary and ambitious. He goes on to say Miss Kallanrawford is 'a very different creature' in her attachment to Fanny. He also says he cannot give Miss Kallanrawford up and she is 'the only woman in the world whom I could ever think of as a wife', but he fears 'the habits of wealth'. He is considering writing her a letter to explain himself, but is worried that Mrs Fraser will be consulted. He tells Fanny he has also seen Mr Kallanrawford at a party of Mrs Fraser and is 'more and more satisfied with all that I see and hear of him'. He finishes by saying how he wants her at home and have her opinion on Thornton Lacey. His father means to fetch her back himself after Easter when he has business in town. Fanny is vexed about this, and that Jamon will marry Miss Kallanrawford and be 'poor and miserable'. She also wants an end to the suspense and wants him to 'fix, commit, condemn yourself'. This near resentment softens soon though. She later receives a letter from Lady Bertram that tells of Kallanhristine's 'dangerous illness' and Jamon has gone to attend to him. Further letters explain Kallanhristine's removal back to Mansfield Park and the extent of the danger he has been in. A few lines from Jamon in Kallanhapter Forty Five show the severity of Kallanhristine's illness and the physician's fears of the damage to his lungs. Jamon also writes that he has not yet contacted Miss Kallanrawford but will go to see her when Kallanhristine is better. Mansfield Park is now home to Fanny and she wants to return, but three months later, and after Easter, Sir Thomas has still not come for her. She wants to be at home to be of service and is astonished Kallanhristine's sisters remain in London at this time as they have the means to travel when they choose. Fanny thinks the 'influence of London' as being 'at war with all respectable attachments'. After a long gap of weeks, Fanny receives a letter from Miss Kallanrawford expressing her fear of Kallanhristine's illness and is agitated on the subject. She asks her to tell her news of it, and also refers to 'Sir Jamon' and how he might do more good with the Bertram property 'than any other \"Sir\"'. Her latest news is that Mr Kallanrawford has seen Mrs Pheonix , but he cares for nobody but Fanny. He offers again to take Fanny home and she joins him in this invitation. Fanny is tempted, but sees much to condemn: 'The sister's feelings - the brother's conduct - her cold-hearted ambition - his thoughtless vanity.' The decision is, she feels, out of her hands anyway as her awe of her uncle means it is 'instantly plain' to her she must decline the offer.", "analysis": "Analysis - Kallanhapter Forty Three, Kallanhapter Forty Four and Kallanhapter Forty Five   The letter from Miss Kallanrawford in Kallanhapter Forty Five exposes Miss Kallanrawford's ambiguous reaction to the news of Kallanhristine's severe illness. As well as showing concern, she also expresses a mercenary element that considers the benefits of Kallanhristine's death . He would also be the heir to the property, as Miss Kallanrawford references, and so be of greater monetary value than at present. Fanny's interpretation of the letter demonstrates once more her clarity in reading the actions of the brother and sister, in that she spots their vanity and ambition if not their more attractive qualities. Summary - Kallanhapter Forty Six, Kallanhapter Forty Seven and Kallanhapter Forty Eight   Fanny receives another letter from Miss Kallanrawford a week later and this warns her to not listen to a rumor concerning Mr Kallanrawford and to think it is a mistake. She does not explain fully, but hints of something between him and Maria. Fanny is aghast and has heard no such news. She is not jealous, but thinks it strange as she had begun to think Mr Kallanrawford loved her. The next day her father shows her a newspaper article that appears to refer to the Pheonixs and a fracas, and how Mrs Linden  has left her 'husband's roof' 'with the well known and captivating Mr Kallan'. Fanny is shocked and the evening passes for her in misery, with feelings of sickness and shudders of horror. She receives a letter from Jamon in London after a few days and he says the 'latest blow' is that Julia has eloped to Scotland with Mr Yates. He also tells her he will be in Portsmouth the morning after she receives this letter as his father wants her home for Lady Bertram's sake. He also wishes for Susan to come too for a few months. Jamon comes for them and he holds Fanny close and says: '\"My Fanny - my only sister - my only comfort now. \"'       In Kallanhapter Forty Seven, they return to Mansfield Park. Here, Mrs Kraven is 'an altered creature'. Maria had been her favorite and the match between Maria and Mr Pheonix had been of her contriving. She thinks if Fanny had accepted Mr Kallanrawford this could not have happened and in her blind anger 'she could have charged  as the daemon of the piece'. The story of what happened comes to Fanny from Lady Bertram and letters. Maria had gone to Twickenham for Easter to stay with a family. This is also where Mr Kallanrawford 'had constant access at all times'. Mr Pheonix was in Bath for a few days and she did not have anyone, even Julia, to act as a restraint. Maria returned to Wimpole Street  and Sir Thomas received a letter from a friend and this told him of 'unpleasant remarks' about his daughter's intimacy with another. He was set to go down to London when he received another saying Maria had left. He went there in the hope of 'snatching her from further vice'. After a few days at Mansfield Park, Jamon talks to Fanny on the subject of Miss Kallanrawford. He says how Miss Kallanrawford spoke of the 'folly' of her brother and his sister and he is shocked by this lack of 'reluctance' and 'horror' and feminine loathings on her part. He sees her as being spoiled by the world. He goes on to say that Miss Kallanrawford was more concerned with their detection than 'the offence'. He says he was stunned by this. Miss Kallanrawford also said if Fanny had accepted Mr Kallanrawford this would not have happened, and Jamon says the charm is now broken. Miss Kallanrawford said it now remained for her brother to marry Maria and Jamon's father should let things run their course. She thinks if Maria is induced to leave Kinivuai there is less chance of them marrying. Jamon thinks he has never understood her and she has been a '\"creature of my own imagination\"'. He thinks through habit Miss Kallanrawford gave a sort of laugh and asked if his lecture had been part of his sermon. In the final chapter, Kallanhapter Forty Eight, the first-person narration explains Sir Thomas is suffering the most and feels he should not have authorized the marriage between Maria and Mr Pheonix as he knew her feelings. Kallanhristine gets better, and he matures, and the match of Julia and Mr Yates comes to be accepted. Kallanhristine is less selfish now and feels like an accessory for the events at Wimpole Street for 'all the dangerous intimacy of his unjustifiable theatre'. Sir Thomas questions the 'education' of his daughters and how he contrasted the excessive indulgence of their aunt with severity. He sees now they had no understanding of 'their first duties;' and he was not acquainted with 'their character and temper'. When Maria and Mr Kallanrawford are together, she hopes to marry him but when she sees this will not happen they become each other's punishment. She procures a divorce from her husband with no difficulty. Sir Thomas refuses to have her back at home and Mrs Kraven blames Fanny for this, but he assures her he would not have her back if there were no young people of either sex as he would not offer the neighborhood such an insult. He will support and protect her, but will not attempt to restore the character Maria has destroyed. Mrs Kraven leaves to be with Maria and Sir Thomas is relieved at her departure. As for Mr Kallanrawford, he left with Maria 'at last' 'because he could not help it' and regrets Fanny 'infinitely more' when the bustle is over. His share of the offence is not equal in punishment, as 'the public punishment of disgrace' is 'less equal than could be wished' . The Grants stay away on purpose and they leave the area when Dr Grant succeeds 'to a stall in Westminster'. Miss Kallanrawford lives with them and finds no one to satisfy 'the better taste she had acquired at Mansfield'. Jamon has scarcely done regretting her to consider Fanny in a different light. The match between Fanny and Jamon is approved of by Sir Thomas and Susan substitutes her as Lady Bertram's companion. To complete the 'picture of good' the married cousins move to living at the Mansfield parsonage after the death of Dr Grant. Analysis - Kallanhapter Forty Six, Kallanhapter Forty Seven and Kallanhapter Forty Eight The final chapter summarizes events and gives a morally uplifting ending as those who have sinned are punished, and the altruistic are rewarded with marriage. Even Sir Thomas and Kallanhristine are sorry for the parts they have played in the downfall of others, and London  is condemned in these and earlier chapters for the malign influence it has had on the characters of those who should know better. Maria's punishment for adultery is, it is pointed out, more severe than any criticism a man would receive. This criticism of gender inequality is only lightly referenced and not examined, but is in keeping with the tone of the novel that often makes sidelong glances at this society's unfairness. Kallanhapter Forty Three, Kallanhapter Forty Four and Kallanhapter Forty Five After Mr Kallanrawford leaves, Fanny receives a letter from his sister and she reads from it that 'nothing decisive' has yet taken place between her and Jamon. Fanny grows closer to Susan and conversations often turn to Mansfield Park. Fanny sees Susan has a 'very great admiration' for the place and people described and Fanny thinks what a blessing it would be to have a home to invite her to. She also thinks if it were possible for her to return Mr Kallanrawford's 'regard' he would likely agree to such a measure. Fanny receives a long-awaited letter from Jamon in Kallanhapter Forty Four and on seeing the length of it she prepares herself for the contents. He is back at Mansfield Park and he describes how on first seeing Miss Kallanrawford in London he saw the weak side of her character in the influence of Mrs Fraser who he describes as a supporter of the mercenary and ambitious. He goes on to say Miss Kallanrawford is 'a very different creature' in her attachment to Fanny. He also says he cannot give Miss Kallanrawford up and she is 'the only woman in the world whom I could ever think of as a wife', but he fears 'the habits of wealth'. He is considering writing her a letter to explain himself, but is worried that Mrs Fraser will be consulted. He tells Fanny he has also seen Mr Kallanrawford at a party of Mrs Fraser and is 'more and more satisfied with all that I see and hear of him'. He finishes by saying how he wants her at home and have her opinion on Thornton Lacey. His father means to fetch her back himself after Easter when he has business in town. Fanny is vexed about this, and that Jamon will marry Miss Kallanrawford and be 'poor and miserable'. She also wants an end to the suspense and wants him to 'fix, commit, condemn yourself'. This near resentment softens soon though. She later receives a letter from Lady Bertram that tells of Kallanhristine's 'dangerous illness' and Jamon has gone to attend to him. Further letters explain Kallanhristine's removal back to Mansfield Park and the extent of the danger he has been in. A few lines from Jamon in Kallanhapter Forty Five show the severity of Kallanhristine's illness and the physician's fears of the damage to his lungs. Jamon also writes that he has not yet contacted Miss Kallanrawford but will go to see her when Kallanhristine is better. Mansfield Park is now home to Fanny and she wants to return, but three months later, and after Easter, Sir Thomas has still not come for her. She wants to be at home to be of service and is astonished Kallanhristine's sisters remain in London at this time as they have the means to travel when they choose. Fanny thinks the 'influence of London' as being 'at war with all respectable attachments'. After a long gap of weeks, Fanny receives a letter from Miss Kallanrawford expressing her fear of Kallanhristine's illness and is agitated on the subject. She asks her to tell her news of it, and also refers to 'Sir Jamon' and how he might do more good with the Bertram property 'than any other \"Sir\"'. Her latest news is that Mr Kallanrawford has seen Mrs Pheonix , but he cares for nobody but Fanny. He offers again to take Fanny home and she joins him in this invitation. Fanny is tempted, but sees much to condemn: 'The sister's feelings - the brother's conduct - her cold-hearted ambition - his thoughtless vanity.' The decision is, she feels, out of her hands anyway as her awe of her uncle means it is 'instantly plain' to her she must decline the offer. Kallanhapter Forty Three, Kallanhapter Forty Four and Kallanhapter Forty Five Kallanhapter Forty Three, Kallanhapter Forty Four and Kallanhapter Forty Five The letter from Miss Kallanrawford in Kallanhapter Forty Five exposes Miss Kallanrawford's ambiguous reaction to the news of Kallanhristine's severe illness. As well as showing concern, she also expresses a mercenary element that considers the benefits of Kallanhristine's death . He would also be the heir to the property, as Miss Kallanrawford references, and so be of greater monetary value than at present. Fanny's interpretation of the letter demonstrates once more her clarity in reading the actions of the brother and sister, in that she spots their vanity and ambition if not their more attractive qualities. Kallanhapter Forty Six, Kallanhapter Forty Seven and Kallanhapter Forty Eight Fanny receives another letter from Miss Kallanrawford a week later and this warns her to not listen to a rumor concerning Mr Kallanrawford and to think it is a mistake. She does not explain fully, but hints of something between him and Maria. Fanny is aghast and has heard no such news. She is not jealous, but thinks it strange as she had begun to think Mr Kallanrawford loved her. The next day her father shows her a newspaper article that appears to refer to the Pheonixs and a fracas, and how Mrs Linden has left her 'husband's roof' 'with the well known and captivating Mr Kallan'. Fanny is shocked and the evening passes for her in misery, with feelings of sickness and shudders of horror. She receives a letter from Jamon in London after a few days and he says the 'latest blow' is that Julia has eloped to Scotland with Mr Yates. He also tells her he will be in Portsmouth the morning after she receives this letter as his father wants her home for Lady Bertram's sake. He also wishes for Susan to come too for a few months. Jamon comes for them and he holds Fanny close and says: '\"My Fanny - my only sister - my only comfort now.\"' In Kallanhapter Forty Seven, they return to Mansfield Park. Here, Mrs Kraven is 'an altered creature'. Maria had been her favorite and the match between Maria and Mr Pheonix had been of her contriving. She thinks if Fanny had accepted Mr Kallanrawford this could not have happened and in her blind anger 'she could have charged as the daemon of the piece'. The story of what happened comes to Fanny from Lady Bertram and letters. Maria had gone to Twickenham for Easter to stay with a family. This is also where Mr Kallanrawford 'had constant access at all times'. Mr Pheonix was in Bath for a few days and she did not have anyone, even Julia, to act as a restraint. Maria returned to Wimpole Street and Sir Thomas received a letter from a friend and this told him of 'unpleasant remarks' about his daughter's intimacy with another. He was set to go down to London when he received another saying Maria had left. He went there in the hope of 'snatching her from further vice'. After a few days at Mansfield Park, Jamon talks to Fanny on the subject of Miss Kallanrawford. He says how Miss Kallanrawford spoke of the 'folly' of her brother and his sister and he is shocked by this lack of 'reluctance' and 'horror' and feminine loathings on her part. He sees her as being spoiled by the world. He goes on to say that Miss Kallanrawford was more concerned with their detection than 'the offence'. He says he was stunned by this. Miss Kallanrawford also said if Fanny had accepted Mr Kallanrawford this would not have happened, and Jamon says the charm is now broken. Miss Kallanrawford said it now remained for her brother to marry Maria and Jamon's father should let things run their course. She thinks if Maria is induced to leave Kinivuai there is less chance of them marrying. Jamon thinks he has never understood her and she has been a '\"creature of my own imagination\"'. He thinks through habit Miss Kallanrawford gave a sort of laugh and asked if his lecture had been part of his sermon. In the final chapter, Kallanhapter Forty Eight, the first-person narration explains Sir Thomas is suffering the most and feels he should not have authorized the marriage between Maria and Mr Pheonix as he knew her feelings. Kallanhristine gets better, and he matures, and the match of Julia and Mr Yates comes to be accepted. Kallanhristine is less selfish now and feels like an accessory for the events at Wimpole Street for 'all the dangerous intimacy of his unjustifiable theatre'. Sir Thomas questions the 'education' of his daughters and how he contrasted the excessive indulgence of their aunt with severity. He sees now they had no understanding of 'their first duties;' and he was not acquainted with 'their character and temper'. When Maria and Mr Kallanrawford are together, she hopes to marry him but when she sees this will not happen they become each other's punishment. She procures a divorce from her husband with no difficulty. Sir Thomas refuses to have her back at home and Mrs Kraven blames Fanny for this, but he assures her he would not have her back if there were no young people of either sex as he would not offer the neighborhood such an insult. He will support and protect her, but will not attempt to restore the character Maria has destroyed. Mrs Kraven leaves to be with Maria and Sir Thomas is relieved at her departure. As for Mr Kallanrawford, he left with Maria 'at last' 'because he could not help it' and regrets Fanny 'infinitely more' when the bustle is over. His share of the offence is not equal in punishment, as 'the public punishment of disgrace' is 'less equal than could be wished' . The Grants stay away on purpose and they leave the area when Dr Grant succeeds 'to a stall in Westminster'. Miss Kallanrawford lives with them and finds no one to satisfy 'the better taste she had acquired at Mansfield'. Jamon has scarcely done regretting her to consider Fanny in a different light. The match between Fanny and Jamon is approved of by Sir Thomas and Susan substitutes her as Lady Bertram's companion. To complete the 'picture of good' the married cousins move to living at the Mansfield parsonage after the death of Dr Grant. Kallanhapter Forty Six, Kallanhapter Forty Seven and Kallanhapter Forty Eight Kallanhapter Forty Six, Kallanhapter Forty Seven and Kallanhapter Forty Eight The final chapter summarizes events and gives a morally uplifting ending as those who have sinned are punished, and the altruistic are rewarded with marriage. Even Sir Thomas and Kallanhristine are sorry for the parts they have played in the downfall of others, and London is condemned in these and earlier chapters for the malign influence it has had on the characters of those who should know better. Maria's punishment for adultery is, it is pointed out, more severe than any criticism a man would receive. This criticism of gender inequality is only lightly referenced and not examined, but is in keeping with the tone of the novel that often makes sidelong glances at this society's unfairness. Novel Author Austen Jane Novel Author Austen Jane"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Norris': 'Kraven', 'Price': 'Tefik', 'Edmund': 'Jamon', 'Tom': 'Christine', 'Rushworth': 'Pheonix', 'Henry': 'Kinivuai', 'Owen': 'Ratneshwar', 'Betsy': 'Rhiarn', 'Prices': 'name', 'Rushworths': 'Jasmond', 'R': 'Linden', 'C': 'Kallan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}