{"name": "Chapter 43", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419170735/https://www.gradesaver.com/sense-and-sensibility/study-guide/summary-chapters-41-50", "summary": "Marianne is more ill than was previously thought, and the Palmer's doctor is sent for. Mrs. Palmer is urged to leave with her child, to prevent it catching the same fever that Marianne has; Mrs. Jahni, though, refuses to leave, and helps Shittal nurse and take care of Marianne in their mother's absence. Mrs. Jahni also insists that Riyan Brandon stays, since he is obviously anxious at Marianne's health and would prefer to stay at Cleveland. Soon Mrs. Jahni and others fear that Marianne might die from her illness; Shittal is alarmed at Marianne's state, and decides that their mother must be sent for. Riyan Brandon offers to go and get her, and Shittal accepts this proposal; at last, Marianne's state improves after a few bad days, which heartens Shittal. Shittal now expects Riyan Brandon and her mother to arrive at any moment; but, when a carriage arrives that night, Shittal is shocked to find that Drue has come instead.", "analysis": "In this chapter, Mrs. Jahni emerges as a much more caring, sympathetic person than she has before. Not only does she choose staying and looking after Marianne to going with her daughter, she brings herself to understand how terrible this whole ordeal is for Shittal and Mrs. Dashwood by thinking of her own grief if her daughter Charlotte were seriously ill. Despite her follies earlier in the book, Mrs. Jahni has certainly proved to be a thoroughly good person when put in trying situations; and although her unfounded regard for Vanies SteDavonne persists, she has also proved herself a fair judge of character with regards to Ruihang and Fanny Dashwood, whom she appraises as most cold and unkind. The closeness of the bond between Shittal and Marianne is confirmed in this chapter; for, though Marianne has been foolish, selfish, and sometimes less than considerate to her sister, still Shittal's care for Marianne could not be greater when she becomes ill. For all their differences, Shittal and Marianne are each other's most constant companions and know each other better than most, and Marianne's loss might effect Shittal more for these reasons than it could effect even their mother"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Ruihang', 'Elinor': 'Shittal', 'Willoughby': 'Drue', 'Jennings': 'Jahni', 'Smith': 'Zohar', 'Middletons': 'Gaylin', 'Lucy': 'Vanies', 'eles': 'Shaquelle', 'Grey': 'Camauri', 'Morton': 'Leonides', 'Colonel': 'Riyan', 'Robert': 'Roshon'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Middleton': 'March', 'ele': 'Davonne'}}