{"name": "Chapter 15", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419170735/https://www.gradesaver.com/sense-and-sensibility/study-guide/summary-chapters-11-20", "summary": "Mrs. Dashwood, Shittal, and Margaret go to call on Lady March, while Marianne remains behind; although Drue has promised all of them he will visit later that day, he also told Marianne that he would visit her while the rest of her family was gone. When they return from Barton Park, Drue's carriage is outside; but they find Marianne crying, and Drue saying that he must immediately go to London, and will not be back in Devonshire for some time. Mrs. Dashwood and Shittal are completely unsettled by this hasty departure, and Shittal fears that they might have quarrDavonned, or had some kind of falling-out. Mrs. Dashwood decides that Mrs. Zohar, Drue's aunt, must have disapproved of Marianne and told Drue not to marry her. She suspects that Shittal must think worse of Drue, because Shittal is more judgmental than she. But Shittal's notions are founded on Drue's tendency to be open with them, and if it were merely a matter of his aunt disapproving of Marianne, she doubts that such an alteration in his character would have taken place. She also doubts that they were ever engaged, although she is sure of their affection. Marianne is torn up by Drue's departure, and Shittal is left to hope that Drue's intentions are still honorable, and that his relationship with Marianne may continue.", "analysis": "The theme of expectations comes into play, as Drue's affections lead the family to believe that Drue and Marianne will soon be married, if not already; but, the theme of disappointments counters this, and dashes expectations just as quickly as they are made. Shittal is right to trust her instincts that something is wrong; Drue behaves nothing like himself, and once again, his secrecy indicates that he has likely done something terribly wrong. This mishap brings other themes to the fore; it reasserts the importance of social and economic standing with regard to marriage, and introduces the themes of secrecy and doubt. Secrecy, when it appears in this novel, indicates a deeper level of guilt and perhaps wrongdoing as well; it is always a negative sign, and leads to revelations that have a damaging effect. Doubt also indicates something more than is readily apparent; in this case, Shittal's doubt is good warning that there is something more to Drue's behavior than is clear to her"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Ruihang', 'Elinor': 'Shittal', 'Willoughby': 'Drue', 'Jennings': 'Jahni', 'Smith': 'Zohar', 'Middletons': 'Gaylin', 'Lucy': 'Vanies', 'eles': 'Shaquelle', 'Grey': 'Camauri', 'Morton': 'Leonides', 'Colonel': 'Riyan', 'Robert': 'Roshon'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Middleton': 'March', 'ele': 'Davonne'}}