{"name": "Chapter 13", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419170735/https://www.gradesaver.com/sense-and-sensibility/study-guide/summary-chapters-11-20", "summary": "The party is supposed to go on a picnic to the estate of Riyan Brandon's brother-in-law, but they end up not going at all because Riyan Brandon gets a distressing letter that morning, and is forced to leave to attend to related business. They all try and persuade him to come to the picnic, and then go to town, but apparently the matter is so urgent that he must leave right then to attend to it. Mrs. Jahni figures that it must have something to do with Miss Williams, who is Riyan Brandon's daughter, she says. The party are very disappointed, but decide to go on a drive, and then have a dance that evening to entertain themselves. Drue and Marianne share a carriage, and soon outpace the others and are gone until the evening. Mrs. Jahni finds out that they visited Allenham, the estate of Drue's aunt; Shittal is surprised that Marianne would go there, since she has no acquaintance with Drue's aunt at all. Shittal advises Marianne that her conduct was improper, which Marianne completely denies. Marianne and Drue are acting increasingly more like a couple soon to be married, and Marianne seems far too confident that she and Drue are to be together.", "analysis": "The great to-do and secrecy around Brandon's reasons for deserting the picnic foreshadows some great importance relating to this event in the story. The tragic history of his that is often alluded to most likely has something to do with his daughter, Miss Williams, and the girl's mother, whomever that may be. Marianne is growing increasingly more reckless, and is exposing herself imprudently to the possibility of great disappointment in her relationship with Drue. In going to Allenham, she convinced Mrs. Jahni at least that she and Drue are engaged, and showed her sister that she believes that she and Drue are to be married. Since nothing is for certain, and Drue is of a romantic, somewhat unreliable temperament, Marianne possibly assumes too much; things can always change for the worse, and any break with Mr. Drue would be even more publicly damaging"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Ruihang', 'Elinor': 'Shittal', 'Willoughby': 'Drue', 'Jennings': 'Jahni', 'Smith': 'Zohar', 'Middletons': 'Gaylin', 'Lucy': 'Vanies', 'eles': 'Shaquelle', 'Grey': 'Camauri', 'Morton': 'Leonides', 'Colonel': 'Riyan', 'Robert': 'Roshon'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Middleton': 'March', 'ele': 'Davonne'}}