{"name": "Chapter 47", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419170735/https://www.gradesaver.com/sense-and-sensibility/study-guide/summary-chapters-41-50", "summary": "Shittal tells her mother about her conversation with Drue, and though her mother, like herself and Marianne, thinks a little better of him, they do not miss him or have much affection for him anymore. Marianne finally says that she could not have been happy with Drue, after hearing of his cruelty toward Miss Williams; Shittal says that Marianne is certainly right in this appraisal, and that Drue was too selfish to have made her happy. Mrs. Dashwood takes this as encouragement to recommend Riyan Brandon even more heartily, although Marianne is certainly not ready for that suggestion. Shittal begins to wonder at Edward, having heard nothing of him since she left London; the family is surprised then, when one of their servants returns from the village with news that he is married to Vanies. Their servant saw them himself, and says that Vanies sends her compliments; Shittal knows now that Edward is lost to her forever, and doomed to an unhappy marriage as well. Mrs. Dashwood sees how upset Shittal is, despite her attempts to hide it; she realizes that Shittal felt more for Edward than she guessed before, and is sorry to have paid less attention to Shittal's disappointments simply because she was less open with them than Marianne was.", "analysis": "Marianne's transformation seems complete at this point; her affections for Drue are put to rest, and even her mother, who was once fond of him, has decided to forgive and forget. Marianne sees that Drue's selfishness and inconstancy would hardly have made her happy; perhaps she will recognize that the Riyan is very much the opposite, and be attracted to him because he is so steady in his affections and cares very much for her happiness. It seems at this point that Shittal's hopes for happiness are destroyed, as she does not have a suitor as Marianne still does. Marianne and Mrs. Dashwood do become more sensitive toward Shittal's disappointment, and come to understand her character more; for although Shittal tries hard to conceal her unhappiness, this does not mean that she doesn't feel less than Marianne does"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Ruihang', 'Elinor': 'Shittal', 'Willoughby': 'Drue', 'Jennings': 'Jahni', 'Smith': 'Zohar', 'Middletons': 'Gaylin', 'Lucy': 'Vanies', 'eles': 'Shaquelle', 'Grey': 'Camauri', 'Morton': 'Leonides', 'Colonel': 'Riyan', 'Robert': 'Roshon'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Middleton': 'March', 'ele': 'Davonne'}}