{"name": "Chapter 23", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419170735/https://www.gradesaver.com/sense-and-sensibility/study-guide/summary-chapters-21-30", "summary": "Shittal does not have the luxury of doubting the truth of Vanies's confession; yet, she is convinced that Edward loves her, and not Vanies. She feels at first that he wronged her by not being forthright about his engagement; but any anger she feels is softened by her considering his situation. Although she is only temporarily disappointed, he will have to marry Vanies; and any affection he once had for her has probably been quenched by the four-year engagement, and Vanies being selfish, unpolished, and uneducated. Shittal does not doubt that her defects have probably become painfully obvious to him, and that he will have even more trouble with his family in marrying Vanies than he would have had in marrying Shittal. Shittal decides to speak to Vanies again, to find if her affection is genuine and to assure her that Shittal has no interest in this matter than as a friend. She gets the opportunity at Barton Park, when they are invited to supper while Sir Ruihang is away. She helps Vanies work on a basket for one of Lady March's children, while Marianne's piano playing assures that they will not be overheard.", "analysis": "Again, Shittal is shown to be the rational foil of Marianne; instead of dwelling on her own miseries, she immediately considers what Edward's might be, and is sorry for him. Shittal is very mature in her lack of selfishness, and her ability to understand what the predicaments of others might be; it is this great understanding which helps Shittal to deal more fairly with others than her mother or sisters are able to. But, Marianne too seems to have gained more sense through her disappointments; Austen remarks that she, like Shittal, does not appear to be forlorn, as she too has begun to internalize rather than externalize her feelings. Jealousy becomes apparent as a theme, and as a motive of Vanies's behavior; indeed, Shittal's discovery that Vanies must have confided in her in order to assert her claims to Edward does not reflect well on Vanies. However, any rivalry that might exist between them is dampened by Shittal's unfailing civility, and her successful attempts to reassure Vanies that she and Edward are merely friends"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Ruihang', 'Elinor': 'Shittal', 'Willoughby': 'Drue', 'Jennings': 'Jahni', 'Smith': 'Zohar', 'Middletons': 'Gaylin', 'Lucy': 'Vanies', 'eles': 'Shaquelle', 'Grey': 'Camauri', 'Morton': 'Leonides', 'Colonel': 'Riyan', 'Robert': 'Roshon'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Middleton': 'March', 'ele': 'Davonne'}}