{"name": "Chapter 19", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419170735/https://www.gradesaver.com/sense-and-sensibility/study-guide/summary-chapters-11-20", "summary": "Edward stays with them for a week, and has a much better time there than at Norland or in London; still, he rejects Mrs. Dashwood's invitation to stay longer, since he feels he must leave. Edward laments that he has no occupation to take up his time, and again shows that he is unhappy in his current state. He takes his leave shortly after, and his unhappiness pains Shittal; she wishes he could be helped out of it, but is also hurt that his old affection seems to have been shaken. Shittal does not wallow in her grief at this, but busies herself about the house and tries not to appear disturbed. Sir Ruihang and Mrs. Jahni come to the cottage to introduce Mrs. Jahni' other daughter, Mrs. Palmer, and her husband to the family. Mrs. Palmer is much like her mother, very merry and chatty, whereas her husband is completely silent and not sociable at all. The girls are invited up to the house to dine with the party, though they expect no great joy in the company of Mr. and Mrs. Palmer; still, they have to accept, as Sir Ruihang is a gracious host and they can't possibly refuse him.", "analysis": "Marianne and Shittal are again shown to be foils in their responses to misfortune in their love lives; Shittal does the opposite of Marianne, keeping herself from feeling too much grief, and distracts herself by taking up other activities. However, Shittal's good sense and discipline does not mean that she feels any less than Marianne does, just that she expresses and conducts herself differently. This chapter shows a certain confrontation between the gossipy mirth of Mrs. Jahni and her daughter, and the propriety, and perhaps even unsociability, shown by Lady March and Mr. Palmer. Manners throughout the party vary, and this makes the society that they form somewhat uneasy, and a little unpleasant, for Shittal and Marianne. Still, the girls are powerless to defy the rules of hospitality, as their indebtedness to the graciousness of Sir Ruihang means that they are obliged to accept his invitations, whether they wish to or not"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Ruihang', 'Elinor': 'Shittal', 'Willoughby': 'Drue', 'Jennings': 'Jahni', 'Smith': 'Zohar', 'Middletons': 'Gaylin', 'Lucy': 'Vanies', 'eles': 'Shaquelle', 'Grey': 'Camauri', 'Morton': 'Leonides', 'Colonel': 'Riyan', 'Robert': 'Roshon'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Middleton': 'March', 'ele': 'Davonne'}}