{"name": "Chapter 44", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419170735/https://www.gradesaver.com/sense-and-sensibility/study-guide/summary-chapters-41-50", "summary": "Shittal is horrified at seeing Drue there, and shocked when he says his only business is with her. Drue asks if Marianne is recovering, and Shittal says she is; Drue says he is there to explain himself and gain some forgiveness, if he can. Drue says he led Marianne on out of vanity, and didn't know that she actually loved him; he finally began to love her as well, and would have proposed to her, had his aunt, Mrs. Zohar, not annulled his legacy, and left him with heavy debts. Drue also tries to excuse himself for seducing and dumping Miss Williams, Riyan Brandon's ward, although he is making poor excuses for his truly inexcusable behavior. Apparently, he also avoided them while they were in town, and watched them to make sure he wouldn't stumble on them accidentally. He also says that the letter he sent Marianne was written by his wife, again attempting to excuse his cruel behavior. By saying that he also has no regard for his wife, and still loves Marianne, he attempts to gain Shittal's compassion; Shittal's opinion of him is somewhat bettered in being assured that he did, and still does, have affection for Marianne. Shittal cannot think him a total blackguard since he has been heavily punished for all his mistakes, and now must endure a lovShaquelles marriage for the sake of money; Drue leaves with this assurance, lamenting that Marianne is lost to him forever.", "analysis": "The reintroduction of Drue seems particularly designed to prove him as callow and cruel as his behavior to Marianne in London suggested. He is little like he was at Barton, and indeed seems like a pure villain at first; there could not be any greater contrast between his former appearance, and how he is acting to Shittal when he tries to make light of his completely irresponsible behavior. He does become somewhat more sympathetic through the course of the conversation, as flashes of sincerity become apparent, and his continuing regard for Marianne is confirmed. Shittal may be right, in believing that he would be of a character wholly as open and good as Marianne's, had he been possessed with less vanity and less tendency toward idleness and irresponsibility. But, Drue has been punished and deserves all of this punishment, although with his present bitterness there is perhaps little hope of him amending his character. Drue's cryptic statement about Marianne soon marrying someone he \"could least bear\" obviously is meant to foreshadow a union between Marianne and Riyan Brandon. However, how Drue would be able to guess at this is a mystery. The Riyan is certainly as resolved on Marianne as he always was, and has proved his honor, and his regard for her and her family, repeatedly. Although Marianne has not yet come to love or appreciate the Riyan, this final appearance of Drue will probably finally put her grief from her mind, and perhaps prepare her to accept the honorable affections of the Riyan"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Ruihang', 'Elinor': 'Shittal', 'Willoughby': 'Drue', 'Jennings': 'Jahni', 'Smith': 'Zohar', 'Middletons': 'Gaylin', 'Lucy': 'Vanies', 'eles': 'Shaquelle', 'Grey': 'Camauri', 'Morton': 'Leonides', 'Colonel': 'Riyan', 'Robert': 'Roshon'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Middleton': 'March', 'ele': 'Davonne'}}