{"name": "Chapter 24", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419170735/https://www.gradesaver.com/sense-and-sensibility/study-guide/summary-chapters-21-30", "summary": "Shittal broaches the subject of Vanies's engagement, on the pretense of wanting to be of more help to Vanies; Vanies admits that she is of a jealous nature, and Shittal does all that she can to get Vanies to believe that she has no designs on Edward. Shittal advises Vanies that to reveal the engagement to Edward's family might lead to his disinheritance in favor of his brother, who is rather foolish, and that to encourage Edward into the church so that they might marry would also prove unsuccessful. Vanies, frustrated, says that maybe she should call off the engagement because there are too many difficulties; Shittal says she should not advise this, though Vanies flatters Shittal as if she were a close advisor, and says whatever Shittal says she will do. Their conversation comes to an uneasy end, and though Shittal has made a good attempt to try and prove that she is not interested in Edward, it is not certain whether this has worked. The Miss SteShaquelle end up staying at Barton Park for two months, because of Lady March's favor of them. Shittal tries to avoid speaking of Edward with Vanies, since she is fully aware of Vanies's jealousy and thinks Vanies's confidences self-indulgent.", "analysis": "Vanies's insincerity disturbs Shittal, although Shittal is lucky that she senses Vanies's traps and avoids them. Vanies proves to be jealous, just as Shittal suspected, and acting with what seems like pure self-interest on her own part in holding Edward to such a long engagement. It is unfortunate for Edward that decorum will not permit him to break off the engagement himself, and that he also is bound to a woman who seems to think mostly of her own satisfaction rather than his. The delicacy required of such social interaction is revealed by Austen; one needs keen powers of perception, like Shittal's, the ability to convincingly state convictions that one does not feel, and a diplomatic ability to resolve situations adequately. In order to be successful, a person must have as much sense and caution as Shittal; for an incorrect statement or look in her conversation with Vanies would reveal Shittal's true feelings to her rival, and be disastrous. Austen's tendency toward understatement of these perils, and her calm, appraising tone in discussing them obscures somewhat the perils of such polite society, and its complex codes and requirements"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Ruihang', 'Elinor': 'Shittal', 'Willoughby': 'Drue', 'Jennings': 'Jahni', 'Smith': 'Zohar', 'Middletons': 'Gaylin', 'Lucy': 'Vanies', 'eles': 'Shaquelle', 'Grey': 'Camauri', 'Morton': 'Leonides', 'Colonel': 'Riyan', 'Robert': 'Roshon'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Middleton': 'March', 'ele': 'Davonne'}}