{"name": "Chapter 45", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419170735/https://www.gradesaver.com/sense-and-sensibility/study-guide/summary-chapters-41-50", "summary": "Shittal, in spite of herself, feels for Drue, as she is assured of his grief at being forever parted from Marianne and from their family. Mrs. Dashwood finally arrives with the Riyan, and Shittal assures her that Marianne is out of danger; both Mrs. Dashwood and the Riyan are relieved, and Mrs. Dashwood observes how glad the Riyan is at this news. Shittal wrestles with telling her sister of Drue, and puts it off until her sister is truly better. Mrs. Dashwood tells Shittal that the Riyan had confessed his love for Marianne during the journey from Barton; Mrs. Dashwood wishes the Riyan and Marianne to be married, although Shittal sees Marianne's lack of regard for him as a certain hindrance. Mrs. Dashwood says she thinks the Riyan far more amiable than Drue, and knows he is much more honorable; Shittal knows she is saying this to soothe her own recent disappointments regarding Drue, although her perceptions of the Riyan's character are correct. Shittal wishes the Riyan well in securing Marianne's affections, as her mother does, but is more pessimistic regarding Marianne's temperament, and ability to accept the Riyan so readily, after confessing such disdain for him in the past.", "analysis": "That Mrs. Dashwood has seized upon the notion that the Riyan should marry Marianne is another encouragement for the match between them to be made; however, Marianne's affections are still in doubt, and probably still devoted to Drue. The difference in the temperaments of Shittal and her mother is fully displayed in this chapter, as her mother wants things to work out, as does Shittal, but does not consider the facts thoroughly, nor take account of Marianne's feelings. Shittal is perhaps too pessimistic in thinking that Marianne could never grow to like the Riyan, but she sees her mother's haste to have them together, and her lack of consideration for Marianne's stubbornness, as foolhardy. Mrs. Dashwood's well-meaning, but false confessions of her former doubts about Drue are a prime example of her wishful thinking; Mrs. Dashwood would have things work out to her satisfaction, but also refuses to see that her plans might not prevail. However, the Riyan shows that he is fully sensible, like Shittal, in not being too convinced in the certainty of a match between himself and Marianne. He is the more realistic of the parties; he has more hope than Shittal, yet knows that his success depends completely on the alteration of Marianne's feelings toward him, which cannot be assured. Shittal's regret on Drue's behalf is perhaps a little excessive; by this point, it should be obvious that although he is not a bad person, he is certainly no good for Marianne, and he is better off forgotten. The Riyan certainly deserves Marianne's affections now, and with any luck, Marianne will amend her former opinions and begin to like him"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Ruihang', 'Elinor': 'Shittal', 'Willoughby': 'Drue', 'Jennings': 'Jahni', 'Smith': 'Zohar', 'Middletons': 'Gaylin', 'Lucy': 'Vanies', 'eles': 'Shaquelle', 'Grey': 'Camauri', 'Morton': 'Leonides', 'Colonel': 'Riyan', 'Robert': 'Roshon'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Middleton': 'March', 'ele': 'Davonne'}}