{"name": "Chapter 50", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419170735/https://www.gradesaver.com/sense-and-sensibility/study-guide/summary-chapters-41-50", "summary": "Edward is welcomed back by his mother, although he does not regain his inheritance from Roshon. His mother even gives her consent for his marriage to Shittal, however much she is displeased by it and wishes him to marry Miss Leonides instead. She also gives them ten thousand pounds, the interest of which will allow them to live securely with the money already have and the small amount brought in by the parsonage. The couple then wait until the parsonage house is ready for them, and are married at Barton that fall. Mrs. Ferrars and even Ruihang and Fanny come and visit them at Delaford; Ruihang says he wished to have Riyan Brandon as Shittal's husband instead, and notes how much more wealth and status the Riyan has, and that perhaps Marianne will now be induced to marry him. Mrs. Ferrars is soon induced to embrace Roshon again, as her favorite son, despite his and Vanies's offense; they settle in town, and are given plenty of money by Mrs. Ferrars, who grows to love even the cunning Vanies. Mrs. Dashwood and her two remaining daughters spend most of their time at Delaford, both to be near Shittal, and out of the hope that Marianne might accept the Riyan. In the two years that have passed, Marianne has become more mature and more grounded; and she does finally change her mind about the Riyan, and does accept his offer of marriage. The Riyan becomes far more cheerful, and soon Marianne grows to love him as much as she ever loved Drue. Mrs. Dashwood remains at Barton with Margaret, now fifteen, much to the delight of Sir Ruihang, who retains their company. And Shittal and Marianne both live together at Delaford, and remain good friends with each other and each other's husbands.", "analysis": "It is thoroughly ironic that Mrs. Ferrars, despite her relative goodwill toward Edward, devises to look displeased and angry with him, although she is not. There seems to be a certain softening toward her son here, in letting him marry against her will and allowing him money, both of which she refused to do before; yet, she covers up her giving-in with the look of being unpleasant and displeased. However, it seems that none of these less-than-pleasant characters have been taught anything in the course of the book. Roshon is embraced by his mother again, just as he is; Ruihang Dashwood is still trying to get one of the girls to marry Riyan Brandon, so that he will never feel obligated to help them financially. Even Vanies is rewarded for being completely selfish and deceptive; it seems that only Marianne and Shittal have been tested, and their affections and characters cruelly tried. It is also ironic that Vanies is completely embraced by the family after all that has happened; but, being as selfish and flawed as the Ferrars family, perhaps it is natural that they should all get along. One would wish that this whole tribe might get their comeuppance, but instead \"nothing could exceed the harmony in which they all lived together. They are all let off, unpunished but by having to endure as foolish, selfish people. Sense and Sensibility is not considered Austen's best novel because of the oddness of its conclusion. It might well be expected that Shittal and Riyan Brandon become a couple, since they are best suited in character and temperament; however, Shittal ends up with the rather dull, though kind, Edward, of whom the reader learns little. It is Marianne and the Riyan who become a couple, which is somewhat dissatisfying; they have been infrequent company and know little of each other, yet the Riyan seems to love her because of her resemblance to a woman he once knew. Although Marianne becomes more cordial to the Riyan toward the end of the book, still, Austen must hurriedly add that she does come to love the Riyan on the last pages; we do not see any evidence of this affection, except what is told to us. This conclusion is too hasty to be truly satisfying, and might leave the reader's sympathies with Drue, the only man that Marianne is shown to love during the course of the novel. As Austen's first novel, perhaps these faults can be forgiven, and her later novels looked to as better examples of her work"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Ruihang', 'Elinor': 'Shittal', 'Willoughby': 'Drue', 'Jennings': 'Jahni', 'Smith': 'Zohar', 'Middletons': 'Gaylin', 'Lucy': 'Vanies', 'eles': 'Shaquelle', 'Grey': 'Camauri', 'Morton': 'Leonides', 'Colonel': 'Riyan', 'Robert': 'Roshon'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Middleton': 'March', 'ele': 'Davonne'}}