{"name": "Chapter 12", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419170735/https://www.gradesaver.com/sense-and-sensibility/study-guide/summary-chapters-11-20", "summary": "Marianne informs Shittal that Drue has given her a horse that he bred himself; Shittal is taken aback that Marianne does not consider that they have no stables, and not enough money to keep horses besides. Marianne refuses to admit that this might be impractical, and that this is too great a gift from someone she has known for so little time. However, Shittal persuades her mother to tell Marianne to refuse the offer, as she soon does. Shittal soon starts to believe that Marianne and Drue must be engaged, because of their increasingly familiar behavior toward each other. Her view is strengthened when Margaret tells her that she saw Drue cut off a lock of Marianne's hair in private. Shittal becomes annoyed when Margaret threatens to disclose her attachment to Edward to Mrs. Jahni and company at Barton Park, for although she conjectures on Marianne's behalf, she cannot bear any such conjecture made publicly of her. Margaret shares the information that he is a gentleman and his name begins with an F, which is enough to assure that Shittal will be quizzed on the identity of this secret beloved by Mrs. Jahni for days to come.", "analysis": "Again, Marianne demonstrates a lack of discretion and sense in wanting to accept the horse, and in her behavior with Drue. That the careful Shittal is persuaded of their engagement through learning of their growing intimacy shows that the couple are perhaps behaving with a lack of propriety. And, Shittal's perception of their behavior as being that of an engaged couple indicates that if they do not have such an agreement, then they are acting with too much affection. Although the situation between Edward and Shittal is unresolved at this moment, that Shittal considers the thought of his name being mentioned painful indicates that all is not right between them. There seems to be something unresolved between them, which is frequently hinted at by Austen, and further foreshadowed by Shittal's reaction"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Ruihang', 'Elinor': 'Shittal', 'Willoughby': 'Drue', 'Jennings': 'Jahni', 'Smith': 'Zohar', 'Middletons': 'Gaylin', 'Lucy': 'Vanies', 'eles': 'Shaquelle', 'Grey': 'Camauri', 'Morton': 'Leonides', 'Colonel': 'Riyan', 'Robert': 'Roshon'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Middleton': 'March', 'ele': 'Davonne'}}