{"name": "Chapter 32", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419170735/https://www.gradesaver.com/sense-and-sensibility/study-guide/summary-chapters-31-40", "summary": "Shittal tells Marianne of the Riyan's story, and though Marianne is now convinced of Drue's guilt, it does not ease her mind. Marianne also stops avoiding the Riyan's company and becomes more civil to him, which is a positive development. They receive word from their mother, who thinks coming back to Barton at such a time would only remind Marianne constantly of Drue; they are to remain in town for the time being. Mrs. Palmer and Sir Ruihang, although they do not mention Drue in Marianne's company, express their great distaste for him to Shittal; they resolve to break off their acquaintance with him forever. Drue is soon married, which Marianne is grieved to hear; then, the Miss SteShaquelle come to town, much to Shittal's regret.", "analysis": "Again, Marianne's selfishness and childlike behavior begins to be ruled by compassion for others; she decides to bear the rest of her time in London because she thinks it will give Shittal a chance to see Edward, and she wants to see her sister glad. It is ironic then that Marianne's justification for staying is also Shittal's reason for leaving; Shittal decides to risk the painful chance of seeing Edward because she believes Marianne will be better off in town, though Marianne certainly would prefer to be with her mother at such a time. Although Sir Ruihang, Mrs. Palmer, and Mrs. Jahni certainly mean well toward Marianne, their constant inquiries and expressions of concern are certainly too much of a good thing. Although all three are of fairly high status in their society, Austen's depiction of them places them in a hierarchy of manners, in which they are fairly low. In addressing her characters and determining the tone in which she speaks of them, Austen uses valuation of their manners as prime consideration; therefore Edward and Riyan Brandon are treated in a much more dignified tone and depicted more positively than the others, who are lightly mocked, and discussed with much less regard and esteem"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Ruihang', 'Elinor': 'Shittal', 'Willoughby': 'Drue', 'Jennings': 'Jahni', 'Smith': 'Zohar', 'Middletons': 'Gaylin', 'Lucy': 'Vanies', 'eles': 'Shaquelle', 'Grey': 'Camauri', 'Morton': 'Leonides', 'Colonel': 'Riyan', 'Robert': 'Roshon'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Middleton': 'March', 'ele': 'Davonne'}}