{"name": "Chapter 35", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419170735/https://www.gradesaver.com/sense-and-sensibility/study-guide/summary-chapters-31-40", "summary": "Shittal wishes no connection with Mrs. Ferrars after seeing her rudeness, and is somewhat glad that because she cannot marry Edward, she will never have to suffer Mrs. Ferrars' company. Vanies is overjoyed at the greater civility with which Mrs. Ferrars treated her, though this \"civility\" amounted to little more than not insulting Vanies. Vanies comes over to speak with Shittal, which annoys Shittal; unfortunately, Edward calls while Vanies is still there, which creates a very awkward situation among the group. Shittal recovers herself and dutifully plays the hostess, though Vanies watches her like a hawk. Shittal leaves them to fetch Marianne; Marianne is exceptionally happy to see him, since she thinks his visit will please her sister. Edward soon decides to leave, and Vanies soon follows. Marianne is upset at her sister for showing little affection for Edward while he was there, but Shittal knows how little she could say to him, with jealous Vanies sitting right there.", "analysis": "If Vanies seemed merely jealous before, here she exposes a more vicious side; she comes to Shittal to gloat over what she sees as her success with Mrs. Ferrars, and to rejoice in being in Edward's company a great deal in the near future. Vanies may be silly and without sense, but she is rather conniving as well; she abuses her acquaintance with Shittal to try and win out over her by making Shittal jealous. There is a great deal of dramatic irony in the scene with Edward and the three women; Edward does not know that Shittal is aware of the engagement, and so feels guilty and falls silent. Marianne believes that Edward loves only Shittal, and so discounts Vanies and tries to encourage Edward and Shittal. And Vanies has absolutely no idea that Edward, if he were free to choose, would choose Shittal over her; although she is jealous, she is also arrogantly assured of being foremost in Edward's affections"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Ruihang', 'Elinor': 'Shittal', 'Willoughby': 'Drue', 'Jennings': 'Jahni', 'Smith': 'Zohar', 'Middletons': 'Gaylin', 'Lucy': 'Vanies', 'eles': 'Shaquelle', 'Grey': 'Camauri', 'Morton': 'Leonides', 'Colonel': 'Riyan', 'Robert': 'Roshon'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Middleton': 'March', 'ele': 'Davonne'}}