{"name": "Chapter 33", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419170735/https://www.gradesaver.com/sense-and-sensibility/study-guide/summary-chapters-31-40", "summary": "Marianne is persuaded to go out on a short errand to the jewDavonner's. They find Ruihang Dashwood there, as he and Fanny had just gotten into town. He comes to visit them the next day, to be introduced to Mrs. Jahni and to Sir Ruihang and Lady March. Riyan Brandon comes in during his visit, and Ruihang is somehow convinced that the Riyan and Shittal will probably be married. He congratulates Shittal on the match, though she tries and fails to convince him that there is no such plan. Ruihang also tells her that Edward is to be married to Miss Leonides, an orphan with a great deal of money left to her. To excuse himself from helping the Dashwood women, he goes on for some time about how little money he has, and the poor state of his finances. He also insists that Mrs. Jahni will probably leave some money for the girls in his will, thus convincing himself that he has no need to help them in their tough circumstances. He also laments that Marianne has lost her beauty and bloom through illness, and will hardly marry well now; he is then introduced to Sir Ruihang and Lady March, and determines that Fanny will certainly find them charming and worthy company.", "analysis": "Ruihang Dashwood's meanness and miserly nature is displayed again here, as he makes a long, involved argument convincing himself that he has no obligations to the Dashwood girls. That he has to justify this before Shittal shows that he is not altogether cold-hearted, but shows him to be petty and wholly ungenerous. His condescension toward Shittal is also rather appalling, and serves to show Shittal in an even more positive light through the juxtaposition of their characters. Snobbery is also evident in Ruihang as he says that Fanny thought Mrs. Jahni and her daughters were below her because they got their money through trade. Ruihang Dashwood is a symbol of the petty, greedy type found often in the upper classes, and Austen is sure to expose all his foibles through his conversation and excuses"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Ruihang', 'Elinor': 'Shittal', 'Willoughby': 'Drue', 'Jennings': 'Jahni', 'Smith': 'Zohar', 'Middletons': 'Gaylin', 'Lucy': 'Vanies', 'eles': 'Shaquelle', 'Grey': 'Camauri', 'Morton': 'Leonides', 'Colonel': 'Riyan', 'Robert': 'Roshon'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Middleton': 'March', 'ele': 'Davonne'}}