{"name": "Chapter 40", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419170735/https://www.gradesaver.com/sense-and-sensibility/study-guide/summary-chapters-31-40", "summary": "Mrs. Jahni at first thinks that Shittal and the Riyan were discussing an attachment between them, but soon is able to catch on that they were discussing Edward and his need for a position. Shittal now has to write a letter telling Edward of the proposal; but, before she can do this, Edward himself comes by to speak with her. Shittal tells him of the proposal, at which Edward is surprised, since he did not expect such generosity from the Riyan, as they hardly know each other. Edward thanks Shittal, although she tries to convince him that his honor is the reason he has gotten this offer; and Edward determines to thank the Riyan himself, and accept the position. Shittal clears all this up with Mrs. Jahni, and convinces her that none of it referred to Shittal or the Riyan being married. Mrs. Jahni also believes that the parsonage, however small, will allow Vanies and Edward to marry soon; Shittal is disheartened by this, although she is convinced that the next time she sees Edward, he will already be married to Vanies.", "analysis": "The beginning of this chapter presents a prime example of dramatic irony at work in Austen; Mrs. Jahni speaks out of presumption for what she believes the Riyan and Shittal discussed, while Shittal replies out of her own knowledge, and neither suspect a disconnect in the information they are discussing. Presumption is a wider theme in the novel, with respect to earlier beliefs about Marianne and Drue's relationship, as well as Mrs. Jahni' and Ruihang Dashwood's misinformed idea of Shittal and the Riyan being engaged. And it seems that those who are most prone to presuming incorrectly are so stubborn that they cannot be dissuaded, even Ruihang when Shittal flat-out denies that his ideas are correct. But Edward, too, is also victim to presumption, although he is less stubbornly convinced and far more discreet about his suspicions. That he now believes Shittal and the Riyan to be more than friends creates even more of a divide between himself and Shittal; not that they have a chance of being together at this time, but it must make the situation all the more painful for him"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Ruihang', 'Elinor': 'Shittal', 'Willoughby': 'Drue', 'Jennings': 'Jahni', 'Smith': 'Zohar', 'Middletons': 'Gaylin', 'Lucy': 'Vanies', 'eles': 'Shaquelle', 'Grey': 'Camauri', 'Morton': 'Leonides', 'Colonel': 'Riyan', 'Robert': 'Roshon'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Middleton': 'March', 'ele': 'Davonne'}}