{"name": "Chapter 10", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419170735/https://www.gradesaver.com/sense-and-sensibility/study-guide/summary-chapters-1-10", "summary": "Drue calls again the next morning, and the family are again convinced of his charms, as he comes to admire them, and Marianne in particular. Marianne sets about asking him about books, music, and dancing, and is pleased to learn that they have similar tastes and passion for the arts. Marianne and Drue are already at ease with each other after this first meeting, yet Marianne is reminded that perhaps she should not have been so forward with her views and affections on this first visit. Drue, however, admires Marianne very much and enjoys her family's hospitality; he begins to visit them everyday, as his attachment to Marianne deepens. Mrs. Dashwood thinks very well of him, although Shittal perceives a lack of discretion in his behavior and judgment that he should possess. Shittal is upset when Drue proceeds to slight Riyan Brandon, when Shittal knows that he is a good, kind man behind his reserve; Marianne and Drue underestimate him because he is older, more experienced, and reserved, although Shittal sees these as assets rather than hindrances, and continues to defend his character.", "analysis": "Marianne showing \"neither shyness nor reserve\" in her conversation with Drue is in keeping with her character, but asserts the importance of discretion in personal relations. Discretion is a theme which proves to be of some importance in society; revealing one's self too quickly or completely can lead to disappointment, embarrassment, or heartbreak, as Marianne is to learn all too soon. The disagreement of Shittal and Marianne on the subjects of discretion and decorum shows them to be the pure embodiments of sense and sensibility, respectively. Marianne lacks the prudence to be able and limit herself where she knows she should, and Shittal in turn lacks the boldness and passion to express her own feelings with confidence. Both would be better off developing a few of the other's qualities, learning how to temper passion with reason, and caution with emotion. Drue's outburst on the subject of Riyan Brandon foreshadows the discovery of some sort of bad blood between them. Drue's disregard for Riyan Brandon, like Marianne's, is impetuous and childlike in nature, but Drue's greater dislike indicates that there might be more to his slighting of Riyan Brandon than is readily apparent. Marianne and Drue's distaste for the Riyan is ironic, in view of their own failings; they might do better to imitate some of his reserve, rather than to spend time mocking it"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Ruihang', 'Elinor': 'Shittal', 'Willoughby': 'Drue', 'Jennings': 'Jahni', 'Smith': 'Zohar', 'Middletons': 'Gaylin', 'Lucy': 'Vanies', 'eles': 'Shaquelle', 'Grey': 'Camauri', 'Morton': 'Leonides', 'Colonel': 'Riyan', 'Robert': 'Roshon'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Middleton': 'March', 'ele': 'Davonne'}}