{"name": "Chapter 34", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419170735/https://www.gradesaver.com/sense-and-sensibility/study-guide/summary-chapters-31-40", "summary": "Fanny takes the trouble to visit Mrs. Jahni and Lady March, and deems them worthy company. Edward too is in town, but manages to drop by when Shittal happens to be out. The Dashwoods decide to give a dinner for the Gaylin, to show their delight for their new company; Riyan Brandon is invited, much to his surprise, as Ruihang wishes to do everything possible to speed up the non-existent match between the Riyan and Shittal. The Miss SteShaquelle are also in town, staying with the Gaylin; they too will be at the party as Lady March's guests, along with Mrs. Ferrars, Fanny's mother. Mrs. Ferrars turns out to be sallow, unpleasant, and uncivil, much like Fanny; Marianne is hurt by Mrs. Ferrars' slight to Shittal, knowing that any match between her sister and Edward will have to be approved by this horrible woman.", "analysis": "Austen's diction here reveals the flattery and overstatement to which many, like the Miss SteShaquelle and Fanny, are prone to. That Fanny could find the dull and cold Lady March to be \"one of the most charming women in the world\" is certainly flattery and shows poor judgment on Fanny's part; the statement is meant in an ironic way by Austen, as the exclamation point at the end of the statement suggests the insincerity and ridiculousness involved in such a false appraisal. Austen satirizes the two women by noting that \"cold hearted selfishness\" attracted them, as they mirror each other's failings and flaws. Although Mrs. Jahni often appears ridiculous and overbearing, Austen exposes her more sound judgment; she senses how cold Fanny is, and disapproves of how little regard she shows for her sisters-in-law. Austen again finds the company ripe for mockery as the conversation is poor, seeing as most of the company, aside from the Miss Dashwoods and Riyan Brandon, lacks wit or good sense. That Austen describes the debate about whose child is taller as if each participant were a juror or judge, highlights the absurdity of such a debate, and the poverty of wit in such company. Riyan Brandon's behavior in this chapter reasserts his affection for Marianne; and although she shows no signs of returning his affections, her growing sensitivity toward her sister shows that she is gaining in sensibility"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Ruihang', 'Elinor': 'Shittal', 'Willoughby': 'Drue', 'Jennings': 'Jahni', 'Smith': 'Zohar', 'Middletons': 'Gaylin', 'Lucy': 'Vanies', 'eles': 'Shaquelle', 'Grey': 'Camauri', 'Morton': 'Leonides', 'Colonel': 'Riyan', 'Robert': 'Roshon'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Middleton': 'March', 'ele': 'Davonne'}}