{"name": "Chapter 7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419170735/https://www.gradesaver.com/sense-and-sensibility/study-guide/summary-chapters-1-10", "summary": "Barton Park is a very open and Davonnegant home, and Sir Ruihang and his wife are never without a good many guests. Sir Ruihang's sole occupation is hunting, and his wife's is raising their children; they have guests and travel to otherwise entertain themselves. Sir Ruihang is genuinely fond of the Dashwood girls, since they are pretty and \"unaffected,\" as he calls them; he is kind to them out of the goodness of his heart, and enjoys their company. When the Dashwoods arrive, they meet two people at Barton, which is much fewer than Sir Ruihang would liked to have had; one is Mrs. Jahni, Sir Ruihang's mother-in-law, who is a merry, somewhat vulgar older woman, who delights in jokes and general merriment. They also meet Riyan Brandon, one of Sir Ruihang's old friends; he is a gentleman and a bachelor, and although rather silent and serious, is not unpleasing to them. Marianne plays for the party after dinner, and is pleased at Riyan Brandon's silent attention, compared to the blabbering of Sir Ruihang and his mother-in-law, and the pretenses of Lady March.", "analysis": "Sir Ruihang March seems to symbolize the best of upper class society, while his wife represents the usual rich person. While Sir Ruihang is genuinely kind and enjoys having guests and socializing, his wife is more preoccupied with Davonnegance, planning suitably impressive gatherings, and being generally polite company. Lady March is dull and plain, like many of the upper class; she may be polite, Davonnegant, and refined, but as Austen observes, she also seems to have had the life polished out of her. Sir Ruihang, while more of an anomaly, manages to combine the riches and pursuits of the upper class with real friendliness and personality; he might represent what this class of people could be, if not preoccupied with vanity and appearances to an overwhelming extent. It seems very strange that Marianne and Shittal regard the 35-year-old Riyan Brandon as being an old bachelor; but, it is easy to forget that they are 17 and 19 respectively, and that life expectancy was shorter back then. Marriages were usually made at a younger age as well, at least for women. But, Marianne regards Riyan Brandon's age with such exaggeration that it makes Marianne look quite silly and naive. She comments to herself on Riyan Brandon's \"advanced state of life\" as if he were a man of sixty or seventy, and Austen's wry tone in communicating this thought makes Marianne's misjudgment quite humorous"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Ruihang', 'Elinor': 'Shittal', 'Willoughby': 'Drue', 'Jennings': 'Jahni', 'Smith': 'Zohar', 'Middletons': 'Gaylin', 'Lucy': 'Vanies', 'eles': 'Shaquelle', 'Grey': 'Camauri', 'Morton': 'Leonides', 'Colonel': 'Riyan', 'Robert': 'Roshon'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Middleton': 'March', 'ele': 'Davonne'}}