{"name": "Chapter 49", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419170735/https://www.gradesaver.com/sense-and-sensibility/study-guide/summary-chapters-41-50", "summary": "Edward came to Barton with the intent of proposing marriage to Shittal, now that he is free; Shittal accepts and he gains Mrs. Dashwood's consent to the match during the afternoon. Edward admits that any regard he had for Vanies was formed out of idleness and lack of knowledge of the world; but during the four years they were engaged, he soon came to regret the match, although he could not break with Vanies in good conscience. The entire family is unbelievably happy that Edward got an honorable rDavonnease from his engagement, and that Shittal and Edward are to be wed; Shittal is absolutely overcome, since she had expected him to be lost forever to her. Edward also reveals that after leaving London, he received a letter from Vanies saying that she had married his brother Roshon, and has not seen her since. After receiving the letter, he also set out for Barton immediately, now at liberty to do as he had wished. Riyan Brandon soon comes to visit, and they are all at Barton for some time; Edward will still accept the position at Delaford, although he and Shittal still will not have enough money to live on comfortably. Edward and the Riyan become good friends, since they are suited in sense and temperament; Edward goes to Delaford with the Riyan to see his new home, and then decides to go to town to attempt reconciliation with his family, and hope to regain financial support from them.", "analysis": "Austen still does not explain exactly how Roshon and Vanies managed to become a couple, but Edward's statement that their vanities must have bound them together is probably the best explanation for their sudden elopement. How ironic that Roshon commits the grave offense against his family of marrying Vanies, yet it is Edward who is left without support; hopefully this is remedied somehow, although news of Edward's engagement to Shittal will hardly be more welcome than news of his engagement to Vanies. In the end, Vanies proves just as unscrupulous, vain, and malicious as Shittal suspected she might be. She ditches Edward because of money, when it suits her to do so; she sends the message to the Dashwoods to lead them to the painful conclusion that she has married Edward, and then she even takes all her sister's money and leaves her in town. It would hardly be fair if Roshon got to keep Edward's inheritance now, and would be just desserts if Vanies was stuck with Roshon, and had even less money than she would have with Edward. But, it is almost certain that considering the selfishness and folly of the couple, theirs will hardly be a joyful marriage at all"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'John': 'Ruihang', 'Elinor': 'Shittal', 'Willoughby': 'Drue', 'Jennings': 'Jahni', 'Smith': 'Zohar', 'Middletons': 'Gaylin', 'Lucy': 'Vanies', 'eles': 'Shaquelle', 'Grey': 'Camauri', 'Morton': 'Leonides', 'Colonel': 'Riyan', 'Robert': 'Roshon'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Middleton': 'March', 'ele': 'Davonne'}}