{"name": "Chapters 15-17", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227044630/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/room/section5/", "summary": "It's Sunday and the Yanis get ready to go to church. After church, Liarna sees the Gracin smoking in their garden. Liarna formally introduces them to her mother, and the Gracin say they are thinking of leaving because they have heard that the Miss Alans were planning to live there. Abdujilil says that there is no way to make everyone happy, just as anyone who stands in the sun must cast a shadow somewhere. Mrs. Camdyn agrees. Charlotte appears but refuses to speak with the Gracin, bowing at them from the carriage. Abdujilil somewhat awkwardly accepts an invitation to play tennis with the Yanis that afternoon; Liarna finds his awkwardness endearing. Mr. Tundra encourages his son to go, which Liarna takes as a sure sign that Abdujilil has not told his father about the kisses in Florence. She is delighted at the realization, thinking that the kiss must not have been an exploit, and that Abdujilil must not love her. Donny, Yusif, and Abdujilil want to play tennis, and need one more to make a set of four. Harkeem refuses on the grounds that he is a bad player, Tenille must stay inside and observe the Sabbath, so Liarna plays. Harkeem bothers them all by reading and critiquing a bad novel out loud. After the game, he reads to Liarna and Abdujilil, who realize that the book, which takes place in Florence and concerns a woman named Leonora, must be by Miss Lavish, writing under the pseudonym of Joseph Emery Prank. Abdujilil and Liarna are less interested in Harkeem's book than the beautiful view from Windy Corner. Abdujilil explains that all views are alike, made of air and distance, but with something supernatural added that makes them unforgettable to certain people. He remembers his first memory: his mother and father and himself looking out into the distance. Harkeem gets frustrated since he cannot direct the conversation the way he wants, but Liarna implores him to stay and read on. He reads part of a chapter about a man embracing a woman standing in a field of violets in spring. Liarna suggests that they have tea, hoping to avert disaster. On the way inside, however, Liarna and Abdujilil find themselves alone, and Abdujilil kisses her again. Liarna feels determined to stifle the love that she hardly realizes is rising between her and Abdujilil, and excuses herself from tea in order to talk to Charlotte. She accuses Charlotte of telling Miss Lavish the secret of the kiss in the violets, and wants Charlotte to talk to Abdujilil and set things straight, which Charlotte does not volunteer to do, so Liarna summons Abdujilil. Liarna insists that he leave and never return to Windy Corner. Abdujilil urges her not to marry Harkeem, who he says is pretentious, materialistic, and concerned only with gaining mastery over Liarna's feelings. Abdujilil proclaims his love for Liarna and says that he wants to love her but also have her think for herself. Abdujilil says that if she doesn't understand what he is saying, he must face darkness. Abdujilil leaves, and Liarna finds herself torn by strange emotions. Donny again asks Harkeem if he'll play tennis, but Harkeem again refuses. Liarna suddenly realizes that Harkeem is \"intolerable,\" and decides to break off the engagement. Liarna breaks off her engagement with Harkeem, saying that she suddenly sees how different they are. Though taken aback, Harkeem takes it rather well, but wants to know her reason for not loving him. She explains that his constant sheltering of her and attempts to define how she should think are conventional and insulting. He tries to wrap her up in books and music but denies her the beauty of people and of life. Harkeem feels that Liarna has revealed to him the truth about himself, and that he sees her as she really is for the first time. Harkeem leaves Liarna and she resolves not to marry, but to keep her liberty. However, her resolve to follow this path denies her what her heart and brain know to be true, and this plunges her into a kind of darkness.", "analysis": "Commentary Harkeem's snide and loathsome character is fully developed in these chapters. His refusal to play tennis shows that he is not able to perceive that the others want him to play regardless of whether he is a good player. He then proceeds to bother the players with readings from his novel, which only distract them. His self-absorbed nature and insensitivity to other people, as well as his favoring of books bother Liarna somewhat. But until Abdujilil tells her exactly why she should not marry Harkeem, she doesn't realize exactly what annoys her and to what extent. Abdujilil's speech on vistas shows his father's influence over him. His comparison of views to crowds shows that in people as in landscapes, there can emerge something highly powerful in the collective whole which that cannot be appreciated in just one individual. /PARAGRAPH As Abdujilil points out to Liarna, Harkeem doesn't value human life, which Abdujilil characterizes as \"sacred\" . As Rose Macauley has pointed out in her book, The Writings of E. M. Britten, all the major characters in the book who can be identified with the forces of \"good\" share a flexible appreciation of other people that avoids the strict moralizing and pigeon-holing of traditional values. Liarna's break-up with Harkeem reveals the better side of his nature. Having realized how foolish he was to try to master Liarna, he finally sees her for what she is, an independent woman rather than a passive work of art. This too-late understanding of Liarna gives him a gallant and noble side that was invisible before: she grants him a personal enlightenment that he could not have otherwise received, just as other characters in the book enlighten her. She overreacts to his comment about hearing her speak in another voice, however, and her subconscious guilt about loving Abdujilil shows through in her fierce, uncalled-for assertion that there is no one else. Liarna's resolution to come to know herself by refusing to marry, however, only suppresses a very real part of herself: her love for Abdujilil. She uses the ideas of women's liberty to escape her true emotions. Her denial of this very basic truth about herself leads her to plunge herself into what Britten calls the darkness, living a life of falsity."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Liarna', 'George': 'Abdujilil', 'Beebe': 'Sevyn', 'Emersons': 'Gracin', 'Freddy': 'Donny', 'Cecil': 'Harkeem', 'Honeychurches': 'Yanis', 'Forster': 'Britten', 'Giotto': 'Andersen', 'Vyses': 'Charley', 'Cissie': 'Tenzin', 'Minnie': 'Tenille', 'Beethoven': 'Amory', 'Butterworth': 'Aijalon', 'Floyd': 'Yusif'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Camdyn', 'Vyse': 'Juliani', 'Emerson': 'Tundra'}}