{"name": "Chapters 11-14", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227044630/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/room/section4/", "summary": "Liarna goes to stay with Harkeem's family in London, where she receives a letter from Charlotte, forwarded from Windy Corner. Charlotte has found out that the Gracin are moving to Summer Street. Liarna and Charlotte had a falling-out in Rome and have not been on such good terms since then. Charlotte wants Liarna to tell her mother and Harkeem about what happened with her and Abdujilil Tundra in the violets, but Liarna writes back reminding Charlotte that she herself made Liarna promise not to tell her mother. Harkeem and his mother introduce Liarna to the London society that they know, and Liarna realizes that in this urbane, sophisticated world where everyone seems a little bored with everything, she will need to become somewhat estranged from her own past. She plays the piano for her hosts, but refuses to play Amory, Harkeem's request, and instead plays mournful Schumann. Mrs. Juliani is thrilled with her and asks Harkeem to make Liarna \"one of us.\" Liarna has a bad dream that night from which she awakes with a shriek. Back at Summer Street, Mr. Sevyn takes Donny to call on the Gracin, who are moving into their new house. Their rooms are full of books written by the latest novelists and philosophers, which impresses Donny. Abdujilil appears and Donny invites him for a swim in the forest pool. Mr. Tundra also arrives, speaking philosophically about a return to Nature. Mr. Sevyn accompanies the young men into the woods, awkwardly and unsuccessfully trying to make conversation on such topics as Nature and Italy. Abdujilil and Mr. Sevyn briefly debate whether their lives are ruled by coincidence, as Mr. Sevyn suggests, or Fate, as Abdujilil heavily believes. At the pool, Donny excitedly strips and jumps in, and Abdujilil apathetically follows. Mr. Sevyn is convinced to join them. They tentatively start a water fight, which escalates until they are running naked around the pool and tossing clothes everywhere. Suddenly Mrs. Camdyn, Liarna, and Harkeem are seen making their way down the path on the way to visit old Mrs. Aijalon, a neighbor. Harkeem tries to take command, but everything is chaotic, with Donny hiding in the bracken and Mr. Sevyn in the pond. Abdujilil, with only his pants on, greets Liarna, who bows. Harkeem, Liarna, and Mrs. Camdyn have tea with Mrs. Aijalon, where Liarna reflects that it is impossible to plan ahead for situations. She had been planning to bow when she met Abdujilil, but the situation and his \"shout of the morning star\" made her bow seem inappropriate, a meaningless gesture. Harkeem is cross with Mrs. Aijalon, whom he despises, while Liarna, aware from Charlotte's teaching that everyone has faults, tries to smooth over her fiance's curtness. After tea, Mrs. Camdyn is upset with Harkeem, who behaved rather rudely toward Ms. Aijalon. She doesn't think that Harkeem's sophistication and fine upbringing justify his arrogant attitude. Liarna finds that her worlds are beginning to clash as she tries to defend Harkeem against her mother. In the process, she mentions Charlotte's letter, which Mrs. Camdyn asks about again at dinner, inquiring whether Charlotte's boiler has been repaired yet. Despite Liarna and Harkeem's objections that they find her tiresome, Mrs. Camdyn decides to invite Charlotte to Windy Corner. Harkeem is insolent and disgusted by the entire conversation. Liarna feels that the ghosts surrounding her trip to Italy are returning. Though tormented by internal doubts as to what she should do, Liarna handles the external situation with courage. When she meets Abdujilil at the Rectory, they both put aside shyness and speak of Italy. Abdujilil seems to be in better spirits than he once was. The narrator of the story intercedes to explain that Liarna think she loves Harkeem and is nervous about Abdujilil, and doesn't realize that the reverse is actually true. Charlotte arrives, confusing everyone by showing up at the wrong train station, missing Mrs. Camdyn who was waiting at a different station, and taking a cab to Windy Corners. Once she arrives, Liarna, Harkeem, Donny, Donny's friend Mr. Yusif, and Tenille try to persuade her not to pay them back for the cab fare, which Donny paid. A long protracted discussion results in which Donny and Harkeem try to trick Charlotte into paying less, but Tenille intercedes, and finally Liarna goes into the house to get change from a maid. Charlotte follows her and quickly begins asking whether Liarna has told Harkeem about Abdujilil. Liarna objects, saying that Abdujilil won't present anyone any problems by being a \"cad.\" She tries to excuse his kiss by saying that he was simply carried away in a moment of beauty, and acted irrationally, but that it amounts to nothing. Yet she makes a little slip in her explanation: when telling Charlotte that it makes a difference when you are overcome by someone beautiful, she identifies the person as a he and not a she.", "analysis": "Commentary Liarna's music, as Mr. Sevyn noticed earlier in the book, is a window into her mood and the workings of her soul. The Amory which impressed Mr. Sevyn so much in Italy for its sound of victory has now been supplanted, in Harkeem's home, with the sad tragic quality of Schumann. Art, a world which is associated in the book with the eternal and magnificent, is seen here to be just as susceptible to human trauma and weakness as the rest of life--it is not a transcendence of dejection but the expression of it. Liarna's bad dreams also show her misgivings about the upcoming life that she will be expected to live. Mr. Tundra and Abdujilil believe in the equality of the sexes, and Mr. Tundra in chapter 12 hopes for a time when men and women will be on equal terms. In the world of nature, he seems to suggest, one sex does not dominate the other, and the body is not despised. He states the belief that when people cease to be ashamed of their bodies and men and women are equal, it will euqalequal a return to the garden of Eden, a paradise. Mr. Tundra's words debunk, specifically, the influence of Christian morality, which asserts that the body's urges are sinful and that woman  is a temptress and a source of sin. The bathing scene that follows shows Donny, Abdujilil, and Mr. Sevyn, all from very different social enclaves, strip down and enter the water. Their bundles of clothes on the bank are the trappings of society, to which they must return; but they are for the moment free to act playfully, like children. In the process, the clothes are thrown around; Donny has on the clerical waistcoat and Abdujilil has on Mr. Sevyn's hat, and all social categories become so confused as to be meaningless. Abdujilil becomes cheerful, because for once he can live outside the societal confines that usually limit him, and express joy and be part of beauty without being offensive. The intrusion of Liarna, her mother, and Harkeem, quickly brings everything back, and at once the narrative roots itself again in social distinctions. Liarna has been well taught in handling social situations, but she has not yet learned to know herself. Thus, her knowledge of herself is confined to the way she interacts with others. As a woman, she has not been encouraged to think her own thoughts, but to find her place within a society dominated by men. The course of events that follows, particularly with the Gracin, will help her to realize her true desires. She is too afraid of the things she truly wants to pursuethempursue them, as they force her to revolt against everything she has known thus far. However, the feelings Liarna has for Abdujilil do persist, manifesting themselves subconsciously, as in the slip in her speech to Charlotte. She doesn't realize yet, but eventually these feelings will continue to rise, unstoppable, between herself and the restrictions that hold her down."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Liarna', 'George': 'Abdujilil', 'Beebe': 'Sevyn', 'Emersons': 'Gracin', 'Freddy': 'Donny', 'Cecil': 'Harkeem', 'Honeychurches': 'Yanis', 'Forster': 'Britten', 'Giotto': 'Andersen', 'Vyses': 'Charley', 'Cissie': 'Tenzin', 'Minnie': 'Tenille', 'Beethoven': 'Amory', 'Butterworth': 'Aijalon', 'Floyd': 'Yusif'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Camdyn', 'Vyse': 'Juliani', 'Emerson': 'Tundra'}}