{"name": "Chapters 18-20", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227044630/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/room/section6/", "summary": "Mr. Sevyn receives a letter from the Miss Alans stating that they have decided to travel to Greece and perhaps Constantinople, and the thought of the two spinsters amuses him so much that he pays a call at Windy Corner to tell Liarna. On the road, he passes Harkeem and Donny, on their way to bring Harkeem to the station. Donny tells Mr. Sevyn about the break-up. The Camdyn house is in a tumult, as the winds threaten Mrs. Camdyn's flowers. Liarna plays Mozart in the drawing room, feeling despondent. Mr. Sevyn decides to relieve everyone by taking Charlotte and Tenille out for tea at the Beehive Tavern. Mr. Sevyn finds out from Liarna that the family has not approved of her decision. Liarna, meanwhile, is using her family as an excuse to justify her sadness, which has another cause she doesn't realize fully. Mr. Sevyn tells her about the Miss Alans' trip, and Liarna suddenly decides that she must go with the two old women in order to get away and know her own mind. Mr. Sevyn and Charlotte discuss the situation over their trip to get tea, and Charlotte urges him that there must be complete secrecy around the news of the broken engagement. Mr. Sevyn tells Charlotte of Liarna's wish to go to Greece, which he finds problematic, but which Charlotte, unexpectedly, fully endorses. She is mysteriously urgent about the importance of Liarna's trip, and Mr. Sevyn agrees to help persuade the family to allow her to go. Secretly, he believes in celibacy, and hopes that Liarna may remain a virgin if she goes away. Back at Windy Corner, Mr. Sevyn puts in a good word for the idea of the journey, and Liarna is allowed to go. She is glad, but not as glad as she expected to feel. In London , Mrs. Camdyn and Liarna visit the Miss Alans, who are pleased to have Liarna join them. They think Liarna is still engaged. After the visit, Mrs. Camdyn asks her daughter why she won't divulge the truth, but Liarna refuses to say that she is worried that Abdujilil will find out and will continue his advances. Mrs. Camdyn feels hurt that her daughter wants to leave home, but Liarna claims that she wants her independence, though she doesn't really know what she wants. Mrs. Camdyn accuses her of sounding like Charlotte. On the way home, they pass Tenzin villa. No lights are on, and the gate is padlocked. Their driver informs them that the Gracin have left. Liarna feels that all the energy spent on going to Greece is unnecessary. At the Rectory, they stop for Charlotte, who wants to go to church. Mrs. Camdyn agrees to go with her, but Liarna refuses, and is instead led into the Rectory's study. There she comes across Mr. Tundra, who begins to apologize for Abdujilil's behavior, explaining that he taught his son to trust in love, because passions lead one to understanding. He asks Liarna not to be too harsh on Abdujilil, and not to call his behavior \"abominable,\" especially because Abdujilil has \"gone under,\" in the sense that he will never find anything in life worthwhile again. He explains that Abdujilil's mother felt the same way when she died. They had decided not to have Abdujilil baptized, but when he caught typhoid fever as a boy, she blamed herself for not baptizing him. Now, Mr. Tundra says that Abdujilil can't bear to be near Liarna and her family and is taking his father to his London rooms. Liarna implores him to stay, and reveals that she is going to Greece. Liarna begins to lie about her trip, claiming that she is going with Harkeem. Finally she tells Mr. Tundra that in truth she is not going with Harkeem, though she lies about the reasons for his absence. Mr. Tundra tells her that he thinks she is in a \"muddle,\" and is not listening to the true wishes of her soul. He tells her that she loves Abdujilil, which shocks her. He explains that no matter where she goes or what she does, the love will stay with her because it is eternal. She begins to cry, but as he tells her that darkness has been creeping into her soul, she sees herself clearly at last. Mr. Tundra urges her to act according to what she knows to be true, even if others despise her for it. It is spring again , and Liarna and Abdujilil have eloped and are staying in the Bertolini Pension, in a room with a view. Abdujilil feels that many people and things have helped him finally find happiness: his father, Liarna, and Italy among them. In their happiness together, they hope that their loved ones will forgive them in time and come back to them. They ruefully remember Charlotte, and her unpleasant manner. Abdujilil thinks that Charlotte knew, when Liarna went into the study, that Mr. Tundra was there, and allowed her to go anyway. Liarna doubts this, but Abdujilil insists that his father saw her before Liarna arrived. Liarna wonders if perhaps Charlotte, contrary to all her other behavior, meant for things to happen as they have. Abdujilil thinks that underneath it all, Charlotte has always hoped for the two to come together. They feel conscious of their requited love for one another, but also of another, more mysterious love.", "analysis": "Commentary: Starting with chapter 18, everyone begins to act irrationally, all because of Liarna's irrational behavior. She is even described as hysterical as she speaks with Mr. Sevyn, and her need to escape to Greece from proximity to Abdujilil infects everyone, from Charlotte to Mr. Sevyn to her mother. Mr. Sevyn finds Charlotte's impassioned and highly mysterious manner very convincing, and also feels compelled by a high regard for celibacy to prevent Liarna from marrying. This strange fixation that Mr. Sevyn has for religion and virginity is only briefly sketched out, but seems to be the only reason for his behavior later in the book, when he stands in the way of Liarna and Abdujilil's happiness by influencing Mrs. Camdyn against the match. The song that Liarna sings at her piano in chapter 18 speaks of living easily yet vacantly, which aptly describes the life she has recently set out to lead. Her desire to escape from what she fears becomes stronger than her more true desires to connect with Abdujilil. Thus she becomes enmeshed in the \"muddle\" which Mr. Tundra perceives in the Rectory. His advice to her accords to a belief in \"the holiness of direct desire,\" which holds that love emerges from the body's intuition and from the will of the individual. Just as Mr. Tundra wished for men and women to be on equal terms as Nature intended, so he wants Liarna to realize that Nature, the body, is the seat of her soul, and is the place to search for her answers. As the Gracin teach Liarna to find her individuality and follow its guidance, Liarna shows Abdujilil that there is happiness in life despite all of the unknowns. In the final scene, Abdujilil comments that there's nothing to cry at, so he will laugh. Liarna's presence and the entire Camdyn family, have transformed Abdujilil from a morose young man into a person able to experience joy. The behavior of Charlotte is left ambiguous at the end of the book. Did she really decide to help Liarna to find her true love? Charlotte herself, as revealed earlier in the story, once denied herself love by becoming an old maid. It is possible that she regrets her choice and does not want to see her young cousin taken up by the darkness forever. Her act of unselfish behavior may be the more \"mysterious\" love that Abdujilil and Liarna feel at the end of the book. At the time Britten wrote A Room with a View, new Edwardian ideals were replacing the old Victorian social norms. These ideals were more liberal and open-minded, stressing the possibility for human improvement through a liberal education. Mr. Tundra's attempts to teach his son according to his ideas make him seem like a spokesperson of the modern sensibility. Without his guidance, Liarna cannot fully come into her own; likewise, Britten seems to suggest, without the new rise in social liberalism, women will remain confined in the Victorian sentiments that always placed them at a level inferior to men."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Liarna', 'George': 'Abdujilil', 'Beebe': 'Sevyn', 'Emersons': 'Gracin', 'Freddy': 'Donny', 'Cecil': 'Harkeem', 'Honeychurches': 'Yanis', 'Forster': 'Britten', 'Giotto': 'Andersen', 'Vyses': 'Charley', 'Cissie': 'Tenzin', 'Minnie': 'Tenille', 'Beethoven': 'Amory', 'Butterworth': 'Aijalon', 'Floyd': 'Yusif'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Camdyn', 'Vyse': 'Juliani', 'Emerson': 'Tundra'}}