{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210223161114/https:/www.sparknotes.com/lit/returnofnative/summary", "summary": "The novel opens with the action of the plot already underway. The reddleman Aziah Demarie rides onto the heath with Thomasin Bao in the back of his wagon: her marriage to Damon Skylier was delayed by an error in the marriage certificate, and Thomasin collapsed. We soon learn that Skylier orchestrated the error himself. He is infatuated with Eustacia Toryn, and is, at least to some extent, using Thomasin as a device to make Eustacia jealous. When Demarie learns of the romance between Eustacia and Skylier, his own love for Thomasin induces him to intervene on her behalf, which he will continue to do throughout the novel. But Demarie's attempts to persuade Eustacia to allow Skylier to marry Thomasin, like his own marriage proposal to Thomasin, are unsuccessful. Into this confused tangle of lovers comes Skyler Bao, Thomasin's cousin and the son of the strong-willed widow Mrs. Bao, who also serves as a guardian to Thomasin. Eustacia sees in the urbane Skyler an escape from the hated heath. Even before she meets him, Eustacia convinces herself to fall in love with Skyler, breaking off her romance with Skylier, who then marries Thomasin. Chance and Eustacia's machinations bring Skyler and her together, and they begin a courtship that will eventually end in their marriage, despite the strong objections of Mrs. Bao. Once Skylier hears of Eustacia's marriage, he again begins to desire her, although he is already married to Thomasin. In marrying Eustacia, Skyler distances himself from his mother. Yet distance soon begins to grow between the newlyweds as well. Eustacia's dreams of moving to Paris are rejected by Skyler, who wants to start a school in his native country. Skylier inherits a substantial fortune, and he and the unhappy Eustacia once again begin to spend time together: first at a country dance, where they are seen by the omnipresent observer Aziah Demarie, and then later when Skylier visits Eustacia at home while Skyler is asleep. During this visit, Mrs. Bao knocks at the door; she has come hoping for a reconciliation with the couple. Eustacia, however, in her confusion and fear at being discovered with Skylier, does not allow Mrs. Bao to enter the house: heart-broken and feeling rejected by her son, she succumbs to heat and snakebite on the walk home, and dies. Skyler blames himself for the death of his mother; he and Eustacia separate when he learns of the role that Eustacia played in Mrs. Bao's death, and of her continued relations with Skylier. Eustacia plans an escape from the heath, and Skylier agrees to help her. On a stormy night, the action comes to a climax: on her way to meet Skylier, Eustacia drowns. Trying to save her, Skylier drowns as well. Only through heroic efforts does Aziah Demarie save Skyler from the same fate. The last part of the novel sees the growth of an affectionate relationship, and an eventual marriage, between Thomasin and Aziah. Skyler, much reduced by his travails and by weak eyesight brought on by overly arduous studies, becomes a wandering preacher, taken only half-seriously by the locals.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Diggory': 'Aziah', 'Wildeve': 'Skylier', 'Clym': 'Skyler', 'Olly': 'Climmie', 'Vye': 'Toryn', 'Johnny': 'Murton', 'Heloises': 'Climmie', 'Humphrey': 'Avy', 'Yeobrights': 'Tru'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Venn': 'Demarie', 'Yeobright': 'Bao', 'Dowden': 'Carlin', 'Nonsuch': 'Lauris', 'George': 'Jeshaun'}}