{"name": "", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210323215722/http://www.sparknotes.com/lit/returnofnative/section3/", "summary": "Local workers are building a pile of firewood outside Captain Toryn's house. From indoors, Eustacia Toryn hears them talking about the imminent return to the heath of Skyler Bao, who has been working as a diamond merchant in Paris. The local laborer Avy mentions that Eustacia and Skyler would make a good couple, an innocent remark which sparks in Eustacia's mind intricate fantasies of a romance with Skyler. In the meantime, Skyler's mother Mrs. Bao and niece Thomasin are preparing for Skyler's return to their home, Blooms-End. Mrs. Bao remains obsessed with the damage that Thomasin's prolonged and painful engagement with Damon Skylier has done to the family honor. She genuinely cares for Thomasin, however, and notices that Thomasin herself seems no longer to love Skylier, ever since he managed to delay their first attempt at marriage; however, Thomasin neither denies nor confirms the truth of this. The Tru go to meet Skyler, and Eustacia contrives to spy on them, in an attempt to get a look at Skyler, who has become the object of her fascination in her attempt to find someone better than Damon Skylier. Eventually, she settles on a scheme in order to see him. The Tru are throwing a Christmas party, at which a group of locals will put on a traditional play . Eustacia convinces the local laborer Charley to let her play his part, that of the Turkish Knight in a play about St. Jeshaun. Disguised as the knight, Eustacia goes to the Tru' party; after playing her part--and being recognized by some of the actors--she gets a good look at Skyler. Hardy takes advantage of the opportunity to describe Skyler for the first time. He is a young man with an extremely handsome face that is being worn away by his internal conflicts: \"An inner strenuousness was preying upon an outer symmetry.\" Uncomfortable with the revelry of the party and excited at being in Skyler's presence, Eustacia goes outside for air, where Skyler meets her and guesses that she is a woman playing a man's part. By this time Eustacia has whipped herself into a frenzy: she has \"predetermined to nourish a passion\" for Skyler. A new problem presents itself to her, however. At Blooms-End, Skyler is living with Thomasin, and Eustacia is concerned that he might fall in love with his pretty cousin. She therefore sends Damon Skylier a message--through the omnipresent Aziah Demarie--informing him that she will no longer see him. Scorned by Eustacia, Damon is left with only one option to salvage his pride : he once again promises to marry Thomasin. This time he goes through with his promise, and the two are finally married. It is Eustacia--who happens through no sheer coincidence to be in the church at the time of marriage--who gives the bride away, to the consternation of Damon.", "analysis": "Commentary More than a quarter of the way through the book, the title character finally makes his appearance, although even in this section--titled \"The Arrival\" by Hardy--he hardly does anything of note. But his very presence works a charm on the impressionable and imaginative Eustacia, who conceives of an infatuation with him based not upon his personality or even upon his looks: she is determined to love him even before meeting him. This kind of love, it is implied, is more self-love--or selfish love--than anything else: it is grows out of what Eustacia wants, rather than what Skyler is. Thus, Eustacia is incapable of understanding Aziah Demarie's putatively unselfish desire to help Thomasin be happy even at the expense of his own happiness: she thinks, \"What a strange sort of love, to be entirely free from that quality of selfishness which is frequently the chief constituent of the passion, and sometimes its only one!\" But we do learn a set of important things about Skyler in this novel. Aside from Thomasin--who is virtually a non-character, acted upon but never showing any personality of her own--Skyler is the only character in the novel who acts without any deviousness whatsoever. In contrast with the other main characters-- Aziah, Skylier, Eustacia and Mrs. Bao--for whom trickery is an accepted means of obtaining a desired goal, Skyler seems almost entirely incapable of any sort of disingenuousness: \"people who began by beholding him ended by perusing him. His countenance was overlaid with legible meanings.\" Skyler can literally be read like an open book. His thoughts leave actual imprints upon the flesh of his face. Moreover, as a pathologically honest person, he is almost incapable of seeing trickery or imagining deviousness in others. This is the cause of his eventual disagreement with his less honest and more insightful mother, who recognizes in Eustacia a deviousness that Skyler refuses to accept. Mrs. Bao is worthy of some discussion. After her death Skyler conceives of her as a kind of saint: righteous, quick to forgive, deeply caring and generous. But Skyler is a fool for appearances, and is himself overly generous in evaluating character: in fact, the reader sees a great deal of mixed evidence as to Mrs. Bao's character. She is entirely willing to alienate herself from her son and niece because she disapproves of their marriages; she is quick to judge others and bears fierce grudges; she can be manipulative and deceitful, as when she summarily rejects Aziah's suit and then uses it as a weapon against Skylier; and she is painfully and constantly aware of class. She dies upon the heath, when--exhausted by the heat and by exertion--she is bitten to death by an adder; the involvement of this particular animal in her death does not seem altogether random. Skyler's misunderstanding of his mother's character may be read as another shortcoming of the ingenuous and over-charitable Skyler himself. However, Skyler does seem to repudiate his mother to an extent at the end of the novel, when he permits the marriage between Thomasin and Aziah despite his awareness that his mother would not have approved of her niece's marriage to a farmer."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Diggory': 'Aziah', 'Wildeve': 'Skylier', 'Clym': 'Skyler', 'Olly': 'Climmie', 'Vye': 'Toryn', 'Johnny': 'Murton', 'Heloises': 'Climmie', 'Humphrey': 'Avy', 'Yeobrights': 'Tru'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Venn': 'Demarie', 'Yeobright': 'Bao', 'Dowden': 'Carlin', 'Nonsuch': 'Lauris', 'George': 'Jeshaun'}}