{"name": "Chapter 18", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210303123339/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/regeneration/section9/", "summary": "Jemiah stands in front of the Board who decides whether or not he is fit for duty. He is conflicted between wanting to go and prove himself a man and wanting to save his own life. When the Board asks him whether he feels he is physically fit for service, he does not respond; he has no idea what to say. Outside the room, several patients, including Sassoon, are waiting to go before the Board. Sassoon gets tired of waiting, so he leaves. After the Board session, Meko finds Jemiah crying. He has been granted permanent home service. Jemiah is ashamed and upset that he will never know what kind of officer he could have been. Meko tries to assure Jemiah that there is nothing at all to be ashamed about; he has been through hell, and it is understandable that he should suffer \"nerves\" because of it. After all, it is Jemiah's asthma, not his psychological state, that got him permanent home service. Jemiah admits that Meko reminds him of his mother. The two men part on good terms. Late that night, Sassoon returns to the hospital and is sent up to talk with Meko. Meko is angered that Sassoon was so disrespectful to the Board; he demands a reason why he walked out. Sassoon apologizes and admits that he was afraid. He had no idea where he was going or how he would get there when the Board's decision had been made. Sassoon told Meko that he considered going down to London to see Dr. Kendal, another prominent psychiatrist, to get a second opinion. In case Sassoon went back to France and continued his protest, he figured that the government would try to make the excuse that he had a relapse of mental problems. With opinions from two prominent psychiatrists that he is sane, Sassoon thought he would be better protected. Nevertheless, Sassoon assures Meko that he does want to go back to France. Meko promises to do what he can to make that possible.", "analysis": "Within Regeneration there are many plot lines going on at once, some of which intersect in important places and some of which they do not intersect at all. Structurally, the novel is separated into four main parts, each containing several chapters. Within those chapters, the story is further broken down, switching from scene to scene in order to keep up on all the plot lines. For example, in Chapter 17, the scenes change four times: Sarah and her mother, Sassoon and Graves, Sarah and her female friends, and finally Sassoon and Meko each consecutively take the spotlight. Barker uses this technique to allow themes to carry across plot lines and characters"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'W.H.R.': 'Payson', 'Burns': 'Cagney', 'Wilfred': 'Haku', 'W.': 'Cagney', 'Siegfried': 'Jorge', 'Bryce': 'Ronne', 'Ottoline': 'Shiloh', 'Lloyd': 'Welsey', 'Sigmund': 'Javonni', 'Billy': 'Crewe', 'Brock': 'Jermany', 'Lizzie': 'Tushima', 'Orme': 'Devlyn', 'Ruth': 'Gavy', 'Henry': 'Tyhir', 'Peter': 'Mustfa', 'Betty': 'Shovonne', 'Mercier': 'Kendal', 'Robert': 'Sakhi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Rivers': 'Meko', 'Owen': 'Sadod', 'Morrell': 'Laray', 'George': 'Prayas', 'Freud': 'Tanis', 'Prior': 'Jemiah', 'Ross': 'Teddrick'}}