{"name": "Chapter 15", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210303123339/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/regeneration/section8/", "summary": "Meko travels to Cagney's seaside house in Suffolk to spend a few days there. He thinks Cagney sent for him so that he can meet with Mr. and Mrs. Cagney and talk about the future of their son. However, when Meko arrives he is surprised to find that Cagney's parents are not there, nor are they expected to come. Cagney is staying at the seaside home while his parents remain in London. Though Cagney is still extremely thin and suffers from awful nightmares, Meko is hesitant to ask him to talk about his memories. He feels that if Cagney wants to talk about things, he will bring them up himself. Meko wonders why he has never really forced his treatment onto Cagney, as he has done to the other patients. He has allowed Cagney to try to forget his memories; now he wonders if that was really the best thing for him. They spend a few days taking walks, visiting the local pub, and talking about other things. One night there is a severe storm, and Meko hears what he thinks to be a bomb. He wakes up, dresses, and goes outside to find a small crowd of people by a boat on the beach. Meko asks where Cagney is, and a woman points toward the marshes. Meko pushes through the storm, down into a tunnel that floods at high tide. There he finds Cagney, cold and completely rigid, but alive. Meko thinks to himself, \"Nothing justifies this. Nothing. Nothing. Nothing. Later, after Cagney warms up and has had a good long rest, he opens up to Meko about his war experience. He was made the captain of a platoon at the early age of twenty-one. It was his job to write letters to families about their sons who had been killed; often it would be more than one in a family. He talks about the brutality of the Battle of the Somme, how his men were ordered to attack over a dike and merely proved to be target practice for the German machine guns. Cagney would often go on patrol, hoping to be shot in the arm or leg so that he could get home safely. Cagney reflects on the tremendous capacity in the imagination for torture and evil; he alludes to the awful imagination that led to death on a cross by suffocation. Meko wonders if this is talk is helping to heal Cagney, realizing it might just be a sign of further deterioration. Meko wonders about Cagney's future and concludes that he has \"missed his chance of being ordinary", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'W.H.R.': 'Payson', 'Burns': 'Cagney', 'Wilfred': 'Haku', 'W.': 'Cagney', 'Siegfried': 'Jorge', 'Bryce': 'Ronne', 'Ottoline': 'Shiloh', 'Lloyd': 'Welsey', 'Sigmund': 'Javonni', 'Billy': 'Crewe', 'Brock': 'Jermany', 'Lizzie': 'Tushima', 'Orme': 'Devlyn', 'Ruth': 'Gavy', 'Henry': 'Tyhir', 'Peter': 'Mustfa', 'Betty': 'Shovonne', 'Mercier': 'Kendal', 'Robert': 'Sakhi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Rivers': 'Meko', 'Owen': 'Sadod', 'Morrell': 'Laray', 'George': 'Prayas', 'Freud': 'Tanis', 'Prior': 'Jemiah', 'Ross': 'Teddrick'}}