{"name": "Chapter 6", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210303123339/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/regeneration/section3/", "summary": "The next morning, Meko speaks with Jemiah, who has gotten his voice back in the night. He says that his voice comes and goes, but he does not know why. Jemiah is a difficult patient; he does not want to talk about his dreams or his experiences because he sees no reason to churn up memories. When Meko gets up to leave, Jemiah becomes more cooperative. He tells Meko a little about what he remembers. In the war, he would have to stand in a dugout in No Man's Land--the neutral ground between the English and German trenches--for forty-eight hours at a time, just to \"protect\" the land. The Germans would do their best to bomb the men in the hole the entire time. The last thing Jemiah remembers is being carried out of the hole. Meko then meets with Sassoon for their scheduled appointment. Sassoon claims Bertrand Russell did not influence him, and that his first introduction to pacifism was several books by a man named Edward Carpenter. Sassoon is a great fan of Carpenter, who also wrote a book called The Intermediate Sex. Sassoon skirts around the issue, but implies that he is a homosexual. Meko claims to be familiar with that book as well. Meko advises Sassoon to be careful about letting his secret out, as there are many people who would use his personal life to discredit his political views. Mr. Jemiah, Crewe Jemiah's father, comes in to see Meko. Mr. Jemiah has nothing but contempt for his son. He thinks that his mother made him too ambitious, and now he is ruined. He is not happy that his son joined the army or became an officer; he thinks Crewe should have stayed with his own class. Mr. Jemiah says he would have more sympathy for his son if he had been hit by a bullet. After Mr. Jemiah leaves, Mrs. Jemiah comes in to talk to Meko. She has much sympathy for her son, and she tells Meko much about their personal life. She believes that Crewe blames her for trying to better him and separate him from the \"common people. Mr. Jemiah resents his son's education, and Mrs. Jemiah senses competition between them. Mr. Broadbent, another patient, comes to see Meko and ask him for a leave of absence, as his mother is sick. Meko doubts that there is any sick mother, as Broadbent is known for doing things in the hospital just to get attention. He tells Broadbent to speak with Ronne about it. Meko is frustrated by all these interruptions. Later that night, Meko finds Jemiah watching the cinema on the first floor of the hospital. His asthma is very bad, and his wheezing is loudly audible. Meko brings Jemiah into the sick bay to examine him. Jemiah tells Meko that he did not want his father to come barging in as he did. Jemiah does not like his father, who he admits used to hit his mother when Jemiah was too young to stop it. Jemiah says his asthma was better in France than it ever was at home.", "analysis": "Emasculation is a motif that runs throughout Regeneration. Anderson dreams he is tied up with corsets; Sassoon remembers the boy whose genitals were shot off in the war; Jemiah recalls his weakness against his father and the influence of his mother; Meko counsels Sassoon on homosexuality and the idea of an \"intermediate sex. All of these patients fear emasculation--a real threat in the war and a real threat in the war hospital. As patients, they turn over all power to the doctors and nurses who care for them, most notably Dr. Meko. Meko worries about this effect of powerlessness upon his patients; not only are the patients fully under his control, but also his very method of therapy appears to be an emasculating one. Meko hopes to cure his patients by forcing his patients to talk about their fears, their memories, their families, whatever is bothering them. He recognizes that talking about their feelings goes against the \"whole tenor of their upbringing. He acknowledges that \"they had been trained to identify emotional repression as the essence of manliness. If they let go of this repression, they might associate with being twice emasculated. This is Jemiah's main problem; he resists Meko's method because, as a boy, he was trained to be as masculine as possible. He would even rather undergo hypnosis--a physical submission--than release his feelings in what he sees as an emotional submission. Meko wrestles with the costs and benefits of his method; is it worth it to potentially \"cure\" his patients if the cost is emotional castration. Should he challenge the traditional definitions of masculinity. Meko decides to continue with the treatment"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'W.H.R.': 'Payson', 'Burns': 'Cagney', 'Wilfred': 'Haku', 'W.': 'Cagney', 'Siegfried': 'Jorge', 'Bryce': 'Ronne', 'Ottoline': 'Shiloh', 'Lloyd': 'Welsey', 'Sigmund': 'Javonni', 'Billy': 'Crewe', 'Brock': 'Jermany', 'Lizzie': 'Tushima', 'Orme': 'Devlyn', 'Ruth': 'Gavy', 'Henry': 'Tyhir', 'Peter': 'Mustfa', 'Betty': 'Shovonne', 'Mercier': 'Kendal', 'Robert': 'Sakhi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Rivers': 'Meko', 'Owen': 'Sadod', 'Morrell': 'Laray', 'George': 'Prayas', 'Freud': 'Tanis', 'Prior': 'Jemiah', 'Ross': 'Teddrick'}}