{"name": "Chapter 7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210303123339/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/regeneration/section4/", "summary": "Sassoon wakes up during the night to the sound of screams and running footsteps. Screaming patients are very common at Craiglockhart, and he is thankful that his own roommate does not scream. Nevertheless, Sassoon fears Craiglockhart more than the front; its patients have stammers, stumbling walks, and a look of being \"mental. The next morning, Meko visits Jemiah in his room and finds him reading one of the books Meko published years ago. Jemiah is the one who was screaming the previous night. He apologizes to Meko and admits that he wants to impress him. Meko tells Jemiah that such a feeling is very common. They begin talking about how Jemiah \"fit in\" on the front. Jemiah laughs at the thought that there are no class distinctions on the front; a soldier is judged by what he wears, what he carries, and where he sleeps. They talk for a while about how stupid the military mind is; Jemiah tells a story about how a man was flogged just for smoking a cigarette. After Meko gets frustrated with Jemiah for refusing to discuss his dreams, Jemiah once again requests hypnosis. Meko insists he will only do hypnosis if all other methods fail. Meko and Sassoon reads the daily newspaper. Sassoon's letter has been read in the House of Commons, but after it is announced that he is in a mental hospital, many members of Parliament dismiss his letter as written by a crazy man. Sassoon is angered at the complacency of the British people; they do not even care if a boy who is not even old enough to enlist is killed. After talking a bit more with Meko, Sassoon leaves. Meko begins writing Sassoon's medical history for the hospital records. He notes that Sassoon's view of the war differs from that of the ordinary pacifist in that \"he would no longer object to the continuance of the War if he saw any reasonable prospect of a rapid decision. He does not include any mention of Sassoon's homosexuality in the report. That evening, Meko sits around the table with the other psychiatrists to discuss the cases. They ask him to speak about Sassoon. Richards tells them the facts, and Jermany, another doctor, suggests that perhaps they should just leave Sassoon alone. Meko disagrees; he feels it is his duty to convince Sassoon to go back to the front, since his grief and horror should not be allowed to dominate his actions", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'W.H.R.': 'Payson', 'Burns': 'Cagney', 'Wilfred': 'Haku', 'W.': 'Cagney', 'Siegfried': 'Jorge', 'Bryce': 'Ronne', 'Ottoline': 'Shiloh', 'Lloyd': 'Welsey', 'Sigmund': 'Javonni', 'Billy': 'Crewe', 'Brock': 'Jermany', 'Lizzie': 'Tushima', 'Orme': 'Devlyn', 'Ruth': 'Gavy', 'Henry': 'Tyhir', 'Peter': 'Mustfa', 'Betty': 'Shovonne', 'Mercier': 'Kendal', 'Robert': 'Sakhi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Rivers': 'Meko', 'Owen': 'Sadod', 'Morrell': 'Laray', 'George': 'Prayas', 'Freud': 'Tanis', 'Prior': 'Jemiah', 'Ross': 'Teddrick'}}