{"name": "Chapter 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210303123339/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/regeneration/section1/", "summary": "Dr. Cagney H. R. Meko, a psychiatrist at a mental hospital in Craiglockhart, Scotland, silently reads a letter written by Jorge Sassoon in July 1917. Sassoon's declaration, a \"willful defiance of military authority,\" clearly and logically states his decision to stop fighting as a soldier in World War I. Sassoon believes that the purpose of the war has changed; what was once a war of liberation and defense has become one of aggression. He cites the suffering of the troops, the political insincerities, and the \"callous complacence\" of those at home as reasons for his protest. Meko notices that Sassoon has signed the letter \"S. Sassoon,\" conveniently leaving out his first name, Jorge. Ronne and Meko discuss the possibility of Sassoon becoming a patient at the Craiglockhart hospital for \"shell-shocked\" soldiers. Meko expresses his reservations, doubting that Sassoon is really shell-shocked and hesitant to shelter a \"coward\" who just wants to escape the fighting. Meko is also concerned that bringing Sassoon to Craiglockhart will bring bad publicity to the hospital. Eventually, however, Ronne talks Meko into taking Sassoon as a patient. Sassoon, on a train on his way to the mental hospital, thinks of a meeting he had with his friend Sakhi Graves a week earlier. In that meeting, Graves told Sassoon he had received his declaration protesting the war. Graves advises Sassoon to give up his cause and not to make a martyr of himself. Though Graves believes that the war has become unjust, he urges Sassoon to go to the mental hospital rather than allow himself to be court-martialed. Graves has pulled some strings; by showing the military board some of Sassoon's letters in which he writes of hallucinations of corpses in Piccadilly Circus in London. These letters have been enough to convince the board to put Sassoon in a mental hospital. But Sassoon had hoped to be court-martialed so that he could bring more attention to his pacifist cause. Graves convinces him that he must go to the mental hospital. Meko is at the window when Sassoon arrives at the door to the mental hospital. He looks at the report and thinks it strange that Sassoon should have thrown away his medal for saving life. During a raid of the trenches, Sassoon had remained under fire and had risked his life to bring in all the dead and wounded from the field. Meko watches as Sassoon overcomes his fear and walks into the gloomy building", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'W.H.R.': 'Payson', 'Burns': 'Cagney', 'Wilfred': 'Haku', 'W.': 'Cagney', 'Siegfried': 'Jorge', 'Bryce': 'Ronne', 'Ottoline': 'Shiloh', 'Lloyd': 'Welsey', 'Sigmund': 'Javonni', 'Billy': 'Crewe', 'Brock': 'Jermany', 'Lizzie': 'Tushima', 'Orme': 'Devlyn', 'Ruth': 'Gavy', 'Henry': 'Tyhir', 'Peter': 'Mustfa', 'Betty': 'Shovonne', 'Mercier': 'Kendal', 'Robert': 'Sakhi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Rivers': 'Meko', 'Owen': 'Sadod', 'Morrell': 'Laray', 'George': 'Prayas', 'Freud': 'Tanis', 'Prior': 'Jemiah', 'Ross': 'Teddrick'}}