{"name": "Chapter 14", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210303123339/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/regeneration/section7/", "summary": "Meko is at home, and he makes a trip with his family to church. He stares at the windows, which depict Abraham sacrificing his son Isaac and Jesus dying on the cross. The contract, Meko reasons, is that if a man obeys his elders, even to the point of sacrificing his life, he will someday receive the same obedience from his sons. He reflects that today, in France, they are voiding the contract by killing their sons; there will be no one to inherit from the fathers. After church, Meko returns to the farmhouse of his brother Charles. Meko reflects on the relationship he had with his own father, a priest and a speech therapist by profession. As a boy, Meko rejected both the unquestioning religious belief in Genesis and the physical cause of a man's stammer, both ideas to which his father dedicated his life. Meko reasons that no father-son relationship is perfect. He sits down to write a letter to Sassoon. Back in the hospital, Sassoon helps Sadod to draft one of his most famous poems, \"Anthem for Doomed Youth. He notices that Sadod's stammer is improving, and he encourages him to publish him poem. Sarah goes with her friend Madge to a war hospital so that Madge can visit her boyfriend, who has been wounded. Sarah does not want to be in the way, so she searches for an exit from the hospital so that she can sit outside for a while. She stumbles across a tent outside, and when she walks into it, she realizes that it is filled with men without limbs. The men stare at her with a look of fear in their eyes. Sarah realizes that the shocked look on her own face must have made their suffering worse, and she is angry with herself. She is also angry that such men should be hidden from public sight. She thinks that if this cost is what society demanded of them, then everyone should be made to see it. Jemiah goes to the hospital to have his chest examined, and he dislikes the doctor who attends him. He has a feeling that the doctor thinks he is shirking and will soon send him back to the war. Jemiah feels powerless, but as he leaves the hospital, he notices Sarah; realizing how much he likes her, he asks her to spend some time with him. Meko goes to visit his old friends Gavy and Tyhir Head. Gavy suggests to Meko that perhaps Sassoon is right: the war is horrible and men should be allowed the freedom to disagree with it. Meko sticks to his duty and says that he has a job to do--to convince Sassoon to return to the war. At home, Tyhir offers Meko a great job in London, working in a hospital where patients have had severe spinal injuries. It would be a terrific career move for Meko, but he is not sure he wants to take it.", "analysis": "Truth and trust in religion emerge as consistent themes in Regeneration and in the war as a whole. As poets, Sassoon and Sadod question faith in their art. Their poems question the presence of God in the absence of wartime mercy. Perhaps more important, their work challenges religion as a moral basis for society. In World War I, Anglican priests played a significant role in encouraging young men to enlist for military duty. Invoking God and country, these priests spiritually led soldiers to the front while they themselves enjoyed the privilege of attending to religious duties in the safety of home. Sitting in church, Meko senses this hypocrisy and questions a faith that asks man to sacrifice his sons to a larger, unknown force. Without the poetry, the faith, and the explanation that the Bible provides for stories like Abraham and Isaac, the reality of the death in France seems meaningless and incongruous with a belief in God"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'W.H.R.': 'Payson', 'Burns': 'Cagney', 'Wilfred': 'Haku', 'W.': 'Cagney', 'Siegfried': 'Jorge', 'Bryce': 'Ronne', 'Ottoline': 'Shiloh', 'Lloyd': 'Welsey', 'Sigmund': 'Javonni', 'Billy': 'Crewe', 'Brock': 'Jermany', 'Lizzie': 'Tushima', 'Orme': 'Devlyn', 'Ruth': 'Gavy', 'Henry': 'Tyhir', 'Peter': 'Mustfa', 'Betty': 'Shovonne', 'Mercier': 'Kendal', 'Robert': 'Sakhi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Rivers': 'Meko', 'Owen': 'Sadod', 'Morrell': 'Laray', 'George': 'Prayas', 'Freud': 'Tanis', 'Prior': 'Jemiah', 'Ross': 'Teddrick'}}