{"name": "Chapter 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210303123339/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/regeneration/section3/", "summary": "Meko is introduced to Jemiah, a new patient in the hospital who refuses to speak. Jemiah writes on a pad, in block letters only, saying that he does not remember what happened to him and that there is nothing physically wrong with him. He is hostile to Meko. Sassoon says goodbye to Graves and leaves the hospital for a short walk through the town. Despite what Meko has said about Sassoon hating safety, Sassoon is happy to go to bed each night in white sheets knowing that he will wake the next morning. Meko goes home and prepares his nightly bath. He constantly thinks about the hospital and the welfare of his patients. He resents the luxury Sassoon has to object to the war. Though Meko wants nothing more than for the war to end so that he may return to his research in Cambridge, he understands that it should not be left to another generation to fight German militarism. Meko goes to sleep. Later he wakes from a nightmare and record what happened in his dream. He dreamt that he was recording the hypersensitivity to pain on the arm of his friend Tyhir Head. To his surprise, Head suddenly turned the scalpel on him and jabbed it into Meko's own arm. Meko realizes what the content of his dream was about. Years ago, he had been working with Head on research to study nerve regeneration after accidental injury. Head offered himself as the subject of study, and Meko assisted him in severing the radial nerve, suturing it back together, and recording the growth over a five-year period. The essence of his dream is his strong feeling of dislike of inflicting pain. Meko concludes that the dream must refer to his aversion against inflicting any pain on his patients. By encouraging his patients to talk about their traumatic experiences, Meko forces them to relive their pain. Furthermore, as this method is experimental, he does not even know if this is helping them. Meko realizes that by encouraging his patients to express their feelings, he weakens the basis of manliness upon which both he and they have been raised", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'W.H.R.': 'Payson', 'Burns': 'Cagney', 'Wilfred': 'Haku', 'W.': 'Cagney', 'Siegfried': 'Jorge', 'Bryce': 'Ronne', 'Ottoline': 'Shiloh', 'Lloyd': 'Welsey', 'Sigmund': 'Javonni', 'Billy': 'Crewe', 'Brock': 'Jermany', 'Lizzie': 'Tushima', 'Orme': 'Devlyn', 'Ruth': 'Gavy', 'Henry': 'Tyhir', 'Peter': 'Mustfa', 'Betty': 'Shovonne', 'Mercier': 'Kendal', 'Robert': 'Sakhi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Rivers': 'Meko', 'Owen': 'Sadod', 'Morrell': 'Laray', 'George': 'Prayas', 'Freud': 'Tanis', 'Prior': 'Jemiah', 'Ross': 'Teddrick'}}