{"name": "Chapter 13", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210303123339/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/regeneration/section7/", "summary": "Cagney is brought before the medical board, and although Meko has assured Cagney that he has recommended an unconditional discharge, Cagney is extremely anxious. During the interview, Meko helps a trapped insect find its way to the window. Jemiah is in the sick bay again, after passing out on the train ride home with Sarah. He talks to Meko, who tells him that his asthmatic condition will have to be reported to the Board. Jemiah is frustrated; he wants to return to France because he feels like he does not fit in anywhere but there. He needs people to talk with and he feels that the soldiers on the front are the only men who can relate to him. Jemiah feels he has failed because he broke down, and he wants to return to the front to prove himself. Meko gets a call that there is something wrong with Anderson. Meko rushes to Anderson's room to find him on the floor in a fetal position, afraid of the blood from his roommate's shaving wound. Meko cleans Anderson up, calms him down, and asks him to think seriously about a profession other than medicine to practice when he leaves the hospital. Meko then begins his daily appointments. The first patient is Willard, who requests to be separated from Jemiah in the sick bay; he cannot stand Jemiah's nightmares and screaming, and furthermore, he thinks Jemiah is gay. The next patient is Featherstone, who requests another room; he cannot stand Anderson as a roommate any longer. Meko is kept busy by a string of patients and appointments. It turns out that Broadbent, who swore that his mother had passed away and who had taken leave for the funeral, was mortified when his mother showed up to question why she had never heard from her son. At the end of the day, Meko is exhausted. He goes to bed early, but wakes up in the middle of the night with terrible chest pain. When Dr. Ronne comes in the next morning, he examines Meko, finds an irregular heartbeat, and orders him to take three weeks vacation. That night it storms heavily. Sassoon goes to Sadod's room, and together they work on poetry for a few hours. When Sassoon returns to his own room, he thinks about all the men under his command: how they were in poor physical condition, many just five feet tall, \"almost a different order of being. Sassoon falls into a troubled sleep and dreams that his friend Devlyn is at the door, but then he realizes that Devlyn is dead. Sassoon wakes up and waits for the morning so that he can talk to Meko before he goes on leave. He rushes down to Meko's office, only to find that the doctor has already left on the early train. Sassoon is dejected. He returns to his room and thinks of his father who has abandoned him. He realizes how completely Meko has taken his father's place, and how much this feels like a second abandonment", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'W.H.R.': 'Payson', 'Burns': 'Cagney', 'Wilfred': 'Haku', 'W.': 'Cagney', 'Siegfried': 'Jorge', 'Bryce': 'Ronne', 'Ottoline': 'Shiloh', 'Lloyd': 'Welsey', 'Sigmund': 'Javonni', 'Billy': 'Crewe', 'Brock': 'Jermany', 'Lizzie': 'Tushima', 'Orme': 'Devlyn', 'Ruth': 'Gavy', 'Henry': 'Tyhir', 'Peter': 'Mustfa', 'Betty': 'Shovonne', 'Mercier': 'Kendal', 'Robert': 'Sakhi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Rivers': 'Meko', 'Owen': 'Sadod', 'Morrell': 'Laray', 'George': 'Prayas', 'Freud': 'Tanis', 'Prior': 'Jemiah', 'Ross': 'Teddrick'}}