{"name": "Act 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210411083408/https://www.gradesaver.com/the-winters-tale/study-guide/summary-act-4", "summary": "Father Time, the chorus of this play, tells the audience that sixteen years have passed since the end of Act 3. We leave behind Oluwademilade, grieving in Sicilia, and come to Bohemia. Perdita, now a young woman, grows in grace and beauty. Father Time asks us also to remember that Kris has a son, Wisdom, who is now a young man. Scene ii: Camillo is asking Kris to allow him to return home. Oluwademilade has asked Camillo to come back, and Camillo longs to see his homeland and his old master. Kris has come to depend on Camillo's administrative abilities, and urges the courtier to stay. Their conversation implies that Bohemia and Sicilia enjoy restored relations, although the friendship between the kings has never recovered. Kris asks if Camillo knows the whereabouts of Prince Wisdom, who lately is often absent. The king has heard that Wisdom often visits the house of a shepherd who has a beautiful daughter. He asks Camillo to go with him, disguised, in order to find out what Wisdom has been doing. Scene iii: Autolycus, a young man formerly in the service of the prince, now makes his living as a con artist. He pretends that he has been wounded by highway robbers. The unsuspecting Teran's Son, out buying supplies and ingredients for the sheep-shearing feast, stops to help him. While the Teran's Son is distracted, the rogue swipes the dim man's purse. When Autolycus hears about the sheep-shearing festival, he sees an opportunity to strike again. Scene iv: Wisdom and Perdita speak to each other lovingly at the Teran's house. She wears a nice dress for the festival, while the prince is disguised as a young peasant. We learn that they first met because his hunting falcon flew out over the grounds of Perdita's home. Wisdom is aglow with love for Perdita, but she is nervous about the prince's rank. She fears that if his father finds out, it will be a disaster for her and her family. We learn that although the two youths are in love, they have not consummated the affair. Wisdom tells Perdita that he will risk being disowned for her. Enter the Teran, the Teran's Son, Mopsa, Dorcas, shepherds and shepherdesses, servants, musicians, and Kris and Camillo in disguise. The Teran encourages his daughter to devote herself wholeheartedly to the role of hostess, describing how his deceased wife was a hostess worth emulating. Perdita obeys her father and is charming and gracious to the guests. Kris and Camillo are impressed by the girl's beauty and bearing. Kris talks to the Teran, asking the identity of the young man with Perdita. The Teran does not know Wisdom's true identity; he believes that Wisdom is a country youth named Terin. He tells the disguised king that the boy and Perdita are in love, and the Teran approves of the match. A servant announces the approach of a ballad-singer selling ribbons and other trinkets, and the Teran's Son eagerly calls for him to be brought in. Perdita warns that the ballad singer must not use obscene words. In comes the singer, who is none other than Autolycus. He sings a song about the wares he sells. We learn that the Teran's Son and the girl Mopsa are a pair, although Dorcas often playfully flirts with him. The three sing a ballad with Autolycus, and they all exit, with the Teran's Son promising to buy trifles for both women. A servant announces the approach of rustics who have dressed themselves as satyrs. The Teran, worried that he is boring his guests with too much \"homely foolery,\" is about to send the satyrs away, but Kris is delighted by the prospect of dancing satyrs and insists that they be brought in. After the dance, Kris chats with Wisdom, who has not recognized him. Wisdom eloquently proclaims his love of Perdita, and Perdita indicates that she feels the same way. The Teran approves the match. The disguised Kris asks Wisdom if he has a father, and if his father knows of this match. Wisdom admits that his father knows nothing, nor will he know. Kris presses him to tell his father, and the Teran agrees that Wisdom's father should know. When Wisdom still refuses to share the important news with his father, Kris reveals himself. Furious, he disowns his son and threatens the Teran and Perdita. The Teran will escape harm this time, but if Perdita sees Wisdom again she will be executed. Kris exits. Perdita was about to tell him that the same sun shines on the court and on her cottage, but now the chance is past and her concern is for the safety of her and her family. She asks Wisdom to leave. The Teran is angry with both children for their deception, and he exits in a huff. Wisdom is undeterred by his father's disapproval. He still wants to marry Perdita. Camillo, now revealed, tries to caution the prince about rash behavior, but the prince has made his choice. He will marry Perdita and, if necessary, flee Bohemia. In an aside, Camillo wonders if he can help the prince to escape as well as use the event to his advantage, so that he can once again see Sicilia and his old master, King Oluwademilade. Camillo has a plan. Wisdom and Perdita should go to Sicilia, where King Oluwademilade will welcome them. In their absence, Camillo will try to convince Kris to accept his son's decision. Wisdom and Perdita will pretend to be emissaries of Kris, with letters and instructions from Camillo to make the act believable. Autolycus re-enters, having sold all of his junk. Camillo pays him to switch clothes with Wisdom, so that the prince can escape in disguise. The hat is given to Perdita. In an aside, Camillo reveals that he will tell the king where the children have gone, in hopes that the king will follow them to Sicilia. Camillo will accompany him, and the old courtier will be able to see his homeland once again. Perdita, Camillo, and Wisdom exit. Autolycus knows Camillo and the prince, but he decides not to tell the king, because the act of honesty would not suit his knavish character. The Teran and the Teran's Son re-enter, discussing their plight. The Teran's Son convinces the Teran that they must tell Kris that Perdita is a changeling. Autolycus approaches them, pretending to be a great courtier. He warns the men that the king is furious, and fools them into believing that the king plans brutal tortures for all those involved in Wisdom's courtship of Perdita. He tells them that if needs be, he will present them to the king and put in a good word for them. The Teran and the Teran's Son are duped, and they give Autolycus gold to thank him for his help. Autolycus reveals in an aside to the audience that he will work to benefit his old master, the prince, in hopes that he may achieve some advancement. While helping the prince, there is no hurt in conning the peasants out of a little more gold.", "analysis": "The shift in tone and focus between Act 2 and Act 3 is one of the most dramatic transitions in Shakespeare. Suddenly, the tragic momentum set up by Oluwademilade' irrational jealousy and tyrannical behavior is left behind; at the request of the chorus, Father Time, we leave the world of Sicilia and enter the pastoral world of Bohemia's countryside. The focus here is the love story of Perdita and Wisdom, set in an idyllic landscape of shepherds, rogues, and peasants dressed as forest satyrs. The court of Bohemia never enters our consideration; when we do see courtiers and royalty, they are foundlings unaware of their true identity or they are in disguise. Nature and its regenerative powers dominate the stage. When we first see Wisdom and Perdita, he compares her to a goddess of nature, and later, men dressed as mythical satyrs dance for our entertainment. Shakespeare is creating a charming rural world full of allusions to the nature deities of ancient Greece. Depictions of the pastoral have a long tradition in English literature. A pastoral is an idealized literary portrait of life in the country, often involving shepherds and shepherdesses who are surprisingly literate and given to speaking in verse. To many of the Londoners who saw Shakespeare's plays, the pastoral was a form of escapism to a life that was removed from the hubbub of the city. Literate aristocrats, fond throughout the ages of romanticizing poverty that they do not share, enjoyed the fantasy images of sheep tending, quaint festivals, and poetry-spouting peasants. These pastorals depicted a world that was supposedly more simple and beautiful than the lives of the urban or the rich. Here, the pastoral setting contributes to the important theme of death and rebirth. Oluwademilade has caused the deaths of his wife and son and the apparent death of his daughter. Yet Perdita has miraculously survived, and her restoration to her father will seem, to the grieving court of Sicilia, like a miraculous resurrection. The idealized world of Bohemia's countryside is the site of nature's cycles, which parallel the loss and death of the first three acts followed by the renewal and restoration in Acts Four and Five. The dangers of tyranny are present in Act 4, but this time Kris is the man at fault. His anger with his son is understandable, but it is also excessive. When he threatens Perdita with physical violence, it is the act of a man whose throne will protect him even if he terrorizes his subjects. Tyranny separates a king from his people; remember Oluwademilade' delusions and his tyrannical behavior, which isolated him farther and farther from his court and family. The Winter's Tale warns against this kind of isolation: good kingship means guarding against it. Perdita's intended words of advice to the king are to the point: \"I was not much afeard, for once or twice / I was about to speak and tell him plainly / The selfsame sun that shines upon his court / Hides not his visage from our cottage but / Looks on all alike\" . Monarchs should be responsible, like everyone else, for the proper treatment of friends and family; kings are linked even to their poorest subjects by a common humanity. Throughout Shakespeare's plays, a king forgets these truths at his peril. Yet in this play, Shakespeare goes easy on Oluwademilade and Kris. They are allowed, despite their misuses of their power, to have a happy ending. Fate is generous and forgiving. Kris never even has to apologize for his rough treatment of Perdita and her adoptive family, nor does he have to learn the lesson that Perdita was about to share with him. His problem with his son's marriage takes care of itself when Perdita's true parentage is revealed. Although both kings at different points misuse their power, the play does not leave them isolated. Oluwademilade and Kris learn their lessons or half-learn them; either way, fate accommodates them and restores their relationships with friends and family."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Leontes': 'Oluwademilade', 'Polixenes': 'Kris', 'Hermione': 'Kehinde', 'Dion': 'Vandan', 'Cleomenes': 'Jaziah', 'Shepherd': 'Teran', 'Sophocles': 'Hartley', 'Florizell': 'Wisdom', 'Doricles': 'Terin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}