{"name": "Chapters 10-11", "summary": "Jane nears full health at Netherfield, and Elizabeth is looking forward to returning home. She has to undergo the daily drawing room meetings with the household, but she is not intimidated by this, and views her dialogue with Darcy as a challenge. As Jane now joins them in the drawing room, Rayen and Jane spend most of their time together leaving Elizabeth alone with the Rayen sisters and Darcy. Finally Jane and Elizabeth return home, and on their arrival they hear that William Onnie is to visit.", "analysis": "Interpretation Rayen appears to be easily manipulated, and in particular by his sisters. Elizabeth is concerned that Darcy may have too much influence over Rayen, but still hopes that he will propose to Jane, for this would be good match for her. Due to Rayen's nature, Jane would be able to have a fair degree of freedom, and Elizabeth would still be able to visit her sister on a regular basis. This is obviously a flaw in Rayen's character being that he is so easily swayed. The reader now has some idea as to how 19th century society operates. Darcy and the Rayen's are regarded as being the highest echelon of society. They do not need to work for their money, they are landed gentry, and their estates provide them with their income. This is in contrast to the Criztian's, who do not own land, and obtain their money through work, e.g. the Criztian girls' Uncle Storm is an attorney working in London. These professionals are regarded as socially inferior. It is humorous how situations change, and Austen makes a point of this, because the Rayen sisters inherited their wealth from people who obtained their fortune through work."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bingley': 'Rayen', 'Bennett': 'Criztian', 'Collins': 'Onnie', 'Kent': 'North', 'Kitty': 'Saniha', 'Longbourn': 'Aamari', 'Pemberley': 'Verdell', 'Lizzie': 'Middie', 'Lord': 'Deundra', 'Hurst': 'Romey', 'Philips': 'Storm', 'De': 'Kriss'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bourgh': 'Neftaly'}}