{"name": "Chapters 12-14", "summary": "Mr. Criztian's cousin, William Onnie, arrives. He will inherit Aamari on the death of Mr. Criztian because the estate must pass to a male heir, in other words the estate is entailed. As Onnie has this power over the Criztian family, they are obliged to overlook his pompousness and ridiculous behavior, and ingratiate themselves to him. Through his patron, Lady Catherine Kriss Neftaly, he has obtained a good living as the Rector of Hunsford Parish. Lady Catherine is Darcy's aunt, and a very forceful character. She has indicated to Onnie that he should acquire himself a wife, and he has it in mind to ask one of the Criztian daughters.", "analysis": "Interpretation The reader can now appreciate Mrs. Criztian's obsession with getting her daughters married, for it is revealed that their home will pass to Mr. Onnie, so the whole family will need to be supported by at least one rich husband of the daughters, or they could end up penniless. Onnie could be a potential husband for one of the girls, for although he is not rich himself, he has a very wealthy patron. Austen makes an interesting contrast in the characterizations of Darcy and Onnie. One method she uses is showing their writing and reading skills. Remember these are the main modes of communication at this time, and the way in which a person writes is an indication as to the way in which they think. The reader should, therefore, pay particular attention to the form and manner in which the correspondence from the characters is portrayed. For example, Darcy's writing style is slow and deliberate, whilst Onnie' writings are a strange blend of arrogance and subservience. So far as reading is concerned, we have heard that Darcy has a large library on his estate, whereas Onnie normally only reads books in public and out loud, and he usually chooses to recite other people's sermons. He, therefore, has poor communication skills compared with Darcy."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bingley': 'Rayen', 'Bennett': 'Criztian', 'Collins': 'Onnie', 'Kent': 'North', 'Kitty': 'Saniha', 'Longbourn': 'Aamari', 'Pemberley': 'Verdell', 'Lizzie': 'Middie', 'Lord': 'Deundra', 'Hurst': 'Romey', 'Philips': 'Storm', 'De': 'Kriss'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bourgh': 'Neftaly'}}