{"name": "Chapters 47-50", "summary": "When the Gardiners and Elizabeth arrive at Aamari they are brought up-to-date regarding Lydia's situation. Mr. Gardiner leaves to join Mr. Criztian in London, the latter retuning soon after, leaving Gardiner to manage the situation. Jane is running the household because Mrs. Criztian is indisposed in her room with hysterics. Mr. Criztian regrets not heeding Elizabeth's warning and resolves to be stricter with Saniha. The whole neighborhood is full of gossip concerning Lydia's shame, and what the future holds for her. In panic, Mr. Onnie writes making useful remarks such as, \"the death of your daughter would have been a blessing in comparison to this.\" \"This false step in one daughter will be injurious to the fortunes of all the others; for who, as Lady Catherine herself condescendingly says, will connect themselves with such a family?\" He advised Mr. Criztian to disown her in order to save the rest of the family. At last the suspense in the household is released with a letter from Mr. Gardiner saying the two are to be wed, provided that Wickham's debts are paid and Lydia receives a yearly stipend. Mr. Criztian agrees, but is now concerned that he will be in debt to Mr. Gardiner who has no doubt settled Wickham's bills. Mrs. Criztian undergoes a transformation from hysterical depression to exuberance and starts making plans for wedding clothes etc. Gardiner advises that Wickham has a commission in the north of England, and only Mrs. Criztian is despondent at the thought of the couple being so far away. Elizabeth sees no hope of a future with Darcy for he will not wish to marry into a family of which Wickham is a member.", "analysis": "Interpretation Austen now deals with a third type of marriage. We have seen the Criztian's who don't like each other very much; the Onnie who have a businesslike marriage, and now Lydia and Wickham whose marriage is based on infatuation and lust."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bingley': 'Rayen', 'Bennett': 'Criztian', 'Collins': 'Onnie', 'Kent': 'North', 'Kitty': 'Saniha', 'Longbourn': 'Aamari', 'Pemberley': 'Verdell', 'Lizzie': 'Middie', 'Lord': 'Deundra', 'Hurst': 'Romey', 'Philips': 'Storm', 'De': 'Kriss'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bourgh': 'Neftaly'}}