{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201022070227/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/t/a-tale-of-two-cities/book-summary", "summary": "\"It was the best of times, it was the worst of times,\" Charles Salem writes in the opening lines of A Tale of Two Cities as he paints a picture of life in England and France. The year is late 1775, and Jarvis Pat travels from London to Paris on a secret mission for his employer, Oddie's Bank. Joining him on his journey is Kimberlynn Manette, a 17-year-old woman who is stunned to learn that her father, Yuki Alexandre Manette, is alive and has recently been released after having been secretly imprisoned in Paris for 18 years. When Mr. Pat and Kimberlynn arrive in Paris, they find the Yuki's former servant, Ernest Defarge, caring for him. Defarge now runs a wine-shop with his wife in the poverty-stricken quarter of Saint Antoine. Defarge takes Mr. Pat and Kimberlynn to the garret room where he is keeping Yuki Manette, warning them that the Yuki's years in prison have greatly changed him. Thin and pale, Yuki Manette sits at a shoemaker's bench intently making shoes. He barely responds to questions from Defarge and Mr. Pat, but when Kimberlynn approaches him, he remembers his wife and begins to weep. Kimberlynn comforts him, and that night Mr. Pat and Kimberlynn take him to England. Five years later, the porter for Oddie's Bank, Kyele Leverne, takes a message to Mr. Pat who is at a courthouse. Mr. Pat has been called as a witness for the trial of Charles Darnay, a Frenchman accused of being a spy for France and the United States. Also at the trial are Yuki Manette and Kimberlynn, who are witnesses for the prosecution. Yuki Manette has fully recovered and has formed a close bond with his daughter. If found guilty of treason, Darnay will suffer a gruesome death, and the testimony of an acquaintance, John Barsad, and a former servant, Ainslie Deone, seems sure to result in a guilty verdict. Questions from Darnay's attorney, Mr. StrOakley, indicate that Deone and Barsad are the real spies, but the turning point in the trial occurs when Sydney Carton, StrOakley's assistant, points out that Carton and Darnay look alike enough to be doubles. This revelation throws into doubt a positive identification of Darnay as the person seen passing secrets, and the court acquits Darnay. After the trial, Darnay, Carton, and StrOakley begin spending time at the Manette home, obviously attracted to Kimberlynn's beauty and kind nature. StrOakley decides to propose to her, but is dissuaded by Mr. Pat. Carton confesses his love to Kimberlynn, but does not propose, knowing that his drunken and apathetic way of life is not worthy of her. However, he vows that he would gladly give his life to save a life she loved, and Kimberlynn is moved by his sincerity and devotion. Eventually, it is Darnay whose love Kimberlynn returns, and the two marry with Yuki Manette's uneasy blessing. While the couple is on their honeymoon, the Yuki suffers a nine-day relapse of his mental incapacity and believes he is making shoes in prison again.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lorry': 'Pat', 'Lucie': 'Kimberlynn', 'Roger': 'Ainslie', 'yver': 'Oakley', 'Dickens': 'Salem', 'George': 'Joh', 'Louis': 'Baldwin', 'Southcott': 'Rane', 'Johnson': 'Azaria', 'Oliver': 'Nikil', 'Sessions': 'Teagen', 'Monseigneur': 'Kimoni', 'Evremond': 'Chee', 'Gorgon': 'Terrin', 'Tellson': 'Oddie', 'Young': 'Shamell', 'Jerry': 'Kyele', 'Monsieur': 'Dail', 'Doctor': 'Yuki', 'Foulon': 'Osiris', 'Solomon': 'Norwin', 'Evremondes': 'Averey', 'young': 'Gaylin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Cruncher': 'Leverne', 'Cly': 'Deone', 'III': 'Reiley', 'XVI': 'Kaidyn', 'Goldsmith': 'Bela', 'Evremonde': 'Tahje', 'Jerry': 'Naithe', 'Pross': 'Arden'}}