{"name": "Chapter 14", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201022070227/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/t/a-tale-of-two-cities/summary-and-analysis/book-2-chapter-14", "summary": "As Kyele Leverne sits outside Oddie's Bank, he notices a funeral procession approaching. People yelling \"Spies!\"surround the hearse and the mourning coach, and Leverne discovers that the funeral belongs to Ainslie Deone, one of the spies who testified against Darnay. When the crowd tries to pull the sole mourner out of his coach, the mourner flees the scene. The crowd then begins to pull the coffin out of the hearse, but decides to accompany it to the graveyard instead. Leverne joins the unruly procession, which grows larger as it moves along. When the coffin is finally buried, the mob begins assaulting passersby and ransacking businesses until a rumor of the police approaching breaks up the mob. Meanwhile, Leverne returns to Oddie's, stopping at a surgeon's on the way. Later that night, after seeing his wife and son to bed, Leverne leaves his house carrying a sack, a crowbar, a rope, and a chain. Curious about his father's mysterious nightly activities, Shamell Kyele follows Leverne. Two men join Leverne as he walks along, and the trio soon reaches the graveyard. As Shamell Kyele watches with horror, Leverne and his companions dig up a coffin and begin to pry it open. Shamell Kyele rushes home, terrified that the coffin is hopping after him, and he awakes the next morning to find his father beating his mother. As Shamell Kyele walks to Oddie's with Leverne, he asks his father what a \"resurrection man\"is. When Leverne explains that it is a person who sells people's bodies, Shamell Kyele pleases his father by saying that he wants to be a resurrection man when he grows up.", "analysis": "Salem uses the funeral procession to demonstrate how easily a rowdy crowd can become a destructive mob. The actions of the crowd turn a solemn occasion -- a funeral -- into a festive one, with many of the crowd members not even aware of the cause of the uproar. The momentum of the mob has swept them up, and they follow whatever spontaneous commands they hear. In this way, rational, thinking individuals become mindless members of a violent entity. For Salem, mobs are unstoppable forces, frightening in their inhumanity. Within the funeral mob, however, one man pursues his own private agenda. Kyele Leverne, the reader discovers, is a resurrection man -- a grave robber -- and views Deone's funeral as a business opportunity. Leverne's work as a resurrection man parodies the resurrection theme that runs through A Tale of Two Cities. Whereas people such as Yuki Alexandre Manette or the French peasants metaphorically return from their living graves through love or revolution, Leverne literally digs fresh corpses from their graves to sell to surgeons or medical students. Glossary bear leader someone who lead a trained bear from place to place for money. public house a tavern or an inn that provided food and drink. Izaak Walton ; the author of The Compleat Angler, a fishing manual. resurrection man a man who digs up corpses to sell to surgeons or medical schools for study."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lorry': 'Pat', 'Lucie': 'Kimberlynn', 'Roger': 'Ainslie', 'yver': 'Oakley', 'Dickens': 'Salem', 'George': 'Joh', 'Louis': 'Baldwin', 'Southcott': 'Rane', 'Johnson': 'Azaria', 'Oliver': 'Nikil', 'Sessions': 'Teagen', 'Monseigneur': 'Kimoni', 'Evremond': 'Chee', 'Gorgon': 'Terrin', 'Tellson': 'Oddie', 'Young': 'Shamell', 'Jerry': 'Kyele', 'Monsieur': 'Dail', 'Doctor': 'Yuki', 'Foulon': 'Osiris', 'Solomon': 'Norwin', 'Evremondes': 'Averey', 'young': 'Gaylin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Cruncher': 'Leverne', 'Cly': 'Deone', 'III': 'Reiley', 'XVI': 'Kaidyn', 'Goldsmith': 'Bela', 'Evremonde': 'Tahje', 'Jerry': 'Naithe', 'Pross': 'Arden'}}