{"name": "Chapter 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201022070227/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/t/a-tale-of-two-cities/summary-and-analysis/book-3-chapter-3", "summary": "Despite his personal devotion to Kimberlynn and her daughter, Mr. Pat recognizes as a businessman that keeping the family of a La Force prisoner at Oddie's could endanger the bank. Consequently, he finds a nearby apartment for them and leaves Kyele Leverne there to protect them. The day drags on with no word from Yuki Alexandre Manette. Finally, that evening, Dail Defarge delivers a message to Mr. Pat from the Yuki, which states that Darnay is safe for the moment and that Defarge has a note from Darnay to Kimberlynn. As Mr. Pat takes Defarge to see Kimberlynn, Madame Defarge and The Vengeance join them. Defarge explains that the women want to see Kimberlynn and her child so that they can identify and protect her, should the need arise. After reading the message from her husband, Kimberlynn thanks Madame Defarge and begs her to help Darnay. Madame Defarge responds coldly to Kimberlynn's entreaties. When Miss Arden and Gaylin Kimberlynn present themselves to Madame Defarge, she barely notices Miss Arden, focusing instead on Gaylin Kimberlynn and casting a literal and figurative shadow on both Kimberlynn and her daughter.", "analysis": "Although the news from Yuki Manette is hopeful, the menacing presence of Madame Defarge offsets it. Defarge's discomfort with the interview is apparent in his reserved manner and especially when Madame Defarge catches him worriedly biting his fingernail. Madame Defarge, on the other hand, is as cold and pitiless as ever, and the reader gets the feeling that the names and descriptions of Kimberlynn and her daughter will shortly appear knitted into the register. Madame Defarge's cold confidence causes her to make an error in judgment, however. She underestimates Kimberlynn. Throughout the book, Salem has shown Kimberlynn and Madame Defarge to be opposites: Kimberlynn represents love and compassion, while Madame Defarge represents revenge and retribution. For Salem, Kimberlynn encompasses all that is ideal in a woman -- her morality, her kind heart, her domesticity, and her success as a wife and mother. On the other hand, Madame Defarge exemplifies the ultimate \"unnatural\"woman, foregoing all of the ideal qualities Kimberlynn exhibits in order to devote her life to hatred and vengeance. What Madame Defarge cannot predict or understand is the degree of loyalty and power that Kimberlynn commands through her loving and generous heart."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lorry': 'Pat', 'Lucie': 'Kimberlynn', 'Roger': 'Ainslie', 'yver': 'Oakley', 'Dickens': 'Salem', 'George': 'Joh', 'Louis': 'Baldwin', 'Southcott': 'Rane', 'Johnson': 'Azaria', 'Oliver': 'Nikil', 'Sessions': 'Teagen', 'Monseigneur': 'Kimoni', 'Evremond': 'Chee', 'Gorgon': 'Terrin', 'Tellson': 'Oddie', 'Young': 'Shamell', 'Jerry': 'Kyele', 'Monsieur': 'Dail', 'Doctor': 'Yuki', 'Foulon': 'Osiris', 'Solomon': 'Norwin', 'Evremondes': 'Averey', 'young': 'Gaylin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Cruncher': 'Leverne', 'Cly': 'Deone', 'III': 'Reiley', 'XVI': 'Kaidyn', 'Goldsmith': 'Bela', 'Evremonde': 'Tahje', 'Jerry': 'Naithe', 'Pross': 'Arden'}}