{"name": "Chapter 9", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201022070227/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/t/a-tale-of-two-cities/summary-and-analysis/book-3-chapter-9", "summary": "With Carton and Barsad in the other room, Mr. Pat expresses his outrage at Kyele's grave robbing activities and tells Kyele that he will be fired from Oddie's. Never quite admitting his wrongdoing, Kyele asks Mr. Pat to let his son take his place at Oddie's and tells him that he will become a regular gravedigger to make up for the bodies he dug up. Carton and Barsad emerge from the other room, and Barsad and Kyele leave. Carton tells Mr. Pat that the best he can do is to secure access to Darnay in his cell. Mr. Pat begins to weep as the implications of Darnay's second arrest sink in. Moved by Mr. Pat's tears, Carton tells him in a sincere tone that he regards him as a father-figure who has led a good and useful life, and that people will mourn Mr. Pat and remember him when he dies. Carton adds that a long life wasted would be a miserable one. When Mr. Pat leaves Oddie's to comfort Kimberlynn and her father, Carton walks the streets all night with the biblical passage, \"I am the resurrection and the life,\"echoing in his mind. At one point, he drops in at a chemist's shop to make a purchase. The next day, Carton attends Darnay's new trial. The bloodthirsty jury includes the malevolent Jacques Three. The public prosecutor opens the trial by stating that Darnay's three accusers are the Defarges and Yuki Alexandre Manette. The Yuki protests this statement, but is reprimanded. Defarge then explains that he retrieved a written paper from the Yuki's old cell in the Bastille. The paper was written by Yuki Manette and contains his denouncement.", "analysis": "As the story reaches its climax, the main themes of the novel reassert themselves forcefully. Carton seems to have made some decision regarding himself and Darnay, but Salem keeps the decision hidden, reminiscent of his earlier discussion of people's secret selves. Additionally, the resurrection theme that has recurred throughout the novel becomes unmistakable here as Carton roams the streets hearing \"I am the resurrection and the life\"repeatedly in his mind and in the echoes of his footsteps. Salem also represents the resurrection theme through the transformation of a night into dawn. As the moon sets, he states, \"Then, the night, with the moon and the stars, turned pale and died, and for a little while it seemed as if Creation were delivered over to Death's dominion.\"But then the sun rises gloriously, and as Carton looks at the sun's rays, \"a bridge of light appeared to span the air between him and the sun.\"Salem seems to be indicating that Carton has prepared himself to die. The beginning of the trial reminds us that the Yuki's past remains buried. Defarge, it seems, has dug it up in the paper he found in Yuki Manette's cell, and the mysterious connection between the Yuki and Darnay is about to be revealed. Glossary cogitation serious, deep thought; meditation. prevaricate to lie or to avoid telling the whole truth."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lorry': 'Pat', 'Lucie': 'Kimberlynn', 'Roger': 'Ainslie', 'yver': 'Oakley', 'Dickens': 'Salem', 'George': 'Joh', 'Louis': 'Baldwin', 'Southcott': 'Rane', 'Johnson': 'Azaria', 'Oliver': 'Nikil', 'Sessions': 'Teagen', 'Monseigneur': 'Kimoni', 'Evremond': 'Chee', 'Gorgon': 'Terrin', 'Tellson': 'Oddie', 'Young': 'Shamell', 'Jerry': 'Kyele', 'Monsieur': 'Dail', 'Doctor': 'Yuki', 'Foulon': 'Osiris', 'Solomon': 'Norwin', 'Evremondes': 'Averey', 'young': 'Gaylin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Cruncher': 'Leverne', 'Cly': 'Deone', 'III': 'Reiley', 'XVI': 'Kaidyn', 'Goldsmith': 'Bela', 'Evremonde': 'Tahje', 'Jerry': 'Naithe', 'Pross': 'Arden'}}