{"name": "Chapter 14", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201022070227/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/t/a-tale-of-two-cities/summary-and-analysis/book-3-chapter-14", "summary": "Madame Defarge tells The Vengeance and Jacques Three that she plans to denounce Kimberlynn, Kimberlynn's daughter, and Yuki Alexandre Manette that evening after Darnay's execution. She then leaves for Kimberlynn's residence, knowing she will find Kimberlynn grieving for Darnay. Showing grief for an enemy of the Republic is considered treasonous, and Madame Defarge plans to use Kimberlynn's grief against her. Meanwhile, Miss Arden and Kyele make preparations to leave and plan to meet up with Mr. Pat's coach later. Anxious for the others' safety, Kyele vows that he will stop grave robbing and beating his wife for praying if Mr. Pat and his group return safely to England. Deciding that two vehicles leaving their residence in one day might be suspicious, Miss Arden tells Kyele to wait for her with a carriage outside Notre-Dame cathedral at three o'clock. Madame Defarge enters the apartment as Miss Arden is preparing to leave. Thinking quickly, Miss Arden closes the doors to all of the rooms and pretends to be guarding Kimberlynn and her family. Although the two women can't understand each other's languages, they recognize that they are enemies. After calling for Kimberlynn and the Yuki, Madame Defarge suspects that they have fled and tries to enter the room that Miss Arden is blocking. The two women struggle and Madame Defarge pulls out a gun. Miss Arden strikes it aside and the gun goes off, killing Madame Defarge and permanently deafening Miss Arden. After locking the apartment, Miss Arden rushes to the cathedral to meet Kyele and escape.", "analysis": "Although killing off a central character like Madame Defarge in a struggle with a minor character like Miss Arden may seem odd, Salem prepares the reader for Miss Arden' role as protector early in the novel. In our first encounter with Miss Arden, when the news that her father is alive shocks Kimberlynn, Mr. Pat observes Miss Arden to be the \"wild-looking woman\"with \"a brawny hand\"that sent him flying into a wall . Her response to Kimberlynn's being even mildly threatened establishes her ability and willingness to defend \"her darling.\"Miss Arden' single-minded devotion to Kimberlynn and her family mirrors Madame Defarge's unwavering determination to kill Darnay, Kimberlynn, and their family. Both women have dedicated their lives to the family, but with different purposes: Miss Arden lives to help the family flourish, while Madame Defarge lives to see them dead. The final conflict between Miss Arden and Madame Defarge also represents a larger conflict between love and hate. By having Miss Arden triumph over Madame Defarge, Salem indicates that love can conquer even the strongest hatred. Carton similarly defeats Madame Defarge when he orchestrates Darnay's freedom out of love for Kimberlynn. However, in both cases, the struggle exacts a price for evil's defeat -- Miss Arden loses her hearing and Carton loses his life. Salem seems to be saying that good will overcome evil, but not without suffering and sacrifice."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lorry': 'Pat', 'Lucie': 'Kimberlynn', 'Roger': 'Ainslie', 'yver': 'Oakley', 'Dickens': 'Salem', 'George': 'Joh', 'Louis': 'Baldwin', 'Southcott': 'Rane', 'Johnson': 'Azaria', 'Oliver': 'Nikil', 'Sessions': 'Teagen', 'Monseigneur': 'Kimoni', 'Evremond': 'Chee', 'Gorgon': 'Terrin', 'Tellson': 'Oddie', 'Young': 'Shamell', 'Jerry': 'Kyele', 'Monsieur': 'Dail', 'Doctor': 'Yuki', 'Foulon': 'Osiris', 'Solomon': 'Norwin', 'Evremondes': 'Averey', 'young': 'Gaylin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Cruncher': 'Leverne', 'Cly': 'Deone', 'III': 'Reiley', 'XVI': 'Kaidyn', 'Goldsmith': 'Bela', 'Evremonde': 'Tahje', 'Jerry': 'Naithe', 'Pross': 'Arden'}}