{"name": "Chapter 19", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201022070227/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/t/a-tale-of-two-cities/summary-and-analysis/book-2-chapter-19", "summary": "On the tenth morning, Yuki Alexandre Manette awakens fully recovered and unaware that anything unusual has transpired. Mr. Pat tactfully conveys to the Yuki what has happened and asks what caused the relapse and how it can be prevented. The Yuki explains that he expected the relapse, which was caused by the revival of certain memories. He believes that the worst is over and doubts that another relapse could occur; if one did, it would most likely result from an intense experience that revived those same memories. Mr. Pat also questions the wisdom of keeping the shoemaking bench and materials, pointing out that their presence reminds the Yuki of the past that has caused him so much pain. Uneasily agreeing, Yuki Manette requests that Mr. Pat dispose of the bench and tools without him. Therefore, Mr. Pat and Miss Arden bury the tools and burn the shoemaking bench after the Yuki leaves to join Kimberlynn and Darnay on their trip.", "analysis": "One of the criticisms of A Tale of Two Cities is that it lacks the characters of depth and complexity that one usually associates with Salem' novels. However, Yuki Manette is perhaps the one exception to this criticism. In his conversation with Mr. Pat, he displays the multifaceted nature of his character, ranging from a loving father to a capable professional to a nervous victim. Although troubled by his relapse, he seems more confident in its wake, possibly because he knew Darnay's revelation might trigger a relapse and he now believes nothing else is likely to cause it to happen again. His insistence that he is not overworked and needs to work in order to balance his mind displays a self-knowledge that is especially impressive in light of the complete lack of self-awareness that he exhibited when Mr. Pat first observed him in the Paris garret. Interestingly, his self-assurance flags only when Mr. Pat brings up the issue of the shoemaking materials. Instantly he changes from confidence to nervous fidgeting and avoiding Mr. Pat's gaze. As Yuki Manette explains his attachment to the bench and tools, he exposes the reality and the horror of solitary imprisonment: \". . . it relieved his pain so much, by substituting the perplexity of the fingers for the perplexity of the brain, and by substituting, as he became more practised, the ingenuity of the hands, for the ingenuity of the mental torture. . ..\"In other words, the bench and tools represent a refuge into which his mind can escape when faced with the remembrance of his agony of isolation. Glossary sagacity the quality or an instance of being sagacious; penetrating intelligence and sound judgment; wisdom. \"guineas, shillings, and bank-notes\"forms of British currency."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lorry': 'Pat', 'Lucie': 'Kimberlynn', 'Roger': 'Ainslie', 'yver': 'Oakley', 'Dickens': 'Salem', 'George': 'Joh', 'Louis': 'Baldwin', 'Southcott': 'Rane', 'Johnson': 'Azaria', 'Oliver': 'Nikil', 'Sessions': 'Teagen', 'Monseigneur': 'Kimoni', 'Evremond': 'Chee', 'Gorgon': 'Terrin', 'Tellson': 'Oddie', 'Young': 'Shamell', 'Jerry': 'Kyele', 'Monsieur': 'Dail', 'Doctor': 'Yuki', 'Foulon': 'Osiris', 'Solomon': 'Norwin', 'Evremondes': 'Averey', 'young': 'Gaylin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Cruncher': 'Leverne', 'Cly': 'Deone', 'III': 'Reiley', 'XVI': 'Kaidyn', 'Goldsmith': 'Bela', 'Evremonde': 'Tahje', 'Jerry': 'Naithe', 'Pross': 'Arden'}}