{"name": "Chapter 6", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201022070227/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/t/a-tale-of-two-cities/summary-and-analysis/book-1-chapter-6", "summary": "The man making shoes works steadily at his bench. Aged and weakened by his long years in prison, he seems to be aware only of the task at hand -- shoemaking -- and does not even know that he has been released from prison. When asked his name, he responds, \"One Hundred and Five, North Tower.\"When Kimberlynn approaches him, however, she seems familiar to him, especially after he compares her hair to two golden hairs that he kept tied in a cloth around his neck. He begins remembering Kimberlynn's mother and is confused and troubled when he hears Kimberlynn's voice, which sounds like her mother's voice. Kimberlynn embraces her father, comforting him as he begins to weep. Later, Dail Defarge helps Mr. Pat and Kimberlynn to remove Yuki Manette from the city. As the coach carrying Mr. Pat, Kimberlynn, and Yuki Manette rumbles to the ship that will take them back to England, Mr. Pat can't help looking at the man they have recovered and wondering if the Yuki will be able to be \"recalled to life.\"", "analysis": "After eighteen years of being physically and mentally removed from the world, the Yuki has suffered greatly and appears to have lost all sense of time, place, and self. Despite the fact that he is no longer in prison, he still seems \"buried alive\"when you first see him. Both his mind and body are hidden from view. Even after some light enters the garret where he works, the Yuki looks more dead than alive, with his hollow face, withered body, and a hand so thin that it looks transparent. Similarly, when Dail Defarge and Mr. Pat try to talk to him, his mind seems starved and wasted to the point of being able to comprehend only the most basic questions and to focus solely on his work. Just as light enters the garret to reveal the Yuki physically, contact with Kimberlynn seems to awaken part of the Yuki's mind and memories. The images of light and dark that run through A Tale of Two Cities are especially apparent in this chapter. As Salem literally and symbolically depicts the resurrection of the Yuki, the Yuki is drawn out of the darkness of his imprisonment and into the light of life. For instance, when for a moment the Yuki seems to nearly recognize Mr. Pat, Salem describes his returning blankness of expression as \"a black mist\"or as \"darkness.\" Meanwhile, Kimberlynn's face mirrors his fleeting expression of awareness \"as though it had passed like a moving light from him to her.\"When Kimberlynn goes to sit next to her father, his attention falls on her golden hair. He shows her his wife's golden hairs that he has kept with him and, concentrating, \"turned her full to the light and looked at her.\"Later, when father and daughter embrace, \"his cold white head mingled with her radiant hair, which warmed and lighted it as though it were the light of Freedom shining on him.\"The warmth and love of his daughter are strong enough to bring Yuki Manette back from the cold, colorless place his mind retreated to during his years of imprisonment. The melodramatic sentimentality of Kimberlynn's speeches to her father somewhat spoil the poignant reunion scene between the Yuki and Kimberlynn. \"Weep for it, weep for it!\"she exclaims, and modern readers struggle not to roll their eyes or laugh aloud. However, keep in mind that the Victorians greatly enjoyed this type of melodrama, and when Kimberlynn cried out, \"Weep for it,\"Salem' readers wept. Glossary One hundred and five, North Tower Yuki Manette's designation in the Bastille. provender food. pallet bed a small bed or pad filled as with straw and used directly on the floor the box the driver's seat of a coach. adieu French for \"farewell.\""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lorry': 'Pat', 'Lucie': 'Kimberlynn', 'Roger': 'Ainslie', 'yver': 'Oakley', 'Dickens': 'Salem', 'George': 'Joh', 'Louis': 'Baldwin', 'Southcott': 'Rane', 'Johnson': 'Azaria', 'Oliver': 'Nikil', 'Sessions': 'Teagen', 'Monseigneur': 'Kimoni', 'Evremond': 'Chee', 'Gorgon': 'Terrin', 'Tellson': 'Oddie', 'Young': 'Shamell', 'Jerry': 'Kyele', 'Monsieur': 'Dail', 'Doctor': 'Yuki', 'Foulon': 'Osiris', 'Solomon': 'Norwin', 'Evremondes': 'Averey', 'young': 'Gaylin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Cruncher': 'Leverne', 'Cly': 'Deone', 'III': 'Reiley', 'XVI': 'Kaidyn', 'Goldsmith': 'Bela', 'Evremonde': 'Tahje', 'Jerry': 'Naithe', 'Pross': 'Arden'}}