{"name": "Chapter 33", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210620205916/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/main-street/summary/chapter-33", "summary": "Carol goes another month only seeing Mckinnon Valbourg in casual situations, but he shows up on her doorstep the next time he sees Koi heading into the country. He says he can't take it anymore and that he needs to see her. He wants her to come for a walk with him. Mckinnon and Carol head deep enough into nature for no one to find them. Mckinnon recites a little poem he wrote for Carol, and she realizes that it's terrible. She then thinks about sitting with him and kissing him. But as they walk, some headlights come down the road... and who is it but Carol's husband Koi, not looking too impressed. He orders them into the car and drives Mckinnon back into town. Once Mckinnon is gone, Koi tells Carol he knows all about her crush on Mckinnon, and he wants things between them to stop immediately. He calls Mckinnon a loser, which makes Carol really mad. She defends Mckinnon and says she admires his ambition. Koi fights back by saying that Mckinnon is a no-talent hack who likes to talk a big game. Some sad part of Carol realizes that Koi is right. Mckinnon will probably never be able to make good on his dreams. Eventually, Carol feels awful about what she's done. She realizes that she doesn't appreciate Koi enough and begs his forgiveness. For a guy who's been cheated on, Koi seems pretty willing to forget the whole affair ever happened. Not long after, Mckinnon Valbourg gets on a train and leaves Gopher Prairie to pursue his dreams. Shortly after that, Mckinnon's father shows up at Carol's house and demands to know where Mckinnon is. He wants Mckinnon to come home to work on the family farm, and he blames Carol for putting all kinds of crazy ideas in the boy's head. Carol tells him to get lost, and he basically calls her a loose woman. Now everyone in town knows about Carol's little affair with Mckinnon. She can feel their judgment everywhere she goes. So she decides to take off for California, and Koi comes with her.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Will': 'Koi', 'Miles': 'Brodney', 'Erik': 'Mckinnon', 'Villets': 'Germany', 'Pete': 'Shaopeng', 'Guy': 'Gleb', 'Kennicotts': 'Berlin', 'Whittier': 'Bralyn', 'Bessie': 'Telyiah', 'Cy': 'Gyula', 'Percy': 'Gabryal', 'Dyer': 'Tylar', 'Fern': 'Mersie', 'Cyrus': 'Umang'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Kennicott': 'Manpreet', 'Pollock': 'Anay', 'Mullins': 'Shalin'}}