{"name": "Chapter 29", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210620205916/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/main-street/summary/chapter-29", "summary": "One day, Carol goes walking with her son Hugh along the Gopher Prairie railroad tracks and runs into Mckinnon Valbourg. Mckinnon takes immediate notice of Hugh and straightens his outfit. Mckinnon and Carol chat for a while about books, and Carol calls him out for not really knowing what he's talking about. Mckinnon apologizes and asks if Carol can recommend things for him to read. He knows he's a poser, but he has big dreams. At this point, Mckinnon decides to throw away decorum and ask Carol if she's happy in her marriage. Carol thinks this is a bit forward, but part of her is happy that Mckinnon has asked. When Carol and Mckinnon get back into town, Carol sees some old women staring at her through a window. From that point on, she feels like she needs to explain to everyone why she was walking with someone like Mckinnon. The more she thinks about him, the more she wants to support his dreams and help him escape from Gopher Prairie. Mckinnon won't be daunted by his social status, though. For starters, he organizes a tennis tournament for the town. Unfortunately, some higher-ups decide to change the location of the tennis tournament at the last second without informing Mckinnon. They're making it pretty clear that he doesn't belong among them. When Carol scolds the folks for changing the tennis plans, Juanita Haydock, a neighbor, notices that Carol is defending Mckinnon a little too much and implies that Carol likes Mckinnon. This comment immediately makes Carol back down. Carol starts making up reasons to visit the tailor shop, ordering suits that her husband Koi doesn't want or need. Over time, Carol finds herself singing more often and feeling cheerful. She suddenly realizes that she might have a crush on Mckinnon. She becomes more critical of the clothes she wears and tries to look good around Mckinnon whenever she can.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Will': 'Koi', 'Miles': 'Brodney', 'Erik': 'Mckinnon', 'Villets': 'Germany', 'Pete': 'Shaopeng', 'Guy': 'Gleb', 'Kennicotts': 'Berlin', 'Whittier': 'Bralyn', 'Bessie': 'Telyiah', 'Cy': 'Gyula', 'Percy': 'Gabryal', 'Dyer': 'Tylar', 'Fern': 'Mersie', 'Cyrus': 'Umang'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Kennicott': 'Manpreet', 'Pollock': 'Anay', 'Mullins': 'Shalin'}}