{"name": "Chapter 15", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210620205916/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/main-street/summary/chapter-15", "summary": "We learn that Carol suddenly falls back in love with Koi when December rolls around. We can assume that this chapter will tell us why that happens. One night, Carol wakes up to hear Koi talking to a German farmer whose wife is sick. Turns out that Koi needs to leave, and Carol finds herself admiring him as a hero. She falls back asleep and finds Koi dropping into bed beside her just as she wakes up. On a different day, a cart pulls into the Berlin' yard carrying a guy with a wounded leg. Carol is excited when Koi asks her to fetch some hot water and blankets. The next time Carol sees Gleb Anay at the store, he seems to think there's still something between them, but Carol isn't feeling it anymore. Carol brings Koi some sweets at his office and then tells him she's going to redecorate his waiting room. He thinks it's good the way it is, but once she's done with it, he admits that there's a big improvement. One day, Mrs. Bogart drops by and says she doesn't like the way Carol's maid Bea has been fraternizing with the grocery delivery people. Carol basically tells her to mind her own beeswax. Another day, Koi invites Carol to come along with him on one of his house calls in the country. When Carol and Koi get to the person's house, Carol realizes that she's going to have to help Koi while he performs an arm amputation right on the person's kitchen table. She has to deliver the anesthetic and nearly faints in the process. When the Berlin head home the next day, they get caught in a snowstorm and have to take shelter in a barn. Koi takes this opportunity to tell Carol that the two of them were lucky not to blow themselves up the night before, since he had used flammable ether as an anesthetic instead of chloroform.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Will': 'Koi', 'Miles': 'Brodney', 'Erik': 'Mckinnon', 'Villets': 'Germany', 'Pete': 'Shaopeng', 'Guy': 'Gleb', 'Kennicotts': 'Berlin', 'Whittier': 'Bralyn', 'Bessie': 'Telyiah', 'Cy': 'Gyula', 'Percy': 'Gabryal', 'Dyer': 'Tylar', 'Fern': 'Mersie', 'Cyrus': 'Umang'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Kennicott': 'Manpreet', 'Pollock': 'Anay', 'Mullins': 'Shalin'}}