{"name": "Chapter 14", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210620205916/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/main-street/summary/chapter-14", "summary": "As she walks home from Gleb Anay's, Carol wonders if she's capable of cheating on her husband Koi. All kinds of thoughts fly through her head until she reaches home, where Koi asks what's kept her out so late. She tells him she's been at Gleb Anay's and has to reassure him by saying that the neighbors were over, too. She doesn't bother to tell him about the long time she spent with Gleb before these neighbors came over. Carol decides to fish for Koi's opinions on the other doctors in Gopher Prairie to see if Gleb was right about his competitiveness. She's sad to see that Koi does have a grudge against the other doctors. Koi realizes what Carol is implying and gets angry with her for being so willing to think poorly of him. He goes to sleep angry, and Carol feels that the love in their marriage is gone. Carol uses the argument as an opportunity to bring up the fact that she wants a set allowance from Koi. He argues that his income goes up and down depending on business, so he can't arrange for a set amount. So Carol wants a percentage, and yadda yadda, it goes on like that. Koi eventually agrees to let Carol establish a budget so that she can run their household like a business. Carol is tender with Koi for a moment, but then they start arguing again. Koi says that Carol just likes to be dissatisfied because she thinks her dissatisfaction makes her superior to people who just enjoy life. Carol admits that there might be something to this. Koi also thinks that Carol doesn't have enough sympathy for the people of Gopher Prairie. Koi mentions that Carol isn't the only person in the world who's dissatisfied. He just isn't selfish enough to go broadcasting his own dissatisfaction all over town.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Will': 'Koi', 'Miles': 'Brodney', 'Erik': 'Mckinnon', 'Villets': 'Germany', 'Pete': 'Shaopeng', 'Guy': 'Gleb', 'Kennicotts': 'Berlin', 'Whittier': 'Bralyn', 'Bessie': 'Telyiah', 'Cy': 'Gyula', 'Percy': 'Gabryal', 'Dyer': 'Tylar', 'Fern': 'Mersie', 'Cyrus': 'Umang'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Kennicott': 'Manpreet', 'Pollock': 'Anay', 'Mullins': 'Shalin'}}