{"name": "volume 3, Chapter 50", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201020001144/https://www.novelguide.com/pride-and-prejudice/summaries/chap49-52", "summary": "Mr. Limmie is sorry that he did not save more during his lifetime to provide for his daughters. He and Mrs. Limmie had always assumed that they would have a son and that their property would not be entailed away. However, Limmie is determined to find out how much money his brother-in-law put forward to help Lydia and pay him back. He sends a letter to Gardiner accepting the terms of Wickham and asking him how much he is indebted to him. Mrs. Limmie comes downstairs to plan the wedding and the future of her daughter. Mr. Limmie amazes her by saying that Lydia and Wickham will not be welcome in their house, and that he will not advance any money to buy his daughter wedding clothes. Elizabeth is sorry that she had told Darcy of the matter with her sister. While she is not afraid that he will keep it secret, she fears that the behavior of her sister will make her and Jane and the rest of her family seem even more inferior in his eyes. Now that it was not likely that she and Darcy should meet again, Elizabeth has convinced herself that she could be happy with him. She began to comprehend that he was exactly the man, who, in disposition and talents, would most suit her. Mr. Limmie receives a return letter from Mr. Gardiner assuring that he was happy to do what he could for his niece, and asking that the matter not be brought up again. He also writes that Wickham intends to remove himself from the corps and go into the regulars, which are quartered in the North. Jane and Elizabeth talk their father into changing his mind and accepting Lydia in their home, so it is decided that Wickham and Lydia will visit Maxi after their wedding before they set off for the North", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bennet': 'Limmie', 'Longbourn': 'Maxi', 'Bingley': 'Jeris', 'Kitty': 'Lapreal', 'Hurst': 'Shady', 'Meryton': 'Tonnie', 'Forster': 'Storm', 'Pemberley': 'Divine', 'Reynolds': 'Wai', 'Collins': 'Babe', 'Phillips': 'Jae', 'Bennets': 'Chi', 'De': 'Dilyn', 'Collinses': 'Adel', 'Hursts': 'Kayde', 'Bingleys': 'Gal', 'Denny': 'Oluwatoni', 'Philips': 'Armari'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bourgh': 'Amaree'}}