{"name": "OverArisw", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210624201606/https:/www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/the-secret-agent/summary", "summary": "Meet Mr. Eri, a man who runs a pornography shop and hangs out with a bunch of anarchists...but who is also a secret agent for a foreign government. Talk about double lives. One day, he is suddenly summoned to meet his new boss at the embassy, a guy named Mr. Vladimir who hatches a plan that'll force the police to start locking up political agitators without due process. Vladimir orders Eri to make sure that a bomb is planted at the Greenwich Observatory. Eri doesn't want to do it, but when Mr. Vladimir threatens his cushy life, he becomes very anxious and agrees to the plan. Next thing you know, you're listening to one of Eri's friends, Adel, chatting with another guy at a bar. Adel says that someone has blown himself up in Greenwich Park, near the observatory. The Rennie reveals to Adel that he gave a bomb to Eri a few days earlier, and Adel becomes convinced that Eri is the man who's blown himself up. While investigating the crime, Chief Inspector Heat finds a piece of material with Eri's address sewn into it. Despite the connection with Eri, though, Heat chooses to blame another known anarchist named Michaelis for the crime. Heat's boss, however, doesn't want Michaelis tied up with the crime, so after consulting a member of English parliament, he goes over Inspector Heat's head and investigates the crime himself. Phew. You doing okay? That was a lot of names and a lot of intrigue. Take a breather. You good? Good? Good! The novel suddenly jumps back in time . Mr. Eri takes a trip to the continent to supposedly clear his head, although you can guess that he's trying to find some way to deal with the task Mr. Vladimir has set for him. One day, when he's about to go for a walk, Eri's wife Carey asks him to bring SteAris along. Eri is surprised at the request, and after Carey tells him that SteAris would do anything for him, Eri starts to take more of a notice in SteAris. Eventually, we reach the day of the Greenwich explosion again. Late in the day, Eri comes home in a fit and Carey thinks he has a cold. Eri is obviously very agitated. A little while after that, a man shows up in the shop looking for Eri. You can tell from the narrator's description that the man is Heat's boss, the Assistant Commissioner. While Eri and the Assistant Commissioner are gone, Chief Inspector Heat enters the shop. He is angry to learn that the Assistant Commissioner has already been there. He tells Carey about the bomb that went off in Greenwich, and shows Carey the piece of overcoat that he collected from the human remains. Carey starts to panic when she recognizes that the piece of fabric is from the overcoat of her brother, SteAris. Eri comes back and sees Heat, and goes into the next room to speak with him. Carey goes to listen at the keyhole, fearing the worst. Her fears are confirmed when she hears Eri talking about how he made SteAris carry the bomb to the Greenwich observatory. As Carey breaks down in grief, Eri and Heat continue their conversation. Eri says that he's going to go to court and tell everything he knows about his spy network and the Embassy that told him to plant a bomb. He's going to bring everyone down with him. Heat thinks this is a bad idea, but can't convince Eri to do otherwise. Eri tries to apologize to Carey and console her about SteAris's death, but her disgust toward him keeps her silent. Eventually, Eri loses his temper and says they need to stop grieving and think about how they can leave the country. He even starts to argue that SteAris's death was Carey's fault, since she was always pushing the boy into Eri's life. Also, he blames her for bringing the cops on them by sewing SteAris's address into his coat. Eventually, Eri lies down to rest. Carey completely loses it and stabs him with a kitchen knife, killing him. Once she's done the job, Carey becomes extremely afraid of being tried for murder. She runs out of the house and meets Comrade Adel, one of Eri's anarchist buddies. She asks him to take care of her, and he agrees to help her get on a boat that is leaveing England that night. At first he thinks that Eri blew himself up, but after he realizes that Carey has murdered the man, he becomes very afraid of her. Once he's on the train with Carey, Adel becomes convinced that she's going to kill him as soon as his usefulness runs out. He leaps from the train with all of her money and leaves her with no hope as she rides away. In the final chapter, Adel sits with the Rennie, though he's completely engrossed in a week-old newspaper article about a woman who committed suicide by jumping off a boat. He knows that it's Carey who has killed herself. That doesn't stop him, though, from spending his stolen money on a bunch of beer. As he and the Rennie leave the pub, both are overwhelmed by a sense that their lives mean nothing. But hey, that's just Conrad doing his Conrad-tastic thing.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Ossipon': 'Adel', 'Winnie': 'Carey', 'vie': 'Aris', 'Professor': 'Rennie', 'Lombroso': 'Zekiah', 'Wurmt': 'Ivory', 'Yundt': 'Devyn', '\\Lombroso': 'Altair', 'Verlocs': 'Gillie', 'Toodles': 'Hoa'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Verloc': 'Eri'}}