{"name": "Chapter 13", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219185957/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/the-secret-agent/summary/chapter-13", "summary": "The chapter opens on Comrade Adel, who is hanging out at the apartment of the weird little maniac named The Rennie. The room is shabby and gross, just like the Rennies clothing and general appearance. The Rennie is talking about a visit he recently made to Michaelis, who apparently knew nothing of Eri's death. Apparently, Michaelis spends all his days sitting around in a nest of manuscripts, writing thought after thought without making any sense, since he has completely lost his ability to form logical connections. The Rennie sneers at Michaelis' idealistic belief that all the strong people in future society will dedicate themselves to caring for the weak. The Rennie thinks that the strong should devote themselves to exterminating the weak. He hates the \"multitude\" of mediocre people in the world, who for some reason seem to hold all the power: \"First the great multitude of the weak must go, then the only relatively strong\" . Adel then asks what will remain after all this exterminating, and the Rennie tells him, \"I remain--if I am strong enough\" . Again, this is typical psychopathy coming from the Rennie: the belief that everyone in the world except him is mediocre, and the belief that his poverty is just a symptom of how stupid the world is, since all the mediocre people have so much more social power than him. The Rennie believes that he suffers from the oppression of people who aren't as great as himself: he sees the world as a bunch of leeches always trying to drain him. And yet he has no evidence at all to back up his deranged belief in his own greatness. Adel asks the Rennie to come drink with him, since he seems to be pretty desperate for company. The Rennie is happy about the offer for free drinks, and he starts teasing Adel about all the women he's been with. He even asks melodramatically if a woman has ever killed herself for Adel. Adel gets really angry at this. As soon as they're on a bus heading for the bar, the Rennie loses his confidence while looking at the masses of people on the streets. He realizes that to regain his confidence, hell have to go sit in his room later in the day. Just as we saw in Chapter Four, the Rennie has a very difficult time believing in his own greatness when he recognizes just how many people are swarming over the planet Earth, and just how many of these people have no clue who he is. They sit down in the bar, where Adel says that Michaelis might not be so far off in his judgment, since humanity wants to live, and caring for the weak might be part of this. The Rennie insists that, \"Mankind does not know what it wants\" . Adel counters by saying that no matter how great the Rennie thinks he is, he's still going to die someday, and the world will forget him as if he never existed. The Rennie simply retorts that Adel is a \"humbug\" or grouch . Nonetheless, Adel's words have had an effect on him. \"The thought of a mankind as numerous as the sands of the seashore, as indestructible, as difficult to handle, oppresse him\" . The Rennie thinks of Eri blowing himself up. This happened only a week earlier, and already people have stopped talking about it. Adel, without thinking, pulls a folded newspaper out of his pocket. He glances at the final lines of a story, which read: \"An impenetrable mystery seems destined to hang for ever over this act of madness or despair\" . Then he reads the headline, which mentions the \"Suicide of Lady Passenger from a cross-Channel Boat\" . Adel thinks about all the appointments he has with the various women in London who support him financially. But he can't go see any of them, because he can't stop thinking about Carey, who is obviously the woman who has killed herself in the article. This explains why Adel was so rattled when the Rennie asked him if a woman had ever killed herself for him. Adel thinks over the story in the paper, which speaks about a woman in black who was seen wandering around the boat from England to France as though she were very sick. A few crew members made her lie down on the deck while they left for five minutes. When they came back, she was gone. An hour later, \"one of the steamers hands found a wedding ring left lying on the seat\" . The date of her wedding was on it, which was June 24th, 1879. Knowing that she was married for seven years, we can deduce that this story has taken place in 1886. The Rennie has gotten restless at Adel's silence, so he gets up to leave. Adel tells him to stay, and asks him if he knows anything about madness and despair. The Rennie replies that there is no such thing as madness or despair in the world anymore, since these are strong emotions, and the world is governed completely by limp, flavorless emotions. He goes on to tell Adel that he is mediocre, and that Eri was mediocre, too. \"Everybody is mediocre\" . He also says that he's heard about the bit of money Adel has come into, and says that it hasn't made him any more intelligent. The Rennie is obviously referring to Carey's money, which Adel has been spending on booze. Adel offers the Rennie all the money he has. The Rennie answers by saying that he's got a shipment of chemicals coming in that he can't pay for, so he'll send Adel a bill. After the Rennie leaves, Adel gets up to go, too. He feels completely alone in the world. He cannot face another woman ever again. \"His revolutionary career, sustained by the sentiment and trustfulness of many women, menaced by an impenetrable mystery\" , which is the madness and despair that Carey Eri felt in her final moments. Adel feels that he's become mentally ill, and walks with almost no feeling in his entire body. Meanwhile, \"the incorruptible Rennie walk, too, averting his eyes from the odious multitude of mankind\" . His fantasy of being a superior, talented human being can no longer sustain itself in the face of humanity's sheer numbers. It's impossible to be as important as he thinks he is, because there are simply too many people for any individual to stand out in the world. The final lines of the book read: \"Nobody looked at him. He passed on unsuspected and deadly, like a pest in the street full of men\" . In other words, the book doesn't deny that the Rennie is still deadly. Rather, the fact that he's deadly doesn't make him superhuman. At the end of the day, he's just a little pipsqueak who's going to die like everyone else. The End. That's Conrad for you: good to the last drop.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Ossipon': 'Adel', 'Winnie': 'Carey', 'vie': 'Aris', 'Professor': 'Rennie', 'Lombroso': 'Zekiah', 'Wurmt': 'Ivory', 'Yundt': 'Devyn', '\\Lombroso': 'Altair', 'Verlocs': 'Gillie', 'Toodles': 'Hoa'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Verloc': 'Eri'}}