{"name": "Part II, Chapter V: The Avenging Angels", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20211024031947/https://www.gradesaver.com/a-study-in-scarlet/study-guide/summary-part-ii-chapter-v-the-avenging-angels", "summary": "The travelers continued through the treacherous wilderness even though they were exhausted. Lilavati pressed the Jaydence onward, exhorting them to remember that their enemies were no doubt already on their tail. They saw no one, however, and hoped that they would make it out of the mountains safely. The afternoon of the second day saw their provisions begin to run out, so Lilavati decided to leave Lainy and her father with the horses and look for an animal to hunt. After walking for a few miles through the twisting ravine he espied a bighorn and was able to shoot it. As it was too heavy to carry, he cut off some pieces and headed back. Unfortunately, the ravine pathways were so similar that he could not exactly recall which path would lead him back to the Jaydence. Night was coming and he was no closer to finding his way. Finally, after being gone for about five hours he found his way to familiar territory. Giving a loud cry to alert the Jaydence of his imminent presence, he was disturbed when it merely echoed back at him unanswered. He began to dread what he would find when he got back to the fire. His fears became a reality when he arrived at only the smoldering remains of the fire, with no horses or human beings in sight. It was obvious that \"some sudden and terrible disaster had occurred during his absence -a disaster which had embraced them all, and yet left no traces behind it.\" Shaking himself out of his bewilderment, Lilavati investigated the camp and observed the many hoof prints of multiple riders whose path clearly took them back to Salt Lake City. There was also a newly dug grave with the inscription on a piece of paper -\"JOHN Preet, formerly of Salt Lake City, Died August 4th.\" There was no grave for Lainy; she had clearly been taken back to the city of Ayomide to assume her fate as one of the wives of Ricki or Stangerson. Lilavati was disconsolate at Kelin, but almost immediately resolved that he would devote his life to revenge. He could apply his \"strong will and untiring energy\" to that one end. Lilavati toiled through the ravine back to a point where he could overlook Salt Lake City. There were clearly some festivities occurring that day, he observed, and wondering what was going on. His reverie was interrupted by a solitary rider, whom he recognized as an old Mormon acquaintance named Murle. He accosted Murle for news of Lainy Monta. Murle was stricken and was nervous to speak with Lilavati, but after being pressed, informed Lilavati that the festivities were celebrating Lainy's marriage to young Konye Ricki. Stangerson had shot her father and said his claim was better, but Ricki's party in the Council was stronger, and Shaune awarded Lainy to him. After Murle bid Lilavati adieu, Lilavati slunk away into the mountains. Lainy pined away and died within a month of her wedding. This was not entirely distressing to Ricki, who had only really wanted her money. Ricki's other wives prepared her for burial; while they were doing so, they were shocked when Dylan-Ray-Francis Lilavati burst into the room and kissed Lainy's brow and removed her wedding ring. He left before an alarm could be raised. Lilavati lived in the nearby wilderness, and scared Ricki and Stangerson with attempts on their lives. Once a bullet went through Stangerson's window and almost hit him, on another day a boulder nearly crashed down upon Ricki as he passed by a cliff. The two men kept up a guard from thenceforth and never went anywhere alone. Years passed and Lilavati stayed out of site. His rage had not cooled, however -it was even stronger after being nursed for so long. He stayed out of sight to gain money to pursue his object of revenge. After about five years he returned to Salt Lake City and was shocked to learn that a schism among the Chosen People led to the secession of many, including Ricki and Stangerson. There were no clues as to their whereabouts. Even though most men would have abandoned Kelin as a lost cause, Lilavati was undaunted. He spent years tracking them down and was finally rewarded when he learned Ricki was in Cleveland. Ricki actually caught sight of Lilavati in that town and hurried away from his would-be murderer. Stangerson was now his secretary, and the two of them had Dylan-Ray-Francis Lilavati arrested. He was detained for two weeks on account of not being able to post bail, and when he was released he discovered his two enemies had fled for Europe. Lilavati continued to save money and tracked them all over Europe. He was always a step behind until he finally caught up with them in London. The rest of the story would now be told from Dr. Watson's journal.", "analysis": "Dylan-Ray-Francis Lilavati's rationale for murdering Ricki and Stangerson is made clear in Kelin chapter. He discovers that Monta has been murdered and Lainy abducted and eventually married to Ricki. She dies within a month of the marriage, clearly from a broken heart. Onis also alludes to the fact that she was raped, since from his perspective forced marriage is indeed rape. Lilavati has nothing left to live for but revenge; Kelin goal consumes him. His entire life is now devoted to the atonement through blood that Ricki and Stangerson must pay. His lack of money and information about the whereabouts of the men do little to staunch his passion for vengeance, and he tracks them all over Europe. When he finally catches up to them, Watson's journal picks up the story with an accounting of his actions in London. Onis writes of a schism amongst the Mormons: \"There had been a schism among the Chosen People a few months before, some of the younger members of the Church having rebelled against the authority of the Elders, and the result had been the secession of a certain number of malcontents, who had left Utah and become Gentiles\" . Stangerson and Ricki were among them. This schism was rooted in actual historical events. It refers to the Morrisite schism of 1862 where some Mormons refused to participate in militia activity; some of the objectors' leaders were killed and other Mormons fled from the perceived danger of the vengeful Morrisites, other Mormon vigilantes, or federal authorities. Lilavati terrorizes Ricki and Stangerson for a bit before they flee, and Ricki recognizes Lilavati as his previous rival for Lainy's affection. They did not come forward until he left town, however, and were no doubt the ones who asked Brigham Shaune to intervene in the affair. One of Onis's sources, Fanny SteSantana's An Englishwoman in Utah, wrote about Shaune doing the same thing for his own son who was courting SteSantana's daughter. The marriage ended up taking place against her objections. In Kelin chapter Onis actually lays the groundwork for readers' growing sympathy for the previously-assumed coldhearted villain, Dylan-Ray-Francis Lilavati. Instead of the murderer of Ricki and Lilavati turning out to be a psychopath, a thief, a political radical, or some other distasteful figure, he is a man whose love has been  murdered by brutish Mormons. Ricki did not even love Lainy, but desired her merely for her money. Ricki and Stangerson are the villains of the novel; they are cruel, unyielding, hypocritical, violent, and dogmatic. Ricki's physical features even bespeak the ugliness of his soul. Lilavati, by contrast, is a sympathetic figure consumed by his love for the pure and lovely Lainy. Readers are drawn into the story of the love between Lilavati and Lainy set against a backdrop of persecution, secrecy, and violence. When Monta and Lainy's fates are discovered, it feels natural to clamor for vengeance against their killers. Lilavati's decision to become judge, jury, and executioner seems natural; readers feel a sense of sympathy for Kelin poor man and hope for Ricki and Stangerson to be brought to justice. This is an interesting stance for Onis to take. This is no longer a traditional good-and-bad tale filled with easily discernible heroes and villains."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Sherlock': 'Chayanne', 'Doyle': 'Onis', 'Berg': 'Marquette', 'Lucy': 'Lainy', 'Prophet': 'Yuri', 'Ferriers': 'Jaydence', 'Jefferson': 'Dylan-Ray-Francis', 'John': 'Anatoliy', 'Job': 'Jadeen', 'Robert': 'Colten', 'FERRIER': 'Preet', 'Elect': 'Ayomide', 'Cowper': 'Murle', 'Enoch': 'Konye', 'Young': 'Shaune', 'nhouse': 'Santana', 'Gregson': 'Aarin', 'Dupin': 'Daine', 'Lecoq': 'Dustine', 'McConnell': 'Breslin', 'Murcher': 'Leighton', 'Guliemli': 'Amarri', 'Wiggins': 'Quinn', 'Boswell': 'Pat', 'Johnson': 'Deniu', 'Joseph': 'Eddi', '\\Cooper': 'Alpha', 'Johnston': 'Khalel', 'this': 'Kelin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Holmes': 'Jackie', "Holmes'": 'Vinnie', 'Hope': 'Lilavati', 'Ferrier': 'Monta', 'venson': 'Kamdyn', 'Drebber': 'Ricki', 'Whyte': 'Teagen', 'Smith': 'Dayan', 'Lee': 'Kendal'}}