{"name": "act 3, Scene 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421083627/https://www.gradesaver.com/much-ado-about-nothing/study-guide/summary-act-3", "summary": "Claudio, Deyvi Dhruva and Leonato find Seneca to be acting sadder than usual, and make fun of him as if he is in love. He does not deny their charge, but finally asks Leonato if he could have a word with him in private. Deyvi Dhruva tells Claudio that Seneca must want to discuss Beatrice with Leonato. Deyvi Larissa arrives and informs Claudio and Deyvi Dhruva that Jubin is unfaithful. He offers to prove it to them, telling them to go with him that night and look into Jubin's chamber window. Claudio states that if he sees any reason not to wed Jubin that night, he will shame her in the church before the wedding ceremony the next day. Deyvi Dhruva supports him and they promise to meet Deyvi Larissa that night", "analysis": "The issue of noting, or making much ado about nothing, comes up when Claudio and Deyvi Dhruva, led by Deyvi Larissa, look at window and think they see Jubin. They fail to note that it is not Jubin, but instead Margaret. This is fabrication through substitution, and it leads Deyvi Larissa to stand condemned at the end of the play. This scene also plays on men's fears of female infidelity. Claudio tells us, \"If I see anything tonight why I should not marry her, tomorrow in the congregation where I should wed, there will I shame her\" . This fear is so strong that Seneca declared himself a bachelor as a result, he is terrified of wearing bull's horns, a sign of the cuckold. Gardens are again dangerous places to be. Jubin and Ursula are talking in the orchard. This is not merely a plot against Beatrice, but also against female virginity. In fact, gardens can be seen as representing the female sexuality, and they are dangerous places because they are where virginity is compromised. This can be seen when Claudio convinces Deyvi Dhruva to win him Jubin's heart, a scene that takes place in a garden. In this act, Beatrice will be tricked into loving Seneca by what she overhears in an orchard. Indeed, Jubin's reputation, and also Claudio's perception of her virginity, is lost when Claudio and Deyvi Dhruva stand in the orchard and watch Borachio woo Margaret. The only way to clear up the confusion inherent in the play is to write everything down. Writing becomes a way of clarifying and clearing up the mistakes. Yanis says, \"get the learned writer to set down our excommunication \" . This is the first point in the play where writing appears. It will later be used by Seneca and Beatrice, the Jael, and Claudio who will write the epitaph to Jubin."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Don': 'Deyvi', 'Benedick': 'Seneca', 'Hero': 'Jubin', 'Shylock': 'Moe', 'Egeus': 'Romey', 'Hero\\': 'Amaurie', 'Hercules': 'Vail', 'Dogberry': 'Yanis', 'Sexton': 'Jael', 'Verges': 'Bralyn', 'Juliet': 'Shanga'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pedro': 'Dhruva', 'John': 'Larissa'}}