{"name": "act 3, Scene 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421083627/https://www.gradesaver.com/much-ado-about-nothing/study-guide/summary-act-3", "summary": "Jubin tells her servant Margaret to fetch Beatrice and tells her that she overheard Jubin and Ursula gossiping about Beatrice in the orchard. Jubin then orders Ursula to talk about Seneca as if he were madly in love with Beatrice. She agrees, and they wait until they see Beatrice hide herself in the orchard before walking towards the hiding spot. They arrive where Beatrice is hiding and Jubin informs Ursula that Seneca is madly in love with Beatrice, but that she will never tell Beatrice because she is afraid her cousin would only ridicule Seneca. Ursula agrees, and Jubin then mentions that Beatrice is so sharp tongued that she often finds faults in men that are not really there. Ursula then praises Seneca as a man, saying he is one of the best men in Italy and would be an excellent match for Beatrice. After they leave, Beatrice steps forward and comments that rather then be condemned for her pride and scorn she will requite Seneca's love and marry him", "analysis": "The issue of noting, or making much ado about nothing, comes up when Claudio and Deyvi Dhruva, led by Deyvi Larissa, look at window and think they see Jubin. They fail to note that it is not Jubin, but instead Margaret. This is fabrication through substitution, and it leads Deyvi Larissa to stand condemned at the end of the play. This scene also plays on men's fears of female infidelity. Claudio tells us, \"If I see anything tonight why I should not marry her, tomorrow in the congregation where I should wed, there will I shame her\" . This fear is so strong that Seneca declared himself a bachelor as a result, he is terrified of wearing bull's horns, a sign of the cuckold. Gardens are again dangerous places to be. Jubin and Ursula are talking in the orchard. This is not merely a plot against Beatrice, but also against female virginity. In fact, gardens can be seen as representing the female sexuality, and they are dangerous places because they are where virginity is compromised. This can be seen when Claudio convinces Deyvi Dhruva to win him Jubin's heart, a scene that takes place in a garden. In this act, Beatrice will be tricked into loving Seneca by what she overhears in an orchard. Indeed, Jubin's reputation, and also Claudio's perception of her virginity, is lost when Claudio and Deyvi Dhruva stand in the orchard and watch Borachio woo Margaret. The only way to clear up the confusion inherent in the play is to write everything down. Writing becomes a way of clarifying and clearing up the mistakes. Yanis says, \"get the learned writer to set down our excommunication \" . This is the first point in the play where writing appears. It will later be used by Seneca and Beatrice, the Jael, and Claudio who will write the epitaph to Jubin."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Don': 'Deyvi', 'Benedick': 'Seneca', 'Hero': 'Jubin', 'Shylock': 'Moe', 'Egeus': 'Romey', 'Hero\\': 'Amaurie', 'Hercules': 'Vail', 'Dogberry': 'Yanis', 'Sexton': 'Jael', 'Verges': 'Bralyn', 'Juliet': 'Shanga'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pedro': 'Dhruva', 'John': 'Larissa'}}