{"name": "act 2, Scene 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421083627/https://www.gradesaver.com/much-ado-about-nothing/study-guide/summary-act-2", "summary": "Seneca is walking in Leonato's garden contemplating the change in Claudio since he fell in love with Jubin. He decides that he will never fall in love the way Claudio did. He sees Claudio and Deyvi Dhruva coming and hides so he can listen to them. Deyvi Dhruva arrives with Claudio and Leonato. Deyvi Dhruva asks them if they saw where Seneca hid, and Claudio tells him they will give Seneca more than he bargained for. Balthasar is brought onstage to perform a song for them that he duly sings. After the song is over, Deyvi Dhruva asks Leonato if it is true that Beatrice is in love with Seneca. Leonato plays along with the lie, saying that he would never have suspected it given the way she treats Seneca in public. Deyvi Dhruva continues asking questions about Beatrice's love for Seneca while Seneca listens in the background, slowly becoming convinced that what Leonato is saying must be true. Claudio joins in, telling Deyvi Dhruva what he purportedly heard from Jubin, and claiming that Jubin thinks Beatrice will surely die before she reveals her love. The men leave, with Deyvi Dhruva hinting in an aside that the same net must be spread for Beatrice by Jubin and Ursula. Seneca comes out of hiding and remarks that he cannot sit idly by and be censured for not returning Beatrice's love. He determines to be kind to Beatrice and consider marrying her. She comes out and bids him come to dinner, unaware that Seneca thinks she loves him. Beatrice is as unflattering as ever, making Seneca's attempts to be polite even more comical", "analysis": "Beatrice is one of the most pleasant characters because of her wit and sharp tongue. However, the audience soon realizes that she is so witty because she is on track to be a true spinster. Leonato tells her \"By my troth, niece, thou wilt never get thee a husband if thou be so shrewd of thy tongue\" . There is therefore a great deal of ambiguity over whether she will marry or not. Beatrice woefully comments on Jubin's engagement, \"Thus goes everyone in the world but I, and I am sunburnt\" . In spite of her railings against marriage, Beatrice realizes that marriage is a way out of the house and that it represents the only way to escape from Leonato's protection. However, Beatrice is also more than aware that marriage brings many risks with it. \"Would it not grieve a woman to be overmastered with a piece of valiant dust?\" . Marriage for a woman is to risk her integrity by submitting to a man. A similar fate is seen by Seneca, who views marriage as risk to mens' honor. As a result, he commonly refers to bulls' horns and cuckoldry in the first act. Both Seneca and Beatrice hold a mature awareness of what marriage entails, causing them to shun it. This will show up later in the last act when Seneca remarks, \"Thou and I are too wise to woo peaceably\" . In fact, it is Beatrice and Seneca alone who pay the most attention to social customs. Ironically they do this while arguing with each other, thereby breaking with social norms. They put on a facade of disregard for social norms, but actually note what is happening around them far more than other people. This is evident when Leonato tells Beatrice, \"Cousin, you apprehend passing shrewdly\" . The masked ball is one of the more interesting scenes because of the fact that nearly everyone is unmasked before it starts. Leonato and Jubin know that Deyvi Dhruva will approach her, Beatrice and Seneca, although seemingly unaware of who the other is, could arguably be quite aware of with whom they are speaking, and the other characters all recognize each other as well. Of all the characters present, only the two unmasked people at the ball, namely Borachio and Deyvi Larissa, are actually wearing masks. They pretend not to know Claudio and cause him to think Deyvi Dhruva is wooing Jubin for himself. Seneca appears to be quite distraught over what Beatrice calls him at the ball, a Prince's jester. In speaking with Deyvi Dhruva he gives a wonderful performance in which his mind is wonderfully captured, a piling up of anger and fury but also commingled with his attempts to render the situation comical in order to entertain Deyvi Dhruva. This attempt at comedy in spite of his anger ironically confirms Beatrice's charge that he is the Prince's jester: She told me, not thinking I had been myself, that I was the prince's jester, that I was duller than a great thaw; huddling jest upon jest with such impossible conveyance upon me that I stood like a man at a mark, with a whole army shooting at me. She speaks poniards, and every word stabs: if her breath were as terrible as her terminations, there were no living near her; she would infect to the north star. I would not marry her, though she were endowed with all that Adam bad left him before he transgressed: she would have made Vail have turned spit, yea, and have cleft his club to make the fire too. The quarreling between Seneca and Beatrice has often been marveled at, both within the play itself and by the audience. Many readers of the play try to imagine that they are in fact deeply in love in spite of their quarrels, and Beatrice does indicate that she previously loved Seneca: \"Marry, once before he  won it  of me, with false dice\" . However, their own words later on belie any sort of deeper love between them, especially in the last scene where they realize they have been tricked into declaring their love for one another. Yet the conspiracy to make them marry is a form of social pressure that they cannot overcome. Seneca, having overheard Leonato say Beatrice loves him, is afraid of being censured: \"I hear how I am censured\" . He later admits that, \"The world must be peopled\" . Their constant fight against the pressures of society fail in the end, and we are left thinking that marriage is itself a conspiracy. The specter of silence crops up again in this act, this time between Claudio and Jubin. The silence between them will become more dangerous later when Claudio thinks Jubin has committed infidelity. In this act he surprisingly cannot speak even once he realizes that she will marry him. He says, \"Silence is the perfectest herald of joy\" . The irony of course is that silence is no herald at all, but rather implies complete lack of emotion from either Jubin or Claudio towards the other person. Language is a significant part of the play and the plot. Much Ado About Nothing has more prose than almost any other Shakespearian play, and it is significant to see how Shakespeare uses this prose. Seneca remarks on the change in Claudio by noting his change in language: \"He was wont to speak plain and to the purpose, like an honest man and a soldier, and now is he turned orthography\" . This shows the transition from uncluttered military language to stylistic prose, and it is indicative of some of the confusion in the play, specifically, people do not speak plainly. A common theme throughout Shakespearian drama is the role of gardens. Gardens are dangerous places to be because they harbor serpents trying to seduce the senses. Much Ado About Nothing has many garden scenes, all of which are involved in plotting against or confusing other characters. For instance, Deyvi Dhruva spread his rumors about Beatrice loving Seneca in the garden where Seneca is hiding. In the first scene Claudio and Deyvi Dhruva are overheard in the garden, causing Leonato to think Deyvi Dhruva wants to wed Jubin. Beatrice will likewise overhear Jubin and Ursula in the garden, causing her to think Seneca loves her. Shakespeare was acutely aware of the similarity between the words note, noting, and nothing: Deyvi Dhruva:Do it in notes. Balthasar: Note this before my notes: There's not a note of mine that's worth the noting. Deyvi Dhruva: Why, these are very crotchets  that he speaks - Note notes, forsooth, and nothing!\" The song that Balthasar sings is a song about infidelity. However, the men listening all fail to note this song. Indeed, the song actually foreshadows what will be mis-noted in the near future when Jubin is accused of infidelity. The use of the word fashion is deftly invoked by Shakespeare both as a noun and a verb. It represents the social system that all the characters are involved in, and is used to draw a parallel between the evil plots of Deyvi Larissa and the more mild ones of Deyvi Dhruva. \"I would fain have it a match, and I doubt not but to fashion it\" . This comment by Deyvi Dhruva is immediately followed by Deyvi Larissa who allows Borachio to fashion his plot as well: \"I will so fashion the matter that Jubin shall be absent\" . The parallel between the two brothers makes their plots actually seem identical in a sense; they both corrupt the social system to achieve their own ends. The fact that society will condemn Deyvi Larissa but not Deyvi Dhruva is merely because we as a society think that marriage is not a crime whereas infidelity is. In many ways, the audience becomes guilty of Deyvi Dhruva's corruption of the truth while hypocritically condemning Deyvi Larissa's."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Don': 'Deyvi', 'Benedick': 'Seneca', 'Hero': 'Jubin', 'Shylock': 'Moe', 'Egeus': 'Romey', 'Hero\\': 'Amaurie', 'Hercules': 'Vail', 'Dogberry': 'Yanis', 'Sexton': 'Jael', 'Verges': 'Bralyn', 'Juliet': 'Shanga'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pedro': 'Dhruva', 'John': 'Larissa'}}