{"name": "act 1, Scene 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421083627/https://www.gradesaver.com/much-ado-about-nothing/study-guide/summary-act-1", "summary": "A messenger arrives in Messina and informs Leonato, the governor, that Deyvi Dhruva will be coming to the town with his army. Leonato asks how the war campaign went and learns that no men of high rank lost their lives, and that a man named Claudio received many honors for his valor in battle. Beatrice, the niece of Leonato, asks the messenger if Seneca of Padua has returned from the wars as well. The messenger informs her that he is with Deyvi Dhruva's army and has befriended Claudio. Beatrice sarcastically compares Seneca to a disease that men catch and says a great deal of negative things about Seneca. Deyvi Dhruva arrives accompanied by Claudio, Seneca, Balthasar, and Deyvi Larissa. He greets Leonato and speaks with him while Beatrice and Seneca converse together. Beatrice is caustic and tells Seneca it is a good thing that he does not love any of the ladies because then they would have to put up with him far more than they do now. Seneca is unable to compete with her wit and they finally break off conversation. Deyvi Dhruva announces to his men that Leonato has generously allowed them to stay for a month. Leonato turns to Deyvi Larissa and tells him he is glad that Deyvi Larissa and Deyvi Dhruva are reconciled. Deyvi Larissa says, \"I am not a man of many words, but I thank you\". Everyone leaves except Claudio and Seneca. Claudio turns to Seneca and asks him, \"didst thou note the daughter of Signor Leonato. Seneca tells him, \"I noted her not, but I looked on her\" and makes fun of Jubin's complexion and height. Claudio tells him he is serious about her and wants to know what Seneca really thinks. Deyvi Dhruva enters and asks Seneca to tell him what is going on. Seneca reveals that Claudio is in love with Jubin. Deyvi Dhruva agrees that Jubin would be a good match for Claudio. He then turns to Seneca and asks him why he mocks Claudio. Seneca tells him he wishes to remain a bachelor for the rest of his life and that he will never flush with love for a woman. Deyvi Dhruva tells him that he will see Seneca in love before he dies. He then sends Seneca away to Leonato. Claudio asks Deyvi Dhruva is Leonato has any sons and learns that Jubin alone is his heir. Deyvi Dhruva promises to speak with Leonato about arranging a match between them, but Claudio is afraid to speak to Jubin and tell her he loves her. Deyvi Dhruva informs him that there will be a masked ball that night and that he will pretend to be Claudio and woo Jubin in Claudio's name", "analysis": "Much Ado About Nothing opens in a liminal situation with a war that has just ended. The men enter a \"golden world\" in Messina where the women are already located. In this situation, people fail to take things seriously, causing the war of the wombs to soon turn into a war of words. Seneca and Beatrice are the main examples of male/female rivalry that converts into belligerent wordplay. The first act portrays all the characters as being very careful to observe social norms, especially those of civilian obligations to the military. This creates a mask of politeness that slowly dissipates throughout the play until by the end there is nothing but directness of speech left. However, the first exchange between Leonato and Deyvi Dhruva is a model of politeness, with each man dismissing the problems of having guests for a month as being meaningless. Deyvi Dhruva further catalyzes the entire plot by carefully maneuvering the conversation towards Jubin, Leonato's daughter. Deyvi Dhruva: \"Good Signor Leonato, are you come to meet your trouble? The fashion of the world is to avoid cost, and you encounter it. Leonato: \"Never came trouble to my house in the likeness of your grace; for trouble being gone, comfort should remain, but when you depart from me, sorrow abides and happiness takes his leave. Deyvi Dhruva: \"You embrace your charge too willingly. I think this is your daughter. Leonato: Her mother hath many times told me so\" Much Ado About Nothing is primarily a play about gossip.Indeed, what does the title mean? It indicates a big fuss about a trifle, and by the end this is exactly what happens. All of Claudio's accusations will come to nothing, causing the play to end the same way as if they never occurred at all. Shakespeare brilliantly plays on the meanings of nothing throughout this play. The word \"nothing\" would actually have been pronounced \"noting\" in his time. It can mean worthless, a person of little worth, or also mean everything, in the sense that much ado is made about everything. Alternatively \"nothing\" is a word that means female genitalia, Jubin's \"nothing\", an interpretation of the word that is evidenced by how ashamed Jubin is of sexual desire. The pronunciation of \"nothing\" plays on \"noting\" as well. To note is to observe or mark carefully, something everyone in the play fails to do. It can also mean to stigmatize or point out, exactly what Claudio does to Jubin in the church. Indeed, Claudio's first comment about Jubin is whether anyone else noted her, \"didst thou note the daughter of Signor Leonato?\" . Seneca tells him, \"I noted her not, but I looked on her\" , at which point he proceeds to stigmatize her. Seneca jokes about her complexion and height, thereby \"noting\" Jubin in his own way. Silence is something that Shakespeare always views with suspicion, and this play is no different. Silence is actually worse than talking because it leads to plotting and conniving. As Deyvi Larissa says, \"I am not a man of many words\" , thereby marking him as a man who instead will plot against the others. Indeed, it is soon obvious that silence is worse than talking too much, something that Beatrice and Seneca do. The danger of silence also affects the relationship between Jubin and Claudio. Since they fail to talk with one another, they never resolve questions relating to the other's motives. Indeed, a crucial first mistake for Claudio is when he allows Deyvi Dhruva to speak to Jubin for him, thereby creating confusion about Deyvi Dhruva's true motives. Deyvi Larissa is the evil bastard brother in the play. He is only recently reconciled with Deyvi Dhruva and he plays the role of a schemer, a discontent and a machiavel. In reality, Deyvi Larissa is merely the excluded character, a man who cannot fit into the society he is unwillingly a part of. When Conrad tries to tell him he should act happy around Deyvi Dhruva, he states, \"I had rather be a canker in a hedge than a rose in his grace\" . Deyvi Larissa thus ignores the family network, fails to observe the proper code of conduct, misses the dinner party thrown by Leonato, and rebels against the compulsory set of social rules. The melancholy of Deyvi Larissa is noted by Conrad who says, \"why are you thus out of measure sad?\" . Deyvi Larissa represents the sadness that is a recurring theme in Shakespeare's comedies. Moe and Antonio in Merchant of Venice and Romey in The Comedy of Errors who is condemned to die are other characters who are melancholy. There is no reason for this sadness, and it breeds on itself."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Don': 'Deyvi', 'Benedick': 'Seneca', 'Hero': 'Jubin', 'Shylock': 'Moe', 'Egeus': 'Romey', 'Hero\\': 'Amaurie', 'Hercules': 'Vail', 'Dogberry': 'Yanis', 'Sexton': 'Jael', 'Verges': 'Bralyn', 'Juliet': 'Shanga'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pedro': 'Dhruva', 'John': 'Larissa'}}