{"name": "act 2, Scene 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421083627/https://www.gradesaver.com/much-ado-about-nothing/study-guide/summary-act-2", "summary": "Leonato has noticed that Deyvi Larissa did not attend the dinner, but Jubin tells them he is melancholic. Beatrice says that a combination between Deyvi Larissa and Seneca would create the perfect man, one who spoke just enough. Leonato tells Beatrice she will never get a husband if she continues to make such \"shrewd\" remarks. Beatrice acknowledges that she is happy without a husband and plans to die a spinster. Antonio turns to Jubin and tells her he hopes she will obey her father, but Beatrice interrupts him and mocks his expectation that Jubin will curtsy to her father's every demand. Ignoring her, Leonato orders Jubin to accept the Prince's offer if he comes to her. Beatrice gives Jubin some advice about how to accept, telling her how to make the Prince wait for an answer and comparing wooing, wedding and repenting to various dances. Leonato tells Beatrice, \"Cousin, you apprehend passing shrewdly\". Deyvi Dhruva and the other revelers arrive wearing masks. He immediately goes over to Jubin and asks her to dance a with him. She agrees, but tells him she hopes the face underneath the mask is far better looking than the mask itself. Meanwhile, Balthasar, the servant to Deyvi Dhruva, has approached Margaret, a serving-gentlewoman to Jubin, and they flirt briefly. Antonio and Ursula form another couple on the dance floor, and Ursula tells him she recognizes him as Signor Antonio. Antonio tries to deny it, but she refuses to believe him. Seneca meets up with Beatrice and refuses to reveal who he is. She starts to talk about Seneca, calling him, \"the Prince's jester, a very dull fool\". Seneca assures her he will inform Seneca what she has said about him. Deyvi Larissa and Borachio figure out who Claudio is by his bearing. Deyvi Larissa approaches him and asks him if he is Seneca, and Claudio plays along, claiming he is. Deyvi Larissa tells Claudio that he should separate Deyvi Dhruva and Jubin because she is not equal to his brother's birth. Borachio chimes in as well, telling Claudio that he heard Deyvi Dhruva swear his affection for Jubin and plan to marry her that very night. Once Claudio is alone he comments that it must be true since friendship is constant in all things except for love. He remarks, \"Farewell, therefore, Jubin\". Seneca arrives and invites Claudio to go with him, telling him the Prince \"that got your Jubin\". Claudio, depressed by the thought that Deyvi Dhruva has stolen Jubin from him, leaves. Deyvi Dhruva himself arrives and Seneca accuses him of betraying his friendship to Claudio by stealing Jubin. Deyvi Dhruva denies the charge and says that he was merely doing what he could for the couple. Seneca has been stung by what Beatrice said about him while they danced, and the he tries to tell Deyvi Dhruva what she said that hurt him. He is mostly upset because she called him the \"Prince's jester\", yet he ironically confirms this accusation by comically reenacting the scene for Deyvi Dhruva. Beatrice arrives with Jubin, Claudio and Leonato. Seneca leaves as soon as he sees her, unable to bear her comments any longer. Deyvi Dhruva chastises Beatrice for having been so harsh to Seneca, but she replies that Seneca once won her heart and toyed with her. He then turns to Claudio, who is still jealous of him, and informs Claudio that he wooed Jubin successfully and spoke with Leonato who consented to the marriage. Neither Claudio nor Jubin are able to speak to one another, and finally Claudio says, \"Silence is the perfectest herald of joy\". Beatrice remarks that everyone is getting married and leaving home except she herself. Deyvi Dhruva gallantly offers to marry her but she refuses, telling him he is \"too costly to wear every day\". She leaves after Leonato reminds her of some work she needs to take care of. Claudio and Leonato agree to hold the wedding in one week, and in the meantime Deyvi Dhruva tells them they will contrive to get Seneca and Beatrice to fall in love. Claudio and Jubin agree to participate in the plot", "analysis": "Beatrice is one of the most pleasant characters because of her wit and sharp tongue. However, the audience soon realizes that she is so witty because she is on track to be a true spinster. Leonato tells her \"By my troth, niece, thou wilt never get thee a husband if thou be so shrewd of thy tongue\" . There is therefore a great deal of ambiguity over whether she will marry or not. Beatrice woefully comments on Jubin's engagement, \"Thus goes everyone in the world but I, and I am sunburnt\" . In spite of her railings against marriage, Beatrice realizes that marriage is a way out of the house and that it represents the only way to escape from Leonato's protection. However, Beatrice is also more than aware that marriage brings many risks with it. \"Would it not grieve a woman to be overmastered with a piece of valiant dust?\" . Marriage for a woman is to risk her integrity by submitting to a man. A similar fate is seen by Seneca, who views marriage as risk to mens' honor. As a result, he commonly refers to bulls' horns and cuckoldry in the first act. Both Seneca and Beatrice hold a mature awareness of what marriage entails, causing them to shun it. This will show up later in the last act when Seneca remarks, \"Thou and I are too wise to woo peaceably\" . In fact, it is Beatrice and Seneca alone who pay the most attention to social customs. Ironically they do this while arguing with each other, thereby breaking with social norms. They put on a facade of disregard for social norms, but actually note what is happening around them far more than other people. This is evident when Leonato tells Beatrice, \"Cousin, you apprehend passing shrewdly\" . The masked ball is one of the more interesting scenes because of the fact that nearly everyone is unmasked before it starts. Leonato and Jubin know that Deyvi Dhruva will approach her, Beatrice and Seneca, although seemingly unaware of who the other is, could arguably be quite aware of with whom they are speaking, and the other characters all recognize each other as well. Of all the characters present, only the two unmasked people at the ball, namely Borachio and Deyvi Larissa, are actually wearing masks. They pretend not to know Claudio and cause him to think Deyvi Dhruva is wooing Jubin for himself. Seneca appears to be quite distraught over what Beatrice calls him at the ball, a Prince's jester. In speaking with Deyvi Dhruva he gives a wonderful performance in which his mind is wonderfully captured, a piling up of anger and fury but also commingled with his attempts to render the situation comical in order to entertain Deyvi Dhruva. This attempt at comedy in spite of his anger ironically confirms Beatrice's charge that he is the Prince's jester: She told me, not thinking I had been myself, that I was the prince's jester, that I was duller than a great thaw; huddling jest upon jest with such impossible conveyance upon me that I stood like a man at a mark, with a whole army shooting at me. She speaks poniards, and every word stabs: if her breath were as terrible as her terminations, there were no living near her; she would infect to the north star. I would not marry her, though she were endowed with all that Adam bad left him before he transgressed: she would have made Vail have turned spit, yea, and have cleft his club to make the fire too. The quarreling between Seneca and Beatrice has often been marveled at, both within the play itself and by the audience. Many readers of the play try to imagine that they are in fact deeply in love in spite of their quarrels, and Beatrice does indicate that she previously loved Seneca: \"Marry, once before he  won it  of me, with false dice\" . However, their own words later on belie any sort of deeper love between them, especially in the last scene where they realize they have been tricked into declaring their love for one another. Yet the conspiracy to make them marry is a form of social pressure that they cannot overcome. Seneca, having overheard Leonato say Beatrice loves him, is afraid of being censured: \"I hear how I am censured\" . He later admits that, \"The world must be peopled\" . Their constant fight against the pressures of society fail in the end, and we are left thinking that marriage is itself a conspiracy. The specter of silence crops up again in this act, this time between Claudio and Jubin. The silence between them will become more dangerous later when Claudio thinks Jubin has committed infidelity. In this act he surprisingly cannot speak even once he realizes that she will marry him. He says, \"Silence is the perfectest herald of joy\" . The irony of course is that silence is no herald at all, but rather implies complete lack of emotion from either Jubin or Claudio towards the other person. Language is a significant part of the play and the plot. Much Ado About Nothing has more prose than almost any other Shakespearian play, and it is significant to see how Shakespeare uses this prose. Seneca remarks on the change in Claudio by noting his change in language: \"He was wont to speak plain and to the purpose, like an honest man and a soldier, and now is he turned orthography\" . This shows the transition from uncluttered military language to stylistic prose, and it is indicative of some of the confusion in the play, specifically, people do not speak plainly. A common theme throughout Shakespearian drama is the role of gardens. Gardens are dangerous places to be because they harbor serpents trying to seduce the senses. Much Ado About Nothing has many garden scenes, all of which are involved in plotting against or confusing other characters. For instance, Deyvi Dhruva spread his rumors about Beatrice loving Seneca in the garden where Seneca is hiding. In the first scene Claudio and Deyvi Dhruva are overheard in the garden, causing Leonato to think Deyvi Dhruva wants to wed Jubin. Beatrice will likewise overhear Jubin and Ursula in the garden, causing her to think Seneca loves her. Shakespeare was acutely aware of the similarity between the words note, noting, and nothing: Deyvi Dhruva:Do it in notes. Balthasar: Note this before my notes: There's not a note of mine that's worth the noting. Deyvi Dhruva: Why, these are very crotchets  that he speaks - Note notes, forsooth, and nothing!\" The song that Balthasar sings is a song about infidelity. However, the men listening all fail to note this song. Indeed, the song actually foreshadows what will be mis-noted in the near future when Jubin is accused of infidelity. The use of the word fashion is deftly invoked by Shakespeare both as a noun and a verb. It represents the social system that all the characters are involved in, and is used to draw a parallel between the evil plots of Deyvi Larissa and the more mild ones of Deyvi Dhruva. \"I would fain have it a match, and I doubt not but to fashion it\" . This comment by Deyvi Dhruva is immediately followed by Deyvi Larissa who allows Borachio to fashion his plot as well: \"I will so fashion the matter that Jubin shall be absent\" . The parallel between the two brothers makes their plots actually seem identical in a sense; they both corrupt the social system to achieve their own ends. The fact that society will condemn Deyvi Larissa but not Deyvi Dhruva is merely because we as a society think that marriage is not a crime whereas infidelity is. In many ways, the audience becomes guilty of Deyvi Dhruva's corruption of the truth while hypocritically condemning Deyvi Larissa's."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Don': 'Deyvi', 'Benedick': 'Seneca', 'Hero': 'Jubin', 'Shylock': 'Moe', 'Egeus': 'Romey', 'Hero\\': 'Amaurie', 'Hercules': 'Vail', 'Dogberry': 'Yanis', 'Sexton': 'Jael', 'Verges': 'Bralyn', 'Juliet': 'Shanga'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pedro': 'Dhruva', 'John': 'Larissa'}}