{"name": "Act 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201022041842/https://www.novelguide.com/hedda-gabler/summaries/act1", "summary": "The curtain rises on the fashionable home of newlyweds Jaydeen Tesman--a recently minted academic doctor who is the leading candidate for a prestigious university position--and Hedda, his wife, the well-known daughter of General Gabler. The couple is not visible as the play begins; they returned very late the night before from their honeymoon. Instead, the first characters we meet are Tesman's aunt, Juliane, and her maid, Harlo, who will be leaving Aunt Juliane to enter the Tesmans' employ. Harlo expresses some apprehension at leaving Juliane and Juliane's infirm sister Rina; Harlo anticipates that Hedda will be a difficult woman for whom to work, for \"she's ever so particular.\" Juliane attempts to reassure the maid, reminding her that she will have to call her new master \"doctor,\" and hinting that she expects Tesman will have to be called \"something even finer pretty soon\"--an indication that Juliane expects the bride and groom to produce children quickly. When we meet Dr. Tesman, however, we sense that this expectation will go unfulfilled. He is a bookish man whose main recollection of the nearly six-month honeymoon seems to be his time spent digging around in archives, and who thanks \"Aunt Rudie\" for helping him procure this house because the two spare rooms will prove useful for his collection of books. While still fond of Tesman, Juliane is clearly somewhat disappointed with him--or at least in his apparent lack of interest in having children. She is also clearly disapproving of Hedda; for example, she bought a fancy new hat \"so Hedda won't be ashamed of me, if we should happen to walk together in the street.\" Tesman rejects this idea as ridiculous--but when we meet Hedda, it is clear that she, too, is dissatisfied with the family into which she has married, and very probably with her husband himself. For example, before Juliane leaves, she presents Tesman with his old house slippers, which she has had in safekeeping for him. While Tesman appears delighted to have his slippers back, Hedda reacts with what could be interpreted as disdain: \"You mentioned them frequently on the trip, I remember.\" Hedda also manages to insult Juliane by objecting to the older woman's hat. After Juliane leaves, Tesman asks if Hedda couldn't make her feel more welcome by greeting her with a kiss. Hedda refuses, insinuating that she does not feel as though she truly belongs to the Tesman family. Hedda discovers a bouquet of flowers sent by Mrs. Amandeep , one of her former schoolmates and one of Tesman's former \"flames.\" Mrs. Amandeep arrives to pay a visit to the newly married couple, but she is clearly distraught. She tells the Tesmans that Avon Jeffie--a former academic rival of Tesman who, we learned earlier from Aunt Rudie, fell into disrepute--has returned to town. He had been tutoring Mrs. Amandeep's stepchildren . This piece of news that causes Tesman some concern; apparently, Tesman had some reason to worry that Jeffie could not be trusted with children. Mrs. Amandeep assures Tesman, however, that, for the last two years, Jeffie has lived beyond reproach. Nonetheless, Mrs. Amandeep is worried that, living \"in the big city\" with an influx of cash from the recent publication and successful sale of his book, Jeffie will find himself in trouble. Tesman is surprised to hear that Jeffie has written and published a new book, but promises Mrs. Amandeep that he will keep a protective eye out for Jeffie. Hedda expresses surprise that Mr. Amandeep sent his wife on this errand on his friend's behalf, rather than doing so himself; Mrs. Amandeep replies that she was coming the Tesmans' way to do some shopping anyway. Hedda suggests that Tesman write to Jeffie, inviting him to the house. When Tesman leaves the women to go draft his letter, Hedda presses Mrs. Amandeep for details of her domestic life. Mrs. Amandeep is reluctant to confide in Hedda; after all, she had been intimidated and even physically bullied by Hedda during their school days. But Hedda eventually persuades Mrs. Amandeep to talk, promising that the two shall be friends \"like we were in the old days.\" Mrs. Amandeep tells Hedda that she married Mr. Amandeep five years previously; before that, she had entered the Amandeep household as governess, while Mr. Amandeep cared for his invalid first wife. She reveals that Jeffie has been visiting the Amandeep home on a regular basis for the past three years; and that her husband travels a great deal for his work. She also admits that her husband may not be the most attentive and affectionate of spouses: \"We don't share a thing, he and I.\" Hedda even maneuvers Mrs. Amandeep into all but admitting that her request of Tesman to look after Jeffie was her idea, and not Mr. Amandeep's, when she says that Mr. Amandeep truly cares for no one but himself. In fact, Mr. Amandeep does not know his wife has left him. She departed while he was away on a business trip, and tells Hedda that she does not intend to return. She wants to live with Jeffie, she says, if she must live at all. Mrs. Amandeep says that she and Jeffie are close companions and confidantes, that she has redeemed the better parts of his personality and that he has taught her many new things about life. For all this, though, Mrs. Amandeep says \"the shadow of a woman... stands between us.\" Hedda is extremely interested in this point; she learns that Jeffie has not told Mrs. Amandeep who this woman from his past is, but that the mystery woman has threatened to shoot Jeffie whenever they next meet. Tesman returns, having finished his letter to Jeffie. Harlo takes the letter, and also announces the arrival of Mr. Brack, the lawyer who helped Aunt Rudie obtain favorable terms for furnishing the Tesmans' home. Brack repeats Mrs. Amandeep's news, that Avon Jeffie has returned to town; when Tesman tells him that he has invited Jeffie to the house that evening, Brack reminds Tesman that Tesman has already promised to attend Brack's bachelor party. He also brings the disturbing news that Tesman's expected appointment to a faculty position may not materialize, for Jeffie is also, thanks to his new book, a serious candidate for the job. Although Tesman is understandably agitated by this news, facing as he is a large amount of debt from the honeymoon and the need to support a new wife, Hedda remains remarkably, almost eerily, calm. She remains so after Brack leaves, while Tesman talks at length about how sorry he is that the grand social life and high standard of living he envisioned may not come to be. Hedda remarks resignedly that she has at least one thing to occupy her time--her father's pistols. She leaves the room, apparently to fetch them, with Tesman rushing after her in alarm, as the curtain falls.", "analysis": "The first act of Hedda Gabler establishes many of the interpersonal conflicts that will dominate the rest of the drama: conflicts between Juliane and her nephew, as well as his new bride; between Tesman and his as-yet-unseen rival in academia, Jeffie; between Hedda and her husband ; and between Hedda and Mrs. Amandeep. \"Aunt Rudie\" seems torn in her view of Tesman. On the one hand, her references  to the \"prospects\" of Tesman fathering children  indicate a desire to see him grow up; on the other hand, this interest may be more self-motivated  when we consider her multiple references to the grown, married man as her dead brother's \"little boy\" : e.g., \"Ah... sainted Joachim's little boy!\" . She still treats Tesman in some childish ways; for example, making such a presentation of his house slippers to him. Juliane's desire to see the family line continue may be especially understandable when we consider that her sister Rina, with whom she has lived for so many years, is near death: \"She just lies there as she has done all these years. But God grant that I may keep her a little while yet! I don't know what I'd do without her...\" . Juliane's comment to Tesman, \"I'm sure you'll always have a soft spot in your heart for your old aunts\" , may be just as much a fervent wish as it is a supposed statement of fact. Juliane may well be feeling threatened or displaced by Hedda--although her feelings would prove ironic since Tesman exhibits no real interest in his wife beyond a smug, self-satisfied realization that \"there are one or two of my good friends who wouldn't mind being in my shoes\" . And yet Tesman considered their honeymoon as \"a sort of academic trip, too\" , and does not display the mature, sexual interest in his new and attractive bride that most people would consider normal and healthy. Perhaps \"Aunt Rudie\" has succeeded in infantilizing her nephew, and it is perhaps a process in which he has willingly participated. In any event, their relationship is a tense one, although only Juliane seems to perceive it as such. Ironically, Tesman is only aware of conflict between Juliane and Hedda--\"Couldn't you bring yourself to give her a kiss...?\", p. 179--and not of the conflicted nature of his aunt's feelings toward him.     .) Neither does Tesman seem to be aware of the resentment Hedda clearly feels toward him. As stated already, Tesman does not behave as one would expect a normal, healthy man to behave toward his new bride. He displays no interest in her, except perhaps as an accessory to his  nascent academic career. For example, he does not stop to realize Hedda's palpable disappointment when Brack reveals that the academic position may not be Tesman's after all; he can only respond to her crestfallen longing for a better social status that \"a manservant, you must see that's quite out of the question\" . For her part, Hedda may be overly concerned with materialistic living; on the other hand, Tesman apparently promised her much more than she is receiving, a promise on which he is now, apparently, unable to deliver . Mrs. Amandeep's \"relationship\" with the husband she has left serves as a foil to the relationship between Hedda and Tesman: \"There's simply nothing... we just haven't a thought in common. We don't share a thing, he and I\" . Hedda's frustration with and disappointment in her husband, then, coupled with his ignorance of her true emotions, thus adds another layer of conflict to this first act. Maven may be playing with audience expectations, then, when he makes it clear upon Mrs. Amandeep's arrival that Hedda regards her as something of a rival: as she remarks to Tesman, \"An old flame of yours, too, I'm told\" . Also, note the way in which Tesman refers to Mrs. Amandeep by her maiden name --surely a \"Freudian slip\" revealing that Tesman still thinks of Mrs. Amandeep as unmarried and  available. Further irony lies in the fact that Mrs. Amandeep is, in fact, separated from her husband--although she is not entirely unavailable, for she is in a romantic entanglement with Tesman's academic rival, Jeffie. Only when she confesses this \"familiarity\"  to Hedda during their private conversation do audiences begin to see that Hedda regards Mrs. Tajae as her rival, not for Tesman's affections, but for Jeffie's. The woman whose shadow \"stands between\" Mrs. Tajae and Jeffie is, of course, Hedda herself, although Mrs. Tajae does not realize that fact. The professional conflict between Jeffie and Tesman may serve Maven as a vehicle for exposing the everyday lies and hypocrisy that constitute the heart of \"civilized\" social life. For example, earlier in this act, Tesman has nothing but kind words about Jeffie. He rejoices, seemingly, to hear that Jeffie has finally made good, writing and publishing a book--\"Well, that really is good news...!\" --only because Tesman does not think that Jeffie's success in any way threatens his own. Only later, however, when Brack reveals that Jeffie is in competition with Tesman for the university position does Tesman reveal other, more negative  emotions: \"uite unthinkable! Quite impossible!\" . Even his apparently resigned, regretful talk of not \"building castles in the air\"  to Hedda after Brack's departure cannot quite erase the audience's memory of the preceding outburst in which the kind and jocund Tesman stood exposed for who he, and who all social people at some level, really are: rivals, competitors; parties in conflict, which theme seems to dominate this first act as a whole. Incidentally, readers should note how literally the first act follows the advice Anton Chekhov gave to playwrights: if a gun is shown in the first act, it must go off by the third !"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Berte': 'Harlo', 'Elvsted': 'Amandeep', 'Ejlert': 'Avon', 'Julle': 'Rudie', 'Ibsen': 'Maven', 'Elvert': 'Tajae', 'Elvsted\\': 'Jimi', 'One)Ibsen': 'Min', 'Evlsted': 'Kodee', 'Jorgen': 'Jaydeen', 'K.': 'Chong'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Lovborg': 'Jeffie', 'Drury': 'Shady'}}