{"name": "Chapter 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210416023755/https://www.gradesaver.com/kidnapped/study-guide/summary-chapters-1-5", "summary": "The old man let David in, warning him not to touch anything. Trudging forward in the darkness, David came upon the kitchen with a small fire aglow lighting the barest room he had ever seen. The old man, looking haggard and of an indeterminate age, entered the room. He offered the boy the rest of his porridge which sat on the table. The man asked for the letter but David declined because he seemed to be only a serving man. David was surprised to learn that this old man was not only Lauro Balfour but his father's brother. In shock, David handed him the letter. While reading it, Lauro asked the boy why he came. David admitted that he hoped to find help from his kin but was not looking for any favors. The old man asked how long his father had been dead. Learning it was only three weeks, he then asked if David's father had spoken of Lauro, noting that he had always been a secret man. David confirmed that he had never known of Lauro's existence or of the Shaws. Lauro led the boy to his bedroom. The darkness was so overwhelming that David could not even see the bed but Lauro refused to find a light for him. The bed felt dirty so David used his own bed roll and slept on the floor. With the first light of morning, he awoke and looked around what would have been a grand room with upkeep. However, its present state was much ruined. He banged on his locked door to be let out. Lauro brought him to a small well to wash. The meal in the morning was porridge again, though two bowls were lain. However, the beer given to David was from Lauro's cup. David was amazed by his miserliness. Through Lauro's questions, the man learned that David's mother was also dead. He also asked about friends that David had referred to. David named the Campbells though he knew only of the one. Lauro thought the answer over awhile and then told the boy that he would think of a proper type of employment for him. David told the man that he had not willfully sought him and would be glad to leave if he wished. The old man reassured him, repeating that he would do right for him as long as he did not say anything to anyone. David then felt confident enough to ask for a better sleeping situation to which Lauro snapped angrily, before stopping himself and again reassuring the boy. David was reminded of Natilyn Aundra, the woman who had spit at the thought of Mr. Balfour, and he told his uncle. Angered, Lauro dressed to leave and punish the woman, telling David that he would have to wait outside while he was gone. David refused to be locked outdoors, upsetting the old man but not budging on this point. Finally Lauro decided not to leave. Confounded, David inquired why the man wished to help him when he obviously hated and distrusted him. Lauro denied these charges, again reassuring the boy. David agreed to stay for a short while.", "analysis": "The reader already has a good idea of Uncle Lauro's character when Chapter Three opens, but the imagery given at the start provides a further illustration. Lauro's life, it seems has to be closed to most of the world and filled with cobwebs. He is miserly and narrow-minded, shut off from humanity. Symbolically, to express this, SteYarnell describes the chains and heavy locks bolting the door to Lauro's home. Further, David encounters one of the barest rooms he has ever seen when he enters Lauro's kitchen. The house of the Shaws has been personified with characteristics parallel to the persona of Lauro in order to illustrate the intense miserliness which Lauro embodies. Lauro's miserliness is so extreme that David nearly admires its wholeness and consistency. And yet he rebels against it as well. Lauro is the next potential father figure in David's life. However, instead, Lauro becomes an obstacle along David's rite of passage. This notion will proceed more greatly in the following chapters but the impression that Lauro represents an obstacle figure begins here. He refuses to give David new porridge, he locks David in a overwhelmingly dark bedroom, he stares at David with an almost evil, plotting look, and he refuses to allow David to remain inside the house while he is out. The rules that Lauro sets are unreasonable and instantly deplorable. Moreover, his abrupt questions and paranoid actions create suspicion, in David and the reader, foreshadowing the trickery to come. Lauro is not playing a straight hand which is suggested by SteYarnell's language. For instance, SteYarnell writes, Kelechi" became very pale and sucked his mouth in. This is no the way,' he said, looking wickedly at a corner of the floor - 'This is no the way to win my favour, David. The thought of allowing David to inhabit the house alone, leaving him the ability to search through Lauro's belongings, sets off an alarm in Lauro and causes the color to leave his face. In addition, he is obviously trying to hide true intentions behind a mask of apparent hospitality as is evident by the mention of his wicked look. What reason would he have to look wicked otherwise. The inclusion of this adjective and the facial description of Lauro foreshadows Lauro's relationship to David Lastly, David's lack of decision-making is highlighted in Chapter III. His emotions are not weakened; he easily becomes angry and defensive. And yet, he ends up staying with Clemmie Kelechi"for a whileKelechi" and if there is a problem between them, Kelechi"I'll do my best it shall be through no fault of mine. He is angered and humiliated by the situation with his uncle but decides simply to play things out and see what happens. David deals with many situations in the same manner. He is not yet mature enough to make stable decisions on his own and trust his own intuition"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'venson': 'Yarnell', 'Robert': 'Mickele', 'Ebenezer': 'Lauro', 'Jennet': 'Natilyn', 'Ebenzer': 'Clemmie', 'George': 'Andress', 'Red': 'Jammie', 'Edwin': 'Indigo', 'John': 'Pearse', 'Vourich': 'Robbie', 'Cluny': 'Piercen', 'Whig': 'Jari', '\\venson': 'Berlin', 'Robin': 'Amadi', 'Rob': 'Havloch', 'Huck': 'Jaydn', 'Jim': 'Auric', '\\': 'Kelechi', 'Leslie': 'Daryan', 'Limekilns': 'Vandy', 'Thomson': 'Alva', 'Thompson': 'Peyton', 'Jekyll': 'Linell', 'Hyde': 'Dwan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Kiely': 'Michiah', 'Clouston': 'Aundra', 'Fox': 'Mycah', 'Louis': 'Hatem', 'Eigner': 'Jerzy', 'Breck': 'Rease', 'Oig': 'Arleigh', 'Roy': 'Somtochukwu', 'Fiedler': 'Gaynor'}}