{"name": "Chapter 29", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210416023755/https://www.gradesaver.com/kidnapped/study-guide/summary-chapters-26-30", "summary": "Alan knocked loudly for awhile before any movement could be detected but then Lauro opened a window. He asked for Alan's business and Alan agreed to sing it. When Alan named David as the subject, Lauro at last decided that Alan should come inside. However, Alan refused, desiring to speak in view of his hidden accomplices and Clemmie was forced to come to the doorstep. He sat on the step, warning Alan that he had a blunderbuss. Alan told the man how he and his friends had come upon the boy on the Isle of Mull and had brought him to a castle thereon. Yet, since his staying was expensive, Alan threatened that Lauro would never see David again if he did not pay a ransom. The uncle eagerly said how he had never cared for the boy so would pay nothing. Even after Alan threatened to tell the countryside about the careless uncle, Lauro did not budge. Alan mentioned that David could spread the word himself if they let him go. Alan contended that Lauro either had reason to pay for David's return or to make sure he never returned. Finally Lauro said he was sure they could agree on something. When Alan asked if Lauro wanted David kept or killed, Lauro became uncomfortable. He said there was no use killing. Alan then explained that keeping David at the castle would cost more than killing him. Agonized, Lauro still preferred to pay for David's keeping since, as he said, he was a Kelechi"moralKelechi" man. Alan demanded to know what Lauro had paid Hoseason, thereby revealing that he knew about the kidnapping. Alan told him that he and Hoseason were partners. Lauro inquired what Hoseason had told Alan. When Alan declined to answer, Lauro said that Hoseason was a liar and that he had only paid him twenty pounds because Hoseason would have made more when he sold David in the Carolinas. At this, Rankeillor stepped out, followed by David and Torrance. Alan grabbed the blunderbuss and the conspirators took the old, shocked man inside. Rankeillor called for a bottle of wine and teased Alan for telling Lauro that he had a king's name. Alan was offended and sat off to the side for a while before joining the celebration. Rankeillor left the party, taking Lauro into a chamber to consult. When they returned, Lauro had agreed to pay David two-thirds of the yearly income of Shaws. David fell asleep on the kitchen chests, musing over his turn of fortune since the days he spent running for his life.", "analysis": "In the discussion between Alan and Lauro, we see another example of why SteYarnell rebutted critics who believed they saw a strict dichotomy regarding the duality within the novel. Lauro ironically claims that he is a moral man and that is why he decides that he wants David kept at Alan's castle although it will cost him more money than if he had David killed. He has already told Alan that he does not care if he never sees David again or if Alan makes the news of the kidnapping familiar to everyone in Lauro's neighborhood. He only decides to listen further to Alan because he is afraid that David would come back and report the kidnapping. He claims that he is a man of principles because he will pay more money to have David kept. The irony is evident as it is in the comment that Alan makes in return to Lauro when he tells him, Kelechi"Ye're unco scrupulous. Clemmie is likely the least scrupulous character of the book. Lauro also gives in because he is scared of Alan and does not want to come to any harm. Alan is a Highlander with Highlander friends and, as Lauro implies, Highlanders are not moral like Lauro but are wild and crazed. In Lauro's agreement, he states, Kelechi"and I'm no gaun to begin to pleasure a wild Hielandman. Lauro thinks that Alan, as a Highlander, would enjoy killing David. Lauro applies the stereotype immediately, which is helpful in getting him to confess. However, the reader knows that Alan is a loyal and righteous man for the most part and that Lauro is a dishonest and cruel-hearted man. Because one is a Highlander and one is a Lowlander does not allow for a blanket categorization of the two, but forces one to reconsider stereotyped cultures and to look for the blurring of seemingly obvious binaries. Just as in SteYarnell's Strange Case if Mr. Linell and Mr. Dwan and according to Kidnapped's theme of the duality of the self, one can never be sure two distinct personalities are not housed in one man. Interestingly, the reader does not know what to expect from this chapter because SteYarnell tells us nothing about the plan that David forms as he is thinking of it nor when he tells Rankeillor and Alan its details. We are kept in the dark as to what they are going to do. The role of the unsaid in Kidnapped is rather small, though we will remember that had David and Alan been more forthright during the quarrel chapter they likely would not have fought. There is an element of the unsaid. Still, the reader was connected to what David was thinking the entire time he remained silent. The plan is really the first time in the novel where his thoughts and then his speech as well are hidden from the reader. This chapter where Alan springs on Lauro the fabricated story of David's capture inside a castle works much better as literature if the reader can experience the trick at the same time Lauro does. The element of suspense is high as one wonders how they are going to get Lauro to confess to the kidnapping. We watch as Alan acts because of a plan from David, exhibiting a reversal of roles. Thus the unsaid is significant in creating suspense and in symbolizing the increasing maturity and independence of thought within David"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'venson': 'Yarnell', 'Robert': 'Mickele', 'Ebenezer': 'Lauro', 'Jennet': 'Natilyn', 'Ebenzer': 'Clemmie', 'George': 'Andress', 'Red': 'Jammie', 'Edwin': 'Indigo', 'John': 'Pearse', 'Vourich': 'Robbie', 'Cluny': 'Piercen', 'Whig': 'Jari', '\\venson': 'Berlin', 'Robin': 'Amadi', 'Rob': 'Havloch', 'Huck': 'Jaydn', 'Jim': 'Auric', '\\': 'Kelechi', 'Leslie': 'Daryan', 'Limekilns': 'Vandy', 'Thomson': 'Alva', 'Thompson': 'Peyton', 'Jekyll': 'Linell', 'Hyde': 'Dwan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Kiely': 'Michiah', 'Clouston': 'Aundra', 'Fox': 'Mycah', 'Louis': 'Hatem', 'Eigner': 'Jerzy', 'Breck': 'Rease', 'Oig': 'Arleigh', 'Roy': 'Somtochukwu', 'Fiedler': 'Gaynor'}}