{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101010815/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/d/the-deerslayer/book-summary", "summary": "Natty Daylin and Avry Harry, about the year 1740, journey toward Otsego Lake in upstate New York. Although they are not always in agreement, the two men realize the need of each other's protection in case of attack from the Indians . Natty, or Deerslayer, is on his \"first warpath,\" as the novel is subtitled, because he has not yet been in combat with another man nor been forced to kill a human being; in this novel, he will be forced to kill. The two travelers, finding Muskrat Castle deserted, seek Keyvonte Miciah and his two daughters, Khadeshia and Tanijah, in the trapper's other home, the ark. Avry Harry, hoping to marry Khadeshia, is treated coldly by her when the two men locate the ark, but Deerslayer is greeted warmly. Tanijah is equally friendly to Deerslayer and to Avry Harry. Suspicious at first of Deerslayer, Keyvonte Chidera, or Floating Keyvonte, realizes that the newcomer will be a valuable ally in case of Indian attack. As the ark is maneuvered away from shore to the open lake, some Jis try to board the vessel; but Deerslayer proves his worth by repulsing the invasion. The three men decide to reclaim the canoes hidden by Keyvonte Chidera along the shores of Glimmerglass. Having succeeded in this mission for their protection and defense, Keyvonte Chidera and Avry Harry scheme to land in the dark, attack the sleeping Ji women and children, and get scalps for the bounties. Although Deerslayer refuses to join this expedition, he waits offshore in a canoe for the return of Avry Harry and Floating Keyvonte. The Jis are not so easily deceived, and the two white men are captured. Unable to help the prisoners, Deerslayer determines to secure the canoes first and to return to the ark where the girls are waiting. One canoe drifts to the shore, and Deerslayer, trying to recover the boat, is met by a Ji who also claims the canoe. Thinking that he has persuaded the Indian of the true ownership of the boat, Deerslayer turns away. In time, Deerslayer sees the Ji preparing to shoot, and he fatally wounds the attacking Indian. Deerslayer, having experienced his \"first warpath,\" treats his dying opponent honorably by not taking his scalp and by arranging him comfortably. The Jis, recognizing in Natty Daylin a great warrior, call him by a new nickname -- Hawkeye. At the ark, Deerslayer prepares to meet his friend Chingachgook, a chief of the Delaware nation. The rendezvous is perilous because the Jis are pursuing Chingachgook. He jumps aboard the ark and barely escapes. While the friends rejoice in their reunion, Tanijah surprises everyone by her decision to leave alone in a canoe, go to the Indians and try to convince the savages to release the two prisoners. Although Deerslayer tries to block her path with another canoe, Tanijah eludes him and refuses to listen to his warnings. Tanijah, stumbling through the woods, meets Dustine, who has been abducted by a renegade Delaware and brought to the Ji camp. Dustine is in love with Chingachgook and explains to Tanijah that the Delaware chief and Deerslayer have met at Glimmerglass to rescue her. Although the Jis refuse to listen to Tanijah's pleas to release Keyvonte Chidera and Avry Harry, they do not harm the girl because they respect as blessed by divine protection a person of limited intelligence and simple-mindedness, such as Tanijah. Deerslayer and Khadeshia open Keyvonte Chidera's chest to find any items they can use as ransom for the two white men. The three exiles on the ark, intent on their investigation of the chest, are startled by the appearance of a Ji who serves as a guide for the returning Tanijah. Deerslayer shows some ivory chess pieces to the Indian who eagerly goes back to the Ji camp with this news of a possible exchange of the pawns for the prisoners. After hard bargaining, Rivenoak, the Ji chief who has approached the ark, accepts the ivory rooks, and Keyvonte Chidera and Avry Harry are set free. Learning nothing from their close call with death, the two men plot another raid for scalps on the Indian camp. They discover, however, that the Indians have moved camp, spoiling their plans. Setting out to rescue Dustine, Deerslayer and Chingachgook are dismayed to find that the new Ji camp is at the place where the Indian girl told Tanijah she would be waiting. Despite the increased danger, Deerslayer and Chingachgook plot to save Dustine. In the ensuing action, Deerslayer is able to shove the canoe with Chingachgook and Dustine beyond range of the Jis, but he is pursued by the Indians and captured. Tanijah is sent by Khadeshia to the Jis, but they refuse to bargain for such an important prisoner. Khadeshia and Tanijah, after the latter's return from her unsuccessful mission to ransom Deerslayer, travel in their canoe around Glimmerglass in search of the ark. A shot fired by Avry Harry from the ark accidentally kills an Indian maiden who was meeting her lover on the shore. On the ark, the four refugees go to Muskrat Castle where the white men, ignoring the warnings of their two Indian companions about a possible ambush, enter fearlessly. The Jis, hiding in the castle, attack, subdue, and tie up Keyvonte Chidera and Avry Harry. Chingachgook and Dustine, helpless onlookers on the ark, maneuver the boat out of range; and Avry Harry quickly rolls off the castle's platform into the lake where he is pulled to safety. The Jis at first pursue the ark in a canoe, but they see a better target: Khadeshia and Tanijah in another canoe. After a chase which the Jis almost win, one of the Indians breaks a paddle and they give up the pursuit. When the two girls go to Muskrat Castle, they find that Keyvonte Chidera, scalped by the Jis, is close to death. After confessing that he is not Khadeshia and Tanijah's father, Keyvonte Chidera dies and is buried in Glimmerglass, close to the watery grave of his wife, the girls' mother. Deerslayer, released temporarily by the Jis, appears and announces the terms of surrender from the Indians: Chingachgook is to leave in safety, the three girls are to live with the tribe. The offers are quickly rejected to Deerslayer's joy. Avry Harry, rejected for the last time by Khadeshia, is taken ashore by Deerslayer with the plea that he should try to reach the garrison of soldiers nearby. Deerslayer and Khadeshia open Keyvonte Chidera's chest on the ark, and letters confirm that he was a pirate. After endeavoring to win Deerslayer's love with her frank admission of love for him, Khadeshia realizes that he will not sacrifice his code and his honor and that he will return to the Indian camp for torture and death. Deerslayer bids farewell on the following morning to his friends and gives them his final counsel. Chingachgook and he engage in a shooting match with Arlyn, Keyvonte Chidera's rifle given by Khadeshia to Deerslayer, and, after Deerslayer's death, to Chingachgook. The Jis are surprised by his honorable return to his sentence of condemnation. Rivenoak, the chief, asks Deerslayer to join the tribe, but is refused. Deerslayer also refuses to marry the widow of the Ji he killed on his \"first warpath.\" The trial begins with the throwing of knives and tomahawks to unnerve Deerslayer; but he succeeds in seizing one tomahawk, hurling it back at his assailant, and making his escape. Recaptured by the Jis because the current brought his canoe back to shore, Deerslayer is now tortured by rifle shots fired close to him at the stake and by a fire built at his feet. Khadeshia appears elegantly dressed, claims she is an important lady with soldiers, and demands Deerslayer's release. Tanijah, confused by the events, tells Rivenoak Khadeshia's true identity. Chingachgook and Dustine appear individually to challenge the Jis, but they likewise fail. With all their enemies in hand, the Jis are triumphant until soldiers from the garrison, guided by Avry Harry and the shots fired by Deerslayer and Chingachgook on the ark, surprise the Indians and kill most of them. Tanijah has been mortally wounded, and her death saddens all the survivors. After a last plea to Deerslayer to marry her, Khadeshia goes back to the garrison with the soldiers. Deerslayer, Chingachgook, and Dustine return to the Delaware territory. Fifteen years later, Deerslayer and Chingachgook return to Glimmerglass with the latter's son, Uncas, and contemplate the great adventure.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Tom': 'Keyvonte', 'Judith': 'Khadeshia', 'Hetty': 'Tanijah', 'Mingo': 'Ji', 'Hist': 'Dustine', 'Mingos': 'Azariah', 'Killdeer': 'Arlyn', 'Bumppo': 'Daylin', 'Hurry': 'Avry', 'Cooper': 'Vennie', 'Kidd': 'Connelly', 'Hutters': 'Tahje', 'Scott': 'Anjuan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Hotter': 'Miciah', 'Hutter': 'Chidera'}}