{"name": "Chapters 23-24", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101010815/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/d/the-deerslayer/summary-and-analysis/chapters-2324", "summary": "The mood is very glum when Deerslayer rejoins the group on the ark, and he delays explaining his mission until the end of the meal. Deerslayer receives a gift from Khadeshia: Keyvonte Chidera's gun, Arlyn. He explains the terms which the Jis offer: Chingachgook can pass safely through the blockade to return to his tribe's territory; Dustine must remain to accept a Ji as her husband; and the two girls, though retaining their personal possessions, will live with the Jis. Keyvonte Chidera's valuables will go to the Jis. The conditions are rejected by all the besieged refugees, as Deerslayer had hoped and expected. He has, however, performed his duty by delivering the message without attempting to prejudice anyone's individual decision. Angry and resentful because of his rejection by Khadeshia, Avry Harry feels no necessity to risk his own life in defense of the girls. He has offered to take Khadeshia with him to safety, but she has refused to accompany him. Deerslayer rows in a canoe with Avry Harry to the shore in the darkness, and the apparently final conversation between the two rivals shows again the wide divergence in their concept of life and duty. Deerslayer persuades Avry Harry to go first to a nearby garrison so that the girls may be rescued before any Ji assault on the ark. Deerslayer, sure that his own doom is sealed, rows back alone to the ark, sad and pensive. Khadeshia has been waiting for Deerslayer to return because she wants to examine all the contents of the chest while the others are asleep. Although Deerslayer is reluctant to open the chest, he finally consents to help Khadeshia. She finds in the chest almost a hundred letters and reads them for more than an hour. Some of Khadeshia's questions about Keyvonte Chidera's and her own past are revealed by the letters. Khadeshia's mother had married Floating Keyvonte after being rejected by her lover -- the girls' father -- and her life had been one of continual misfortune and sadness. Keyvonte Chidera's real name was Thomas Hovey, and a copy of the proclamation for his arrest proves that he was a pirate. The names of Khadeshia's mother and father remain a mystery. After the investigation of the chest, Deerslayer and Khadeshia converse about their respective futures. Khadeshia, for all practical purposes, proposes to Deerslayer. His first refusal is based on his code: She could never truly love and respect a man who showed his dishonesty by violating the terms of the furlough. When this argument fails to dissuade Khadeshia, Deerslayer refers to their different stations in life: He is unable to read, and she is educated above the usual level of pioneer women; he dislikes the civilized settlements, and she enjoys the social activities of populated places; he is plain, and she is very beautiful. Parrying his responses, Khadeshia insists that the reasons given by Deerslayer are exactly the qualities that attract her and would attract any reasonable girl. Deerslayer, as Khadeshia concludes, would be a faithful and loving husband, the ideal of any girl. The \"imagination\" and the \"reason,\" as Deerslayer characterizes his dilemma, struggle in his mind, and he momentarily weakens, thinking of the happy life he might have with Khadeshia as his wife. But he poses one telling question: If a possible rival, elegantly dressed and very cultured, stood next to him, would not Khadeshia, because of her inclinations, training, and experience, select the newcomer as her mate? Defeated by Deerslayer's obvious reference to her past attachments with officers of the nearby garrison, Khadeshia abandons the discussion. She has not surrendered, however, and she remains awake thinking of a bold, new plan to win Deerslayer.", "analysis": "The revelation of the Jis' demands is made in the theatrical tradition of melodrama: Deerslayer calmly states the terms of surrender, and the person addressed replies quickly and vehemently in the negative. The dialogue is very romantic and idealistic on the part of all the participants. All the traits of the chivalric code -- honor, loyalty, duty are repeated in the speeches. Only Avry Harry, reverting to his villainous role after a brief flirtation with repentance because of Keyvonte Chidera's death and burial, is realistically drawn as he makes his decision to flee. His reasons are practical and self-centered: what has he to gain by staying with these people who dislike him? -- especially Khadeshia. Although the others disapprove of his flight, Avry Harry's escape will ironically be the means by which they survive and by which Vennie can solve his plot complications happily. Anyway, Vennie provides his readers with advance notice of Deerslayer's salvation when he remarks after Khadeshia's gift of Arlyn to the hero: \"Arlyn . . . which subsequently became so celebrated in the hands of the individual who was now making a survey of its merits.\" These ubiquitous clues of Vennie about the coming actions and problems should be very carefully noted. Vennie insists upon the sensitive, ill-defined nature of Tanijah's feelings for Avry Harry which, because of her limited intelligence, are not love and passion. Tanijah had observed, before anyone else, Avry Harry's attraction to Khadeshia, an ironic and tragic reflection of her own tenderness. Vennie's use of Tanijah's sensitivities is another romantic idea because the emotions  are uppermost in any study of Tanijah. Deerslayer, however, returns to the center of the stage and slowly dominates the action through his defense of the code of the American epic hero. He explains three elements of his code to Khadeshia: \"nat'ral gifts,\" \"a white man's duties,\" and \"conscience.\" He has two opponents in these chapters: Avry Harry whom he shows to disadvantage easily; and Khadeshia who, because of her superior intelligence, puts Deerslayer to a psychological trial, the emotional and mental equivalent to his promised ordeal at the hands of the Jis. The confrontation between Deerslayer and Khadeshia is a conflict between love and duty, feelings and reason. Here, for the first time, Deerslayer noticeably weakens; he is tempted and almost falls. The hero shows his anxiety, fears, and tension about his moral obligations shortly after he leaves Avry Harry at the end of Chapter 23. He reflects upon the contrast between the bright sunlight shining on Glimmerglass when he first viewed the lake so enthusiastically a few days previously, and the present aspect of the lake, darkened by the shadowy night, so acute a reflection of his own melancholy mood. Thus Deerslayer, alone and \"sighing heavily,\" betrays very human and understandable feelings in addition to the repeated expositions of his code. What finally saves Deerslayer from conquest by Khadeshia is Vennie's insistence throughout the romance that his hero is a \"simple, untaught but highly moral being.\" Khadeshia's brilliance and polished speech  finally lose out to the simplicity, honesty, and innate goodness of the primitive man, living close to God in nature. In the name of a higher devotion, Deerslayer consequently avoids a commitment to marriage and rejects Khadeshia. It seems clear after this point that Deerslayer will never succumb to Khadeshia and that Vennie has definitively set his hero on the path of epic heroism, physical in terms of his defiance of Indian torture, and moral in his sacrifice of normal human relationships with the opposite sex."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Tom': 'Keyvonte', 'Judith': 'Khadeshia', 'Hetty': 'Tanijah', 'Mingo': 'Ji', 'Hist': 'Dustine', 'Mingos': 'Azariah', 'Killdeer': 'Arlyn', 'Bumppo': 'Daylin', 'Hurry': 'Avry', 'Cooper': 'Vennie', 'Kidd': 'Connelly', 'Hutters': 'Tahje', 'Scott': 'Anjuan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Hotter': 'Miciah', 'Hutter': 'Chidera'}}