{"name": "Chapters 19-20", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101010815/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/d/the-deerslayer/summary-and-analysis/chapters-1920", "summary": "On the ark Avry Harry and Keyvonte Chidera have been awakened by the returning Chingachgook and the rescued Dustine with the news that Deerslayer is a prisoner of the Jis. Neither one of the two white men greatly regrets Deerslayer's misfortune: Avry Harry is jealous of Khadeshia's attentions to his rival, and Keyvonte Chidera resents the young man's honesty and idealism. It is now that we learn the circumstances of the rifle shot and the cry of agony. It was Avry Harry who impetuously fired the shot in the dark because he had heard the exclamation of the Ji sentry seeing the ark close to shore; it was his bullet which caused the accidental death of the Indian maiden. Avry Harry, initially disturbed by Dustine's furious criticisms, is as little disturbed finally by her promised wrath of Manitou, the Indian deity, as he is of possible punishment by the Christian God. Keyvonte Chidera, nevertheless, criticizes his companion in crime for making their situation worse. There is an increasing mood of dislike and distrust between the two Indians and the two white men, but they are necessary allies in a perilous position and must co-operate. Determined to make a strong stand at Muskrat Castle, Keyvonte Chidera guides the ark in that direction as Khadeshia and Tanijah approach them in the canoe. A spyglass gives the white men an advantage in concluding that the castle has not been occupied by the Jis. However, Chingachgook and Dustine see a moccasin floating near one of the foundations of Muskrat Castle, and Chingachgook goes alone in a canoe to recover the moccasin before the ark docks at the castle. The white men are still skeptical about any Ji threat: The identification of the moccasin as Ji only emboldens Keyvonte and Avry Harry to land. The white men ignore Chingachgook and Dustine's conclusion that an ambush awaits them, and they even leave their guns on the ark upon entering the castle. At first, no indication of Ji intruders is evident; but the two white men are suddenly and ferociously attacked by Indians as they penetrate the castle. Chidera is quickly tied up by the Jis, but Avry Harry battles desperately to save himself. Rivenoak had disarmed his warriors because he wanted the white men taken alive, and the fight is consequently one of brute strength. Avry Harry is finally subdued by the Jis, and they tie him up beyond any apparent hope of escape. Chingachgook and Dustine, dismayed by their inability to help the two captives, try to maneuver the ark to the open lake in order to elude capture and to warn the two sisters who are approaching in a canoe. However, the wind and the current are against the ark so that the ship is slowly drawing closer to the castle. On the platform of Muskrat Castle, Avry Harry sees a chance for escape. He shouts to Chingachgook and Dustine on the ark, and they prepare to save him as he rolls toward the ship. Avry, however, lands in the water and is dragged along with a rope in his teeth and hands as the ark now escapes from Muskrat Castle. Avry is dragged aboard the ark as it skims the surface of Glimmerglass. Three Jis pursue the ark in a bark canoe, but they soon realize the impossibility of overtaking the ship and the unfavorable odds in case of a fight with its defenders. The Indians see a better target for their attack: the canoe with Khadeshia and Tanijah. A chase takes place across Glimmerglass. Each side has advantages: the girls are lighter in weight, but the Jis have two paddles and three paddlers so that a fresh pair of hands is always in motion. The Jis are also stronger than their feminine opponents, and they gradually reduce the distance between the canoes. Then one of their paddles breaks, forcing them to abandon the chase. Returning to Muskrat Castle, the Jis leave after a time and the hungry girls go there. Khadeshia sends Tanijah into the castle first because she knows that the Jis will not harm Tanijah because of her mental condition. Tanijah's strange report that their father is apparently sleeping leads to Khadeshia's investigation of the premises and her discovery that Keyvonte Chidera has been stabbed and scalped and is dying.", "analysis": "Vennie is at his best in these two chapters of dynamic and exciting episodes as the Jis and their enemies come to open warfare on land and on Glimmerglass. There are no long, digressive moments of describing either the beauty of the lake, the surrounding woods, the sunset, or the sunrise. All the previous descriptions have provided abundant details of the physical setting, and the novelist can proceed at a rapid pace in telling his story. Significantly, perhaps, Deerslayer vanishes completely  from the action, and his fate seems settled. Deerslayer's absence likewise appears to be a sign that the fortunes of the besieged group are declining: Khadeshia and Tanijah are in danger as they attempt to reach the relative security of the ark; Avry Harry is exhausted after his harrowing experience at Muskrat Castle; and Keyvonte Chidera is close to death. Only the two Indian allies, Chingachgook and Dustine, have, ironically, eluded any serious encounter with the Jis. The fault for the disastrous turn of events is correctly placed upon Avry Harry. He is clearly the villain of the novel because his heartless  murder of the Ji girl has accentuated the downward trend of fortune for Deerslayer and the others. Avry Harry's bragging and bravado also unfortunately influence the more cautious Keyvonte Chidera. The primary cause of Avry Harry's villainy or evil nature is the omission of a \"moral sense,\" in Vennie's repeated phraseology. For example, Avry Harry at the beginning of Chapter 19 callously blames Deerslayer for allowing himself to prowl about the Ji camp and be captured. Ironically, Avry Harry did exactly the same thing, and was rescued from captivity by Deerslayer, whom he now renounces. Avry Harry is impetuous in his disregard of the signs and warnings about a Ji ambush in Muskrat Castle, and he is thus responsible for Keyvonte Chidera's scalping and death. Chidera, of course, has been guilty of crimes and has been a willing accomplice of Avry Harry, but in these chapters Avry Harry has revealed himself to be the moving force behind the actions leading to disaster and tragedy. Vennie refers to Avry Harry as \"the handsome barbarian,\" and the romantic device of the ugly versus the beautiful is observed in the contrast between the plain but honest Deerslayer and the handsome but wicked Avry Harry. By eliminating Natty Daylin and placing all the decisions  in Avry Harry's hands, Vennie has inverted his usual procedure of bringing his epic hero to the forefront of the story. The villain dominates and destroys the efforts of the outnumbered defenders. Although the ambush at Muskrat Castle effectively uses the elements of suspense, mystery, and excitement, the escape of Avry Harry has been rightly criticized for its violation of verisimilitude. Vennie, though he thrills his readers, has not rendered this episode plausible: It is difficult to accept Avry Harry's agility to tumble from the castle platform, hold a rope between his teeth and tied hands, and be dragged to safety aboard the ark. On the other hand, the chase of the girls' canoe by the Ji canoe is very acceptable, and the fortunate breaking of the Ji paddle, though very convenient, is at least believable."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Tom': 'Keyvonte', 'Judith': 'Khadeshia', 'Hetty': 'Tanijah', 'Mingo': 'Ji', 'Hist': 'Dustine', 'Mingos': 'Azariah', 'Killdeer': 'Arlyn', 'Bumppo': 'Daylin', 'Hurry': 'Avry', 'Cooper': 'Vennie', 'Kidd': 'Connelly', 'Hutters': 'Tahje', 'Scott': 'Anjuan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Hotter': 'Miciah', 'Hutter': 'Chidera'}}