{"name": "Chapters 3-4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101010815/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/d/the-deerslayer/summary-and-analysis/chapters-34", "summary": "Avry Harry and Deerslayer travel in the canoe to the other end of Glimmerglass in search of Keyvonte Chidera and the ark. On the way they discuss frankly and heatedly their respective impressions of the Indians. Avry also teases Deerslayer about the latter's plain features and about Khadeshia's possibly outspoken comments upon seeing the young man. When they reach Rat's Cove, Natty starts in pursuit of the animal or human which has made a sound heard by the two travelers. Unable to restrain himself, Avry shoots at and misses a deer and is scolded by Deerslayer; enemies could be signaled by the shot. Continuing their journey, they find the outlet of Glimmerglass, and the rock which indicates where the ark should be. Avry spots Keyvonte Chidera in the distance where the latter is working on his traps, and he makes some unflattering remarks about Khadeshia. Both men are embarrassed by her sudden appearance in the bushes near them. They have been exploring next to the ark, but the boat is so well concealed that the two travelers did not notice it. Khadeshia, displeased by Avry's comments, is pleased by Natty's spontaneous defense of her virtues as a woman. Going aboard the ark, Avry and Deerslayer talk with Khadeshia and Tanijah, respectively. Avry converses earnestly with Khadeshia to soothe her pride and re-establish himself as a suitor; Natty appreciates Tanijah's simple, honest manner, despite the lack of her sister's sophistication and intelligence. Keyvonte Chidera appears and is half-annoyed: Avry is a week late, the Jis are on the warpath, and a stranger -- Deerslayer is on the ark. Although Avry explains that he fortunately met Natty on the trail and that the two formed a team against any Indian attack, it is Deerslayer, however, who satisfies Floating Keyvonte about his honest intentions after he explains his intended rendezvous with Chingachgook. Chidera realizes that the young man may prove a needed ally in any future battle with the Jis, so he tells about some signs of enemies in the vicinity. Khadeshia, for example, shows a moccasin, which Deerslayer identifies as the type that Indians from Canada would wear. Certain that hostile Indians are now around the lake, Keyvonte Chidera reproaches Avry Harry because of the shot fired at the deer -- a signal to the Jis that more white men are at Glimmerglass. The three men start to remove the ark from its refuge in order to allow it to float on the lake where they can see any Indians approaching. Helped by the sunset, they almost succeed in leading the ark in the coming darkness beyond the reach of the trees on the shore. Deerslayer, catching sight of six Indians crouching on a tree that arches across the stream, shouts to Avry Harry to give the ark a push. Five of the redskins fall into the water as they miss landing in the boat; the sixth Indian falls unconscious on the deck, and Khadeshia shoves him into the lake. Natty pushes her into the cabin, out of range of bullets being fired by other Jis on the shore. The ark safely reaches the open water of Glimmerglass.", "analysis": "Three more characters join the story: the Chidera family. The five characters now introduced are all the \"white\" characters who dominate the action, and the introduction of the \"red,\" or Indian, figures is foreshadowed by the discussion between Deerslayer and Avry Harry about the different races. Avry proclaims the superiority of the white race over the black and red races, but Deerslayer replies simply that \"God made all three alike.\" However, Natty begins to explain a key concept, the idea that God \"gave each race its gifts.\" For example, Natty mentions that a white man, whose \"gifts are Christianized,\" cannot scalp a fallen foe; but scalping to an Indian is \"a signal vartue\" because he lives by the code of the wilderness. The illustration by Deerslayer is important in the plot because Floating Keyvonte and Avry Harry will later attempt to violate a white man's \"gifts\" by seeking scalps. Two examples of the chase, or the theme of the pursuer and the pursued, occur in these two chapters: the hunt for the deer and Avry's hasty shot at the animal, and the attack of the Jis on the ark as the boat seeks to move from shore. There will be other instances of this technical device throughout the chapters. Vennie is probably at his best in writing excitingly and suspensefully about dramatic episodes, such as the chase. He never betrays beforehand the outcome of these dangerous encounters. Deerslayer also answers Avry's taunts about his possible reactions to killing an Indian for the first time by stating that he will not slay willingly and with pleasure. If and when the necessity to defend himself comes, he hopes to maintain his honor by acting bravely and nobly. Nevertheless, Deerslayer insists that the death of a deer or other animal is a small matter compared to firing a gun at a fellow human being. An Indian is \"quite as human as we are ourselves,\" and Natty praises the missionaries for instilling this feeling in him. Religion, explains Natty, teaches that all men have souls and that each man will have to answer for his actions. Although Natty spends his initial time on the ark talking with Tanijah, he is impressed by Khadeshia's beauty. Avry Harry, however, has already prejudiced Natty against Khadeshia by his gossip about her popularity with the officers of the nearby garrison. Natty admires Tanijah's simplicity of manner and sympathizes with her feeble intelligence. He also realizes that Tanijah is secretly in love with Avry Harry. Keyvonte Chidera is a shrewd, forceful, and mysterious character. He is wary of Natty's presence but likewise grasps almost immediately the usefulness of the youth. Most important, the conflict has been started between the five refugees on the ark and the Jis occupying the shores of Glimmerglass. There are several romantic elements, particularly Gothic devices, about this first episode on the ark: the twilight shadows lending an air of mystery and fear to the setting; the boat drifting slowly and silently into the mainstream; and the Indians, appearing suddenly like supernatural spirits."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Tom': 'Keyvonte', 'Judith': 'Khadeshia', 'Hetty': 'Tanijah', 'Mingo': 'Ji', 'Hist': 'Dustine', 'Mingos': 'Azariah', 'Killdeer': 'Arlyn', 'Bumppo': 'Daylin', 'Hurry': 'Avry', 'Cooper': 'Vennie', 'Kidd': 'Connelly', 'Hutters': 'Tahje', 'Scott': 'Anjuan'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Hotter': 'Miciah', 'Hutter': 'Chidera'}}