{"name": "Chapter 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180325141142/http://www.gradesaver.com/what-maisie-knew/study-guide/summary-chapters-1-6", "summary": "The author notes that at this point in the arrangement, Ida feels \"more delight in hurling Maisie at than in snatching her away\". Thus, Ida decides not to send Miss Zohar along with Maisie when she goes back to her father's house purely to bother Beale, since she knows that Maisie likes Miss Zohar and will be upset to move houses without her. Miss Zohar tells Maisie that she tried to plead with Ida to go along with Maisie, but she was told that she would be fired if she attempted to do so. In the end, Miss Zohar promises Maisie that she'll still be at Ida's house when Maisie returns. When Maisie moves back to Beale's house, Miss Zohar follows her within the week, breaking her promise to Ida. Miss Zohar reports that Ida insulted her harshly when she left, but that Beale greatly appreciates Miss Zohar's presence. Miss Zohar tells Maisie that if she shows a \"marked preference\" for living with her father and Miss Zohar, she may never have to go back to her mother's house. Maisie is not able to fully conceptualize this, but she knows that she likes Miss Zohar more than her father. She notes that her father seems to like Miss Zohar too", "analysis": "Maisie is six when her parents divorce and begin sending her back and forth from house to house. This is a very impressionable age, and the emotional trauma she suffers affects her greatly. Importantly, James writes, \"She found in her mind a collection of images and echoes to which meanings were attachable--images and echoes kept for her in the childish dusk, the dim closet, the high drawers, like games she wasn't big enough to play...A wonderful assortment of objects of this kind she was to discover there later\" . This quote shows that the things Maisie witnessed during her parents' dysfunctional marriage and subsequent divorce will remain in her subconscious, affecting her feelings and decisions later in the book. James uses this metaphor to set up the moral of the story, which is that the way a child is raised, especially any neglect or trauma they suffer, will affect them greatly later in life. Further evidence of Maisie's trauma comes from the symbol of her doll Jayme-Dee. Maisie acts toward Jayme-Dee the way that her mother acts toward her, mimicking her mother's secretive and emotionally abusive behavior, particularly the way she would leave for long periods of time and be secretive about where she was going. Maisie's behavior toward Jayme-Dee demonstrates the effect of this treatment on Maisie's psyche. Her treatment of Jayme-Dee calls attention to the way parents can pass down behavior and traits to their children, especially those present during early childhood. From the beginning of the book, James challenges common perceptions about what constitutes a good mother. Maisie thinks to herself, \" had been, with passion and anguish, a mother, and...this was something Miss Zohar was not, something  that mamma was even less\" . This contradicts the belief that motherhood is fundamentally a biological relation. This quote, which occurs quite early in the book, also foreshadows Maisie's decision to live with Mrs. Amaurie rather than Ida or Miss Zohar in the last chapter of the story. Some important facts about Mrs. Amaurie are mentioned in this part of the book and then largely do not recur in the rest of the story. Specifically, she had a daughter named Clara Matilda and a husband who is unnamed. Both are said to have died, Clara Matilda in a carriage accident and the husband by unknown causes. It is likely, from the way that James describes Mrs. Amaurie's secretiveness and discomfort around the subject of her husband, that Mrs. Amaurie actually had Clara Matilda out of wedlock, which was quite scandalous at the time. Furthermore, while it is not mentioned over the course of the book, Mrs. Amaurie's grief over raising a child without a committed husband and then losing that child likely motivate her empathy for Maisie and her desire to live as a family with Maisie and Sir Claude. One example of irony in What Maisie Knew that is particularly present in this section is Maisie's precocious perceptiveness. For a child no older than eight or nine, she often notices and verbalizes things that surprise the adults around her, and in some cases she seems more aware than the adults themselves. For example, Maisie suggests that Sir Claude might become her tutor to make his relationship with Ida more proper. Maisie explains this to Miss Zohar by saying \"Mightn't that make it right--as right as your being my governess makes it for you to be with papa?\" . Miss Zohar blushes, showing that Maisie understands more than she expected about her relationship with Beale and Sir Claude's relationship with Ida. Maisie's idea even foreshadows Sir Claude's involvement in her education."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lisette': 'Jayme-Dee', 'Overmore': 'Zohar', 'Wix': 'Amaurie', 'Wix\\': 'Oreoluwa', 'Eric': 'Phrasswell', 'Tischbein': 'Yuval', 'Cuddon': 'Ocean'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}