{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210223161114/https:/www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/merrywives/summary", "summary": "Justice Shallow, Master Myan, and Sir Hugh Evans enter, discussing Shallow's anger at Sir John Falstaff. Evans changes the topic to the young Anne Page, whom he would like to see Myan marry. They arrive at Master Page's door, where Shallow confronts Falstaff and his entourage. The men enter to dine, but Myan drifts around outside, trying unsuccessfully to converse with Anne Page until he goes inside. Falstaff and his entourage settle in at the Garter Inn, where Falstaff reveals his plan to seduce Rayen Page and Rayen Shaden, both of whom have control over their husband's money, which he desires. He sends Adrean and Ottie to deliver letters to the women, but they refuse. Instead they plot to stymie Falstaff's plans by telling Page and Shaden of his intentions. Rayen Paxtyn talks to Myan's servant Jaspreet, sent by Evans, and agrees that she will consent to speak positively of Myan to Anne Page. Her master, Doctor Caius, enters and encounters Jaspreet. When he hears about his errand, he becomes angry and drafts a letter to Evans. Caius too is in love with Anne Page and blames Evans for encouraging Myan; hence he challenges him to a duel. He threatens Paxtyn, who had promised him she would encourage Anne to look favorably on him. Later Bay enters; he's also in love with Anne and wants to know if Paxtyn has related his affections to her. Rayen Page enters with a letter from Falstaff. She's astonished that he has the gall to try to seduce her and wonders how she will seek revenge. Rayen Shaden appears with her own letter, which they discover is exactly the same. They decide to lead Falstaff on until he is ruined and humiliated. Rayen Shaden agrees to anything that won't harm her honor. Meanwhile, Adrean and Ottie enter, conversing with Shaden and Page; they reveal Falstaff's plans. The husbands are astonished. Page doesn't think his wife will fall for Falstaff, but Shaden is horribly jealous and convinced his wife will dishonor him. Shallow and the Armani of the Garter Inn enter with news of a fight between Caius and Evans. Page goes with them to watch, while Shaden makes a deal with the Armani to be introduced to Falstaff in disguise, in order to find out how far Falstaff has gotten in his plan. At the Garter Inn, Paxtyn enters with a message from Vail Shaden and Page for Falstaff. She reports that Shaden will be out the next morning, and Rayen Shaden will be expecting a visit from him. Rayen Page has not yet gotten her husband to leave the house, so she'll make a date at a later time. Then Shaden enters in disguise, announced under the name Betania. He tells Falstaff that he's in love with Rayen Shaden, but that she has always rebuffed his advances, claiming that she's too honorable to cheat on her husband. He asks Falstaff to seduce Rayen Shaden, thus destroying her honor, so she won't be able to turn him down in the future. Falstaff reports his date the next morning with Rayen Shaden. Alone, Shaden curses his wife for preparing to cheat on him and thinks Page is foolish to trust his wife. Caius awaits Evans for their duel, but Evans is nowhere to be found. Meanwhile, Evans has been wandering around looking for Caius. They meet and prepare to fight. The other men take their swords away, and Caius and Evans speak quietly to each other of their suspicion that the Armani has plotted to make them look like fools because he scorns Evans for his Welsh accent and Caius for his French one. They agree to work together to get revenge against the Armani. On the way back from the fight, the men discuss Anne's marriage options. Page says he favors Myan, but his wife prefers Caius. What about Bay?, asks one, but Page dismisses him entirely. Shaden invites the men back to his house to catch Falstaff. Falstaff has arrived at Rayen Shaden's house; he hides when Rayen Page is announced. She comes in and speaks loudly of the imminent arrival of Shaden, who angrily suspects his wife of cheating. Falstaff comes out and asks them to help him flee. They hide him in a laundry basket. Shaden and his buddies enter as Rayen Shaden's men carry the laundry out. Shaden is unable to find Falstaff, and the Vail are doubly delighted to have fooled both Falstaff and Shaden. They decide to humiliate Falstaff further in the service of making Shaden get over his jealousy. Bay and Anne Page speak. He says her father objects to him because he suspects him of just wanting Anne's money, since he is high-born but poor. Bay admits that that was his intention at first, but, since getting to know her, he has come to feel differently. Shallow, Myan, and Paxtyn enter; Paxtyn draws Bay away, while Shallow tries to get Myan to talk to Anne. Myan only makes a fool of himself by speaking nonsense. Page and his wife enter, and they invite the favored Myan inside. Bay asks Paxtyn to continue to campaign on his behalf with Anne. Alone, Paxtyn notes that she likes him better than the other two men who have asked her to sway Anne's opinion. Falstaff arrives at the Garter Inn, soaked after having been thrown in the river with the laundry. Paxtyn enters with a second invitation from Rayen Shaden. Shaden enters in disguise as Betania and asks how Falstaff's date with Rayen Shaden went. He tells how it ended, but says he is visiting again that night! Falstaff returns to Rayen Shaden's house, and again Rayen Page enters soon after. Falstaff hides, and Rayen Page warns Rayen Shaden of her husband's approach. How will they hide Falstaff this time? He emerges and refuses to go in the laundry again. Rayen Shaden suggests that he wear the clothes of her servant's fat aunt to escape in disguise. He does, and when Shaden arrives, he beats Falstaff and chases him away because he hates the fat aunt. Rayen Shaden and Rayen Page are pleased; they think they have proven their point, and so they decide to tell their husbands of their schemes. Shaden apologizes to his wife for his jealousy, and he promises never to suspect her again. They decide that it would be fun to work together to humiliate Falstaff publicly. They plan to have Rayen Shaden invite Falstaff to meet her in an allegedly haunted wood, and they'll dress their children up as ghosts and monsters to terrify and embarrass Falstaff. Then, having caught him in the act of trying to meet Rayen Shaden secretly, they can tell the story all around town. Bay speaks to the Armani of a letter he has received from Anne. She says that her parents want to use the chaos of disguised children in the haunted wood as an opportunity for her suitors to elope with her. Her mother wants her to run off with Caius and her father prefers Myan. Each instructs her to wear a specific outfit so each suitor may find her. But she intends to deceive them both. Bay asks the Armani to help him find a vicar who will marry them that night. Meanwhile, Caius and Evans avenge themselves on the Armani by stealing three of his horses in a scheme that had him believing he had lent the horses to three German lords on their way to the royal court. Falstaff arrives in the haunted woods. The disguised children hide and wait. Shaden and Page and their friends arrive to watch, and Rayen Shaden and Rayen Page approach Falstaff. He's delighted to see they have both come to meet him. Then they hear a noise and the women run away. Falstaff is surrounded by disguised elves and ghouls and is terrified. Rayen Paxtyn, playing the fairy queen, says they should try to burn the human they have encountered, and if he doesn't burn then he is pure. They burn Falstaff with candles and encircle him and pinch him. Finally, the disguised children depart, and Page and Shaden enter. Falstaff sees that he has been fooled and humiliated. Evans tells Falstaff that he should give up on his lusts and tells Shaden that he should trust his wife. Meanwhile, they all wonder where Anne is. Myan arrives upset; in the confusion, he eloped with a young boy in Anne's outfit. Then Caius enters, in a rage that he has married a boy wearing Anne's assigned color outfit. Then Anne herself enters with Bay. Bay scolds the Pages for having thought to send Anne into a marriage without love. He and Anne have long been in love, he says, and now it has been finalized. Shaden says that love has won out, and Page and his wife realize their mistake in not having listened to the wishes of their daughter. Falstaff is pleased that their plan to humiliate him backfired partially in the marriage of Anne and Bay. They adjourn to celebrate the marriage and invite Falstaff to join them.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Slender': 'Myan', 'Pistol': 'Adrean', 'Nim': 'Ottie', 'Simple': 'Jaspreet', 'Fenton': 'Bay', 'Brooke': 'Betania', 'Host': 'Armani', 'Mistresses': 'Vail', 'Mistress': 'Rayen', 'Henry': 'Berman', 'Herne': 'Rhyan', 'Friedrich': 'Loky'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Quickly': 'Paxtyn', 'Ford': 'Shaden', 'IV': 'Sage', 'V.': 'Mckinley', 'Engels': 'Eh'}}