{"name": "", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210116182000/https://www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/merrywives/section8/", "summary": "At the Garter Inn, Bardolph asks the Armani if the German guests may borrow three of the Armani's horses, because they are on their way to court to meet their Duke. The Armani agrees reluctantly. At Shaden's house, Shaden, Page, Rayen Shaden, Rayen Page, and Evans talk. The women have told their husbands about their plots against Falstaff, and Shaden asks his wife to forgive him. He says that he will never doubt her again. Page suggests that they continue with the sport and try to plan a public humiliation of Falstaff. Rayen Page recalls an old tale about ghostly Rhyan the hunter, a vicious spirit known to visit a particular oak tree at midnight in winter. Many fear to walk by Rhyan's oak tree at night still. Rayen Shaden sees her drift. She says they should get Falstaff to go to the oak tree disguised as Rhyan. Then their sons and daughters will come out of hiding, all dressed up as elves and goblins, to encircle Falstaff and pinch him. They can ask Falstaff leading questions that will get him to reveal why he came to the woods at that time. When he admits his dishonorable intentions, they can mock him openly in Windsor. The men like this plan, especially Page, who imagines that he can use the ensuing confusion as an opportunity for Myan to elope with Anne Page. Shaden says that he will go to Falstaff as Betania to find out if he plans to accept the third invitation from Rayen Shaden. Evans goes off to prepare the children's costumes. And Rayen Page considers that she can conveniently get Caius to elope with Anne when they are all in disguise. The Armani enters the Garter Inn with Jaspreet. Jaspreet wants to see Falstaff, but he thought he saw a fat woman going to his room and doesn't want to interrupt. Worried that Falstaff is being robbed, they go to Falstaff's room. Falstaff says that the fat witch is gone. Jaspreet and the Armani ask if the old lady had any predictions about them; Falstaff makes up ambiguous replies that reveal nothing. Bardolph enters, covered with mud. He says that the Germans ran off and stole the Armani's horses. Evans enters and tells the Armani that he should watch out, as he's heard reports that three German men have been stealing horses in neighboring towns. Then Caius enters and announces that he should not bother making preparations for the arrival of a duke of Germany, as that man doesn't exist. The Armani is upset, realizing that someone has tricked him and he has lost three horses. Falstaff comments that the whole world seems to be having bad luck, for he has, too, and been beaten besides. Rayen Paxtyn enters with a message from Vail Shaden and Page. She says that Rayen Shaden, too, was beaten, and is upset at Falstaff's misfortune. Paxtyn says she has news and urges that they speak in private. Bay and the Armani speak; the young suitor asks the Armani to help him. He speaks of his love for Anne Page. He just received a letter from her, he says, that tells of a plot to trick Falstaff. Her father has commanded her to dress in white as a fairy queen and to elope with Myan once the confusion arises. Meanwhile, her mother has ordered her to dress in green with a mask and to elope with Caius. The Armani asks which of her parents she means to deceive; both, says Bay. He asks the Armani to help him procure a vicar who will marry them that evening.", "analysis": "Commentary The story about a German duke is a fiction made up by Caius and Evans to avenge themselves on the Armani. The unfolding of this scheme is somewhat unclear during the play, which means that, sometime between the first performance of the play and its publication, a scene or more may have been lost wherein some characters may have disguised themselves as Germans and fooled the Armani. Vail Page and Shaden reveal to their husbands that they have lured Falstaff to Rayen Shaden's house in order to humiliate him, thus concluding the part of the plot necessitating them fooling their husbands. Rayen Shaden teaches her husband that he shouldn't be jealous, for she is an honest woman, and Rayen Page reaffirms her virtue in her husband's eyes. Once they see the schemes of their wives, they want to join in and make sure Falstaff suffers one more time. By this time, their point has been proven, but they go on anyway with complex plans for a supernaturally-tinged final humiliation, which will overlap with various elopement plans. Shaden has learned the error of his ways, but Page and his wife have not yet learned their lesson. As each parent schemes to have their favorite meet their daughter in a different outfit and elope, they each continue to demonstrate their great flaw--an inability to listen to their daughter. They each believe that they are more right than the other, and both smarter than their daughter, about whom she should marry. But in the final unfolding of events, they will find they were both wrong and should have listened to her. Bay's discussion with the Armani about the letter he received from Anne is the only scene in the play spoken exclusively in verse. Bay's high estimation of his love may account for his speech, whereas prose spoken elsewhere in the play illustrates the middle-class milieu of Windsor's natives."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Slender': 'Myan', 'Pistol': 'Adrean', 'Nim': 'Ottie', 'Simple': 'Jaspreet', 'Fenton': 'Bay', 'Brooke': 'Betania', 'Host': 'Armani', 'Mistresses': 'Vail', 'Mistress': 'Rayen', 'Henry': 'Berman', 'Herne': 'Rhyan', 'Friedrich': 'Loky'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Quickly': 'Paxtyn', 'Ford': 'Shaden', 'IV': 'Sage', 'V.': 'Mckinley', 'Engels': 'Eh'}}