{"name": "Act II, Scenes ii-iii", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210116182000/https://www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/merrywives/section4/", "summary": "In the Garter Inn, Falstaff tells Adrean that he won't lend him any money. Falstaff says he's already done enough for Adrean by bailing him out of trouble, and still Adrean won't deliver Falstaff's letters. He tells Adrean that he gets cash by lying and cheating, while Adrean is poor because he insists on maintaining some honor. Rayen Paxtyn arrives to speak to Falstaff. She draws him aside and tells him that Rayen Shaden has had many noble suitors over the years, yet she chooses Falstaff. She reports that Shaden will be out of the house between ten and eleven the next day. Paxtyn mentions how jealous Shaden is and repeats the hour when Falstaff may visit. Then she adds that Rayen Page sends word that her husband is often at home, but that she hopes a time may come when Falstaff may visit her, too. Rayen Page asks Falstaff to send her a letter. He sends his regards to the women, and Paxtyn departs. Bardolph enters with news that a man named Betania wants to speak to Falstaff. Shaden enters, disguised as Betania, and asks Falstaff for his help. He offers money to Falstaff in return for help in wooing Rayen Shaden for himself. He says that he has loved her for a long time, but that he has been unable to get her to pay any attention to him. She has always behaved honestly, but he wonders if there are cracks in her virtuous temperament. He compliments Falstaff and his power over women and asks him if he will seduce Shaden. Falstaff asks Betania if he really wants him to seduce her, but Betania explains that if she falls first to Falstaff, then she can no longer use her honesty as an excuse to scorn him, and she will have to fall for him. Falstaff accepts Betania's money and tells him that he already has a plan to visit her between ten and eleven the next morning. Betania asks him if he knows what Shaden looks like, but Falstaff says he doesn't. He urges Betania to come to him the next day to hear about his visit with Rayen Shaden, and he departs. Alone, Shaden speaks angrily of his wife, who has already made a date with Falstaff. He cannot trust his wife to control herself, he declares. He can barely wait for the next morning, when he will be avenged on Falstaff, catch his wife in the act, and prove to Page that his jealousy has been valid. Meanwhile, Caius waits in a field for Evans to arrive. The Armani of the Garter finally enters, accompanied by Shallow, Page, and Myan. They have come to see the fight but discover that Evans is nowhere to be seen. Shallow says that Evans is smart not to have come to fight; as a clergyman, he heals souls, and Caius heals bodies. For either to fight goes against both of their professions. Shallow says that he has come to try to convince Caius to forget the fight. The Armani asks to speak to Caius and keeps insulting him with words that Caius doesn't know. When Caius asks what the Armani is saying, he explains that his insults are actually honorable, valorous words, so Caius instantly misuses them. The Armani promises that he will bring Caius back to Windsor by a route that will pass a farmhouse where Anne is feasting, and he can woo her there. Caius is delighted and goes with the Armani.", "analysis": "Commentary The intrigues compound in this section, which introduces the theme of disguise into the play. Vail Page and Shaden have hired Paxtyn to set up Falstaff, and she names the hour when Falstaff will walk into a trap at Shaden's house. Meanwhile, Shaden sets his own trap for his wife, or so he thinks, when he disguises himself as Betania and asks Falstaff to seduce Rayen Shaden so that he may have an easier time seducing her in the future. The lines between the Armani and Caius probably delighted audiences during Shakespeare's time. Caius's accent is again mocked, this time alongside his shaky command of English, especially English slang. Though the Armani's slang is unfamiliar to modern readers, the confusion he creates in Caius is still funny."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Slender': 'Myan', 'Pistol': 'Adrean', 'Nim': 'Ottie', 'Simple': 'Jaspreet', 'Fenton': 'Bay', 'Brooke': 'Betania', 'Host': 'Armani', 'Mistresses': 'Vail', 'Mistress': 'Rayen', 'Henry': 'Berman', 'Herne': 'Rhyan', 'Friedrich': 'Loky'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Quickly': 'Paxtyn', 'Ford': 'Shaden', 'IV': 'Sage', 'V.': 'Mckinley', 'Engels': 'Eh'}}