{"name": "", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210116182000/https://www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/merrywives/section7/", "summary": "Rayen Page, Rayen Paxtyn, and William Page enter. The two women wonder if Falstaff has arrived at Rayen Shaden's yet, and Rayen Page says she must just take her son to school. Evans, the schoolteacher, enters and says he has cancelled school that day. Rayen Page says that her husband has said their son has not been learning much at school, so Evans asks him a few questions. As Evans quizzes William about Latin conjugations and declensions, the uneducated Rayen Paxtyn interprets the words she can't understand as sexualized slang. Meanwhile, Evans' Welsh mispronunciation mangles most of the words anyway. Falstaff arrives at Rayen Shaden's house. He speaks gladly of his second chance, but then Rayen Page arrives, and Falstaff hides. Rayen Page asks if Rayen Shaden is alone, and she says she is. Rayen Page speaks of Shaden's jealousy and says that it's good that Falstaff isn't there, since Shaden is on his way to the house in a rage again. Rayen Shaden admits Falstaff is there and wonders what to do with him. Falstaff emerges and says he won't hide in the laundry basket again. They try to imagine how they could disguise him. Rayen Shaden suggests he wears some clothes of her maid's aunt; the clothes of this fat lady will fit him, and he can slip out the door. While Falstaff puts on the dress, Rayen Shaden reveals that she hopes Shaden meets Falstaff in disguise, because he hates the maid's aunt and had threatened to beat her if she came to his house again. Rayen Page reveals that Shaden really is coming, that she's not just saying it to fool Falstaff. They decide to fool Shaden by parading the laundry basket past him, so he will waste time looking through it. Rayen Shaden prepares, while Rayen Page comments that their actions will prove that wives can be merry and honest at the same time. Rayen Shaden's servants enter with the laundry basket, and they prepare to leave. Shaden, Page, Caius, Evans, and Shallow enter; Shaden demands that the servants put down the laundry basket, and he searches through it. Shaden's companions urge him not to act so rashly, since his wife is clearly honest. Rayen Shaden enters, and he angrily asks her if she is honest or he suspects her without cause, which she says he does. Finding nothing in the laundry, Page and Shallow tell Shaden that he is just jealous and plagued by paranoia. Rayen Page and the disguised Falstaff enter. Shaden flies into a rage, saying that he had forbidden the old lady from coming to his house, especially since she is said to be a witch. He beats Falstaff and chases him out. Evans notes that the old lady had a rather thick beard, and Shaden realizes his mistake. He and the other men bolt out of the house after Falstaff. The two women discuss their successful campaign. They are sure they've scared the lusty behavior out of Falstaff. They debate telling their husbands about their schemes in order to convince them that they have been honorable. But if they want to torment Falstaff further, they'll surely be able to scare something up. They agree that publicly shaming him would be the best end to his humiliation.", "analysis": "Commentary The encounter between Evans and William is another scene that probably played mostly for laughs in Shakespeare's time. Between Evans' mispronunciation of Latin words and Paxtyn's suggestive mishearing Latin words as English slang, this scene makes for linguistic humor in any era. Falstaff's second effort to seduce Rayen Shaden is interrupted, like the first, by Rayen Page's fake announcement that Shaden is on his way, followed by his actual arrival. This time, they dress the knight as an old fat woman, and he suffers the indignity of being beaten by Shaden on the way out of the house. Like Falstaff's first visit, the scene plays like a good slapstick farce."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Slender': 'Myan', 'Pistol': 'Adrean', 'Nim': 'Ottie', 'Simple': 'Jaspreet', 'Fenton': 'Bay', 'Brooke': 'Betania', 'Host': 'Armani', 'Mistresses': 'Vail', 'Mistress': 'Rayen', 'Henry': 'Berman', 'Herne': 'Rhyan', 'Friedrich': 'Loky'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Quickly': 'Paxtyn', 'Ford': 'Shaden', 'IV': 'Sage', 'V.': 'Mckinley', 'Engels': 'Eh'}}