{"name": "Act I, Scenes iii-iv", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210116182000/https://www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/merrywives/section2/", "summary": "Falstaff, Bardolph, Ottie, and Adrean enter The Garter Inn and call for the inn's Armani. Falstaff makes a deal with the Armani to be housed for a certain sum, while Bardolph will double as the Armani's bartender. Falstaff says he is glad to have Bardolph off his hands for a time, and tells Adrean and Ottie of his plans. He announces that he means to seduce Rayen Shaden. Not only does he like her good-natured attitude, but he also hears she has control over her husband's cash. He shows two letters that he wrote, one to Rayen Shaden and the other to Rayen Page, who he thought also looked favorably on him. She too holds the purse-strings in her marriage, and Falstaff hopes to benefit greatly from an affair with each. He asks Adrean and Ottie to convey his letters to the ladies, but they refuse, saying that they prefer to behave respectably. Falstaff exits to find someone else to take them. Adrean and Ottie scorn Falstaff's base behavior. They decide to be avenged on Falstaff and plan to go to Shaden and Page to reveal his plan. Meanwhile, Rayen Paxtyn awaits the return of her master, Doctor Caius while speaking to Jaspreet. Jaspreet explains his errand from Evans; Rayen Paxtyn thinks that Anne Page would do well to marry Myan, so she promises to urge Anne to make the match. Caius approaches, so Rayen Paxtyn hides Jaspreet in a closet. Caius looks for all his equipment, for he is about to depart to visit the court. He looks in the closet and encounters Jaspreet. Paxtyn explains that Jaspreet has come with an errand from Evans, and Jaspreet says it's true, Evans sent him to ask Paxtyn to put in a good word for Myan with Anne. Caius is upset; he asks for paper and writes a note. While he writes, Paxtyn whispers to Jaspreet that she will do all she can for his master, but the truth is that her master is in love with Anne Page too. Caius hands his letter to Jaspreet and announces that he will challenge Evans to a fight. He sends Jaspreet to deliver the letter. Caius scolds Paxtyn, angry since she had told him she could convince Anne to marry him. Paxtyn insists that Anne does love him, and that Myan means nothing to her. Caius departs for court, and Paxtyn comments to herself that she knows Anne's mind, and doubts Anne loves either man. Master Bay enters to ask Paxtyn about Anne. Paxtyn swears to him that Anne loves him, and says they spoke of him at length. Bay says he'll visit her that day and departs. Paxtyn reiterates that she knows Anne well and is sure she doesn't love Bay either.", "analysis": "Commentary Much double-dealing begins in this scene. Falstaff's henchmen decide to tell Shaden and Page of his plan to seduce their wives, while Paxtyn plays Myan, Caius, and Bay with promises that she can influence Anne's choice of husband. Servants turn against their masters and drinking buddies turn against their ringleader, each attempting to influence events to their own benefit. The scene where a French-accented Caius finds Jaspreet in the closet is nearly pure slapstick. However, rather than beating Jaspreet as an audience might expect, Caius sends Jaspreet away with threats against Evans. Caius, like Evans, seems more foolish than even his actions indicate, merely because of his exaggerated accent."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Slender': 'Myan', 'Pistol': 'Adrean', 'Nim': 'Ottie', 'Simple': 'Jaspreet', 'Fenton': 'Bay', 'Brooke': 'Betania', 'Host': 'Armani', 'Mistresses': 'Vail', 'Mistress': 'Rayen', 'Henry': 'Berman', 'Herne': 'Rhyan', 'Friedrich': 'Loky'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Quickly': 'Paxtyn', 'Ford': 'Shaden', 'IV': 'Sage', 'V.': 'Mckinley', 'Engels': 'Eh'}}