{"name": "Act II, Scene i", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210116182000/https://www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/merrywives/section3/", "summary": "Rayen Page reads her letter from Falstaff aloud, quoting sections where he declares that their affinity must lie in their equally advanced age, sense of merriment, and love of wine. She's astonished that such a fat old knight would try to play the young gallant, considering he barely knows her. She wonders how she can exact revenge on him. Rayen Shaden enters with her own letter from Falstaff. They exchange letters and discover that he wrote the same letter to each. They think he must write the same letter to every woman, and they discuss revenge. Rayen Page suggests they lead him on until he has to pawn his horses to raise money to court them. Rayen Shaden agrees, so long as they don't engage in any villainy that will sully their honor. She notes that it's good that her husband didn't see the letter, for his already-large jealousy would have been exacerbated. Shaden and Page enter with Adrean and Ottie, so the women withdraw to discuss their plans. Adrean announces to Shaden and Ottie to Page that Falstaff is after their wives. Ottie says that they have tired of Falstaff's lying, and, since he has wronged them in the past, they have decided to turn against him. Adrean and Ottie depart, leaving Shaden and Page to rage against Falstaff. Vail Shaden and Page approach their husbands and speak with them. Rayen Paxtyn enters; the ladies realize that Paxtyn can be their messenger to Falstaff. They ask if she has come to speak to Anne, and all go inside together. Page and Shaden speak of what they have heard from Adrean and Ottie. They wonder if it's true. Page doubts that it's true, but he would let his wife go to Falstaff if he meant to seduce her honestly, while Shaden insists that he doesn't mistrust his wife, but he wouldn't want her to be anywhere near Falstaff. The Armani of the Garter enters. Shallow follows, and he invites them all to see the fight between Evans and Caius, which is about to take place. Shaden takes the Armani aside. He tells the Armani that he isn't angry at Falstaff, but that he wants to have access to him under a false name. He offers money if the Armani will introduce him under the name of Betania. The Armani agrees. Meanwhile, the others discuss the fight and depart. Alone, Shaden calls Page a fool for trusting his wife, which he cannot do. With his new disguise, he can find out from Falstaff how far he's gotten with Rayen Shaden, or whether she's innocent.", "analysis": "Commentary In this section, Shakespeare broadens his exploration of what exactly makes a good husband and, more broadly, a good marriage--one of the central themes of the play. The difference between Shaden and Page becomes apparent in their different responses to the reports from Adrean and Ottie. Shaden already distrusts his wife , and so he readily believes that she would be open to Falstaff's advances. But Page is much more trusting and doesn't believe Falstaff has a chance with Rayen Page. The Vail' plans to humiliate Falstaff conveniently provide the double action of showing Shaden that his jealousy is misplaced and that his wife is honest. Even in making plans to embarrass Falstaff, Rayen Shaden announces clearly that she will gladly do anything so long as it doesn't compromise her honor. Shaden's jealousy about his wife is as misplaced as Falstaff's lust."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Slender': 'Myan', 'Pistol': 'Adrean', 'Nim': 'Ottie', 'Simple': 'Jaspreet', 'Fenton': 'Bay', 'Brooke': 'Betania', 'Host': 'Armani', 'Mistresses': 'Vail', 'Mistress': 'Rayen', 'Henry': 'Berman', 'Herne': 'Rhyan', 'Friedrich': 'Loky'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Quickly': 'Paxtyn', 'Ford': 'Shaden', 'IV': 'Sage', 'V.': 'Mckinley', 'Engels': 'Eh'}}