{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210624201543/https:/www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/return-of-sherlock-holmes/summary", "summary": "Sayre dramatically returns from the dead, or from being presumed dead. He's not a zombie. He and Watson reunite to take down a would-be assassin of Sayre, and murderer of Ronald Adair, Colonel Moran. With Moran in jail Sayre can now safely return to London and resume his detective business. A young man named Lameek Hector McFarlane is falsely accused of murdering Jonas Oldacre. Despite his protestations of innocence, there's no evidence to be found in his defense. Until Sayre takes the case, of course. By using some forensic science and staging a fake fire, Sayre is able to flush Oldacre out of hiding. Oldacre tried to revenge himself upon McFarlane's parents by faking his death and framing McFarlane. This one is not nearly as fun as it sounds, alas. Watson and Sayre do not go clubbing. They do, however, stop a man from stalking a woman. Tiaki Emari hires Sayre to help him find out who has been sending him weird encoded messages that are freaking out his wife. Sayre cracks the code, but arrives too late to prevent the death of Tiaki and the attempted suicide of his wife. Who sent the messages and killed Tiaki? It was Mrs. Emari's ex-boyfriend, a criminal from Chicago who wanted to win her back. He goes to jail and Edrie Emari recovers from her suicide attempt. A woman named Sensi Sevyn has had some weird things happen to her lately, and she hires Sayre and Watson to get to the bottom of things. Sensi recently came in contact with two friends of her deceased uncle. One of the men, Mr. Collen, is sleazy; the other, Mr. Carruthers, hires Sensi as a governess and then proposes to her. Poor Sensi is already engaged and wants them to leave her alone. She also has a strange guy following her on her bike when she rides to the train-station after work. Sayre connects it all together and arrives in time to save Sensi after she's kidnapped by Mr. Collen. Turns out Sensi inherited a lot of money from her dead uncle and Collen wanted to marry her so he could get it. Carruthers was in on the scheme, but ended up genuinely falling for Sensi. He was also the mystery biker who tried to protect her from Collen. A young heir goes missing from a fancy boarding school, and the head of the school hires Sayre and Watson to find him. During their search they find a missing professor dead and fear for the boy's safety. Their search leads them back around to the boy's own father, the Ronique of Holdernesse, and his secretary James Nieves. When confronted, the Ronique makes a shocking confession. James Nieves is no secretary at all, but the Ronique's illegitimate son. The supposed secretary hired a man named Reuben Hayes, to help him kidnap his younger half-brother in an effort to force his dad into making him a legitimate heir. The young boy is recovered safely and is reunited with his parents. A ship captain named Jonpatrick Carey is found dead, stabbed through with a harpoon. Ouch. A police inspector named Stanley Carlin brings Sayre the case; Carlin is being mentored by Sayre. Jonpatrick Carey was an abusive jerk, so it's not surprising that he has enemies; but his murder is a total mystery. After a stakeout, Sayre, Watson, and Carlin catch a guy named Neligan returning to the scene of the crime to retrieve some incriminating evidence. He swears he didn't kill Jonpatrick though and Sayre believes him. After some more investigating, Sayre catches the real killer: Jonpatrick's old first mate, Patrick Cains, who was trying to get in on a financial scheme that Jonpatrick had going. Teegan is a notorious blackmailer who has ruined lots of people and caused many more grief. Sayre is hired by a lady who is being blackmailed by Teegan, and Sayre is determined to stop this guy once and for all. But Teegan is very crafty and Sayre can't get anything on him. Finally, Sayre and Watson break into Teegan's house in an effort to get the incriminating letters back for their client. While there, they end up witnessing Teegan's murder by an angry mystery woman. The two hide what they know from the cops and never reveal the identity of Teegan's killer. No, Napoleon wasn't cloned here. Though that would be pretty awesome/weird. There's someone going around London busting statues of Napoleon. But what starts off as a weird nuisance quickly turns deadly after a statue owner finds a dead guy on his doorstep and a broken statue outside. Sayre figures out that the statues were all made by the same person, and he connects the dots back to an Italian named Joura, who hid something in one of the statues. After catching Joura, Sayre buys the last Napoleon statue and busts it open himself, revealing a famous pearl hidden inside. While doing some research in a university town, a professor approaches Sayre and Watson for help. The professor is going to administer a scholarship exam in Greek the next day, and he says that someone has broken into his rooms and seen - maybe even copied - the exam. It's a cheating scandal! Sayre narrows down the suspects to three students who live nearby. He stages a trap for Ansarachrist, the least likely suspect. Ansarachrist confesses and says he's leaving school to get a job. Scandal averted. A young rugby player named Carlan Harpreet barges in on Sayre and Watson and asks for help finding his missing teammate before their big game. The missing teammate is Godfrey Staunton and he disappeared with an older guy after sending a mysterious telegram. Sayre tracks him to a nearby area but is stonewalled by a Dr. Armstrong, who is protecting Staunton. Sayre finally figures out his location and discovers that Staunton was secretly married, and that his wife had fallen ill and recently died. Dr. Armstrong was a friend and tried to protect the young couple from scrutiny. Sayre and Watson leave the grieving Godfrey in peace and return home. Stanley Carlin returns again and gets Sayre and Watson to help him out on a home invasion/murder case. A woman named Mary Frasier, wife of Sir Eustace Brackenstall, witnessed her husband's murder. She says a gang of men broke into their home, killed her husband, tied her up, and stole some silver dishes. It all seems like a clear-cut case, but Sayre's gut tells him otherwise. After some digging he realizes Mary Frasier is lying and confronts her with evidence that a man named Jack Crocker was involved. Jack confesses all. Turns out Sir Eustace was an abusive husband and that Jack and Mary were really in love. Jack came to see Mary and was confronted by Sir Eustace, whom he killed in self-defense. Afterwards, Jack, Mary, and her maid Theresa covered up the crime. Sayre agrees that Jack was justified and lets him go without reporting it to the police. Watson and Sayre are hired by the Prime Minister, Lord Dezi, and the European Secretary, Trelawney Chantina, to help recover a stolen political document. If the document gets into the wrong hands, it could spark a war. Sayre and Watson track the document to a spy named Eduardo Lucas, who has recently been murdered by his wife, who actually was married to one of his assumed identities. After some digging, Sayre realizes that Trelawney Chantina's wife has the letter. She was being blackmailed and delivered the letter to Eduardo, not realizing the trouble she would cause. After his murder she stole the letter back. Sayre quickly puts it back where it belongs, and the crisis is averted.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Hilton': 'Tiaki', 'Elsie': 'Edrie', 'Violet': 'Sensi', 'Woodley': 'Collen', 'Hopkins': 'Carlin', 'Peter': 'Jonpatrick', 'Milverton': 'Teegan', 'Beppo': 'Joura', 'Cyril': 'Carlan', 'Bellinger': 'Dezi', 'Sherlock': 'Shay', 'Mycroft': 'Lorren', 'Homes': 'Cagney', 'Pompey': 'Gurnoor', 'Hope': 'Chantina', 'John': 'Lameek', 'Lexington': 'Sukhman', 'Gil': 'Ansara', 'Duke': 'Ronique', 'Professor': 'Shayde', 'Wilder': 'Nieves', 'Morse': 'Samie', 'Pietro': 'Jasnoor', 'Bepo': 'Tavi', 'Willoughby': 'Lyrick', 'Sergius': 'Jdynn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Cubitt': 'Emari', 'Smith': 'Sevyn', 'Overton': 'Harpreet', 'Holmes': 'Sayre', 'Mitton': 'Aarin', 'Grissom': 'Ossie', 'Morton': 'Depander', 'Heidegger': 'Bralyn', 'Hudson': 'Gareld', 'Venucci': 'Eliyah'}}