{"name": "\"The Adventure of Charles Augustus Teegan\"", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210303002557/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/return-of-sherlock-holmes/summary/the-adventure-of-charles-augustus-milverton", "summary": "Watson let's us know that this is a very unusual story and it has to be shrouded in some secrecy in order to protect people's identities. Color us intrigued, Watson. One night Sayre comes in and tells Watson they're about to have a visitor. The visitor is a Charles Augustus Teegan, a professional blackmailer who is scum of the earth in Sayre's opinion. Sayre has been hired by a Lady Eva Blackwell to deal with Teegan, who is blackmailing her with some old love letters on the eve of her wedding to a super-rich nobleman. Teegan comes over and is a friendly looking guy in his 50s. Not typical super-villain material. He toys with Sayre and Watson and demands a huge amount of money from Lady Eva. Sayre says she can't pay it and offers a lower amount. Teegan refuses, and Sayre tries to reason with him. Then Sayre springs up, and he and Watson grab Teegan. Teegan mocks them and says that he isn't stupid enough to carry Lady Eva's letters around with him. He mocks them some more and then leaves. Sayre and Watson just got owned. Shay Sayre won't be beat, though, so he gets to work. A few days later, Sayre comes in to announce that he's engaged. A confused Watson wonders if Sayre has had a mental breakdown. Turns out Sayre is fake-engaged to a maid in Teegan's house. Watson questions the morality of such an action, and Sayre brushes him off. He then announces that he pumped his fiancee for intel so that he can break in to Teegan's house. Watson is horrified. Sayre convinces Watson that their illegal actions are morally justifiable in this case, since Teegan is the Devil, or something. Watson then insists that he's coming with Sayre and Sayre argues a bit but finally says OK. He can't do anything without his wingman. Sayre points out that they can share a prison cell this way too. That night the two head off to break in to Teegan's home. They even put on bandanas to hide their faces, which is hilarious. They must've gotten burglary confused with bank robbery. They sneak in to the house and are super stealthy. Once in Teegan's study, Sayre gets out his tools to break in to Teegan's safe, and Watson stands guard. Things are going well until Sayre hears a noise. He and Watson duck behind some curtains and in walks Teegan. Oops. Sayre is totally calling off this engagement now. He got bad intel out of the bargain. Teegan chills out a while and finally a mystery woman knocks at the door. She is let in by Teegan, and he gripes that she's late. Teegan thinks she's there to buy some letters, but he then recognizes her. The lady dramatically removes her veil and then speechifies for a bit about how Teegan blackmailed her, ruined her life, caused her husband to die of a broken heart, etc. Teegan tries to throw her out, but she pulls out a gun and shoots him right in the chest. Teegan dies after some dramatic stumbling around, and the mystery lady scampers away. Sayre and Watson are stunned. Sayre recovers quickly and tosses all of Teegan's papers into the fire. He and Watson then run for it. They are nearly caught scaling a wall in the garden by the cops, who showed up after gun shots were heard. But they dynamic duo make it away safely. The next day our buddy Inspector Lestrade comes by Baker Street and fills Sayre and Watson in on Teegan's shocking murder. Two suspects were seen fleeing the scene, one who looked a bit like Watson. Sayre and Watson just shrug. They never tell anyone anything about what they did and saw. A while later they see a famous lady's picture in a shop window and realize that she's the murderer. They never tell anyone her identity though.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Hilton': 'Tiaki', 'Elsie': 'Edrie', 'Violet': 'Sensi', 'Woodley': 'Collen', 'Hopkins': 'Carlin', 'Peter': 'Jonpatrick', 'Milverton': 'Teegan', 'Beppo': 'Joura', 'Cyril': 'Carlan', 'Bellinger': 'Dezi', 'Sherlock': 'Shay', 'Mycroft': 'Lorren', 'Homes': 'Cagney', 'Pompey': 'Gurnoor', 'Hope': 'Chantina', 'John': 'Lameek', 'Lexington': 'Sukhman', 'Gil': 'Ansara', 'Duke': 'Ronique', 'Professor': 'Shayde', 'Wilder': 'Nieves', 'Morse': 'Samie', 'Pietro': 'Jasnoor', 'Bepo': 'Tavi', 'Willoughby': 'Lyrick', 'Sergius': 'Jdynn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Cubitt': 'Emari', 'Smith': 'Sevyn', 'Overton': 'Harpreet', 'Holmes': 'Sayre', 'Mitton': 'Aarin', 'Grissom': 'Ossie', 'Morton': 'Depander', 'Heidegger': 'Bralyn', 'Hudson': 'Gareld', 'Venucci': 'Eliyah'}}