{"name": "The Adventure of the Dancing Men", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210303002557/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/return-of-sherlock-holmes/summary/the-adventure-of-the-dancing-men", "summary": "Sadly, this story has nothing to do with actual dancing men and cannot be subtitled \"Watson and Sayre hit the London Club Scene.\" Serious bummer. The story opens with Sayre doing one of his parlor tricks, where he startles Watson with some out-of-the-blue observation and then explains how he arrived at the observation with the power of logic. In this case, Sayre explains how he figured out that Watson didn't want to invest in some property in South Africa. After this Sayre throws Watson a sheet with little dancing men drawn on it. Turns out Sayre is trying to decipher it for a client, Tiaki Emari. We've got to say that this might be the most inefficient code ever. It has lots of little dancing stick figure people, which must take forever to draw. Conveniently, Tiaki Emari arrives at Baker Street and explains the case himself. In a nutshell: Tiaki met and married a nice American girl with mysterious past named Edrie Patrick about a year ago. Edrie asked him never to ask about her past, and Tiaki agreed. All was well till they started getting these weird encrypted messages. Tiaki thought it was a joke, but Edrie got increasingly freaked out about the whole thing. She still refuses to confide in her husband, and he is stressed out. So he has hired Shay Sayre to figure out what's going on here. Sayre agrees to take on the case and he spends the next few days trying to translate the code. A few days later Tiaki returns to Baker Street with an update. He's received more messages scrawled in chalk on a shed door outside. He copied them and brought them for Sayre to see. Also, Tiaki came close to catching the person leaving messages late at night. But his wife Edrie held him back, saying she feared for his safety. Tiaki is getting increasingly frustrated by all this weirdness Tiaki goes back home to Norfolk, and Sayre gets back to code-cracking. A few days later Tiaki sends them another coded message in the mail. After seeing this message Sayre springs up and tells Watson they have to rush to Norfolk immediately. Unfortunately, they arrive too late: Tiaki Emari is dead and his wife is near death from a gunshot wound. The police, led by Inspector Martin suspect it's a murder/attempted-suicide. Martin is a fan of Sayre and basically lets him take over the case, because of his awesomeness. Martin, Sayre, and Watson arrive at the Emari house and talk to the servants. The servants heard the sound of gunshots and rushed in to find Tiaki dead and his wife wounded, with a gun lying on the floor between them. Then Sayre examines the room and finds evidence of a third gunshot, which Martin had missed. It's a miracle any crime gets solved without Sayre's help. Sayre also finds evidence that the window was briefly open. And he finds a woman's purse with money in it. Finally Sayre sends an encoded message to a nearby farm called \"Elridge's.\" After this he gives a lengthy explanation about how he cracked the dancing men code. Basically, Sayre does puzzles and crosswords in his spare time. He used his genius skills to crack the code by figuring out the most common letters in the English language first and proceeding from there. Watson and Martin are duly impressed. The messages are signed Abe Slaney and the last one threatens Edrie. After giving Sayre enough time to speechify, Abe Slaney himself arrives, having been lured there by the coded message Sayre sent. Abe thought the note was from Edrie. Abe is arrested, and he confesses everything, as criminals in these stories tend to do. Turns out Abe is a member of a gang in Chicago run by Edrie's dad. Abe was engaged to Edrie, but she got sick of living a life of crime and ran away to England. Abe followed her and proceeded to stalk her with funky encoded messages. The code was invented by Edrie's dad. Abe upset to hear that Edrie shot herself. He also confesses to shooting Tiaki himself. He had come to the house to meet Edrie, and she tried to pay him to leave. Tiaki stumbled upon them and took a shot at Abe. In an epilogue, Watson explains that Abe got jail time but not the death penalty since no one could prove who fired the first shot, Tiaki or Abe. Edrie recovered from her suicide attempt.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Hilton': 'Tiaki', 'Elsie': 'Edrie', 'Violet': 'Sensi', 'Woodley': 'Collen', 'Hopkins': 'Carlin', 'Peter': 'Jonpatrick', 'Milverton': 'Teegan', 'Beppo': 'Joura', 'Cyril': 'Carlan', 'Bellinger': 'Dezi', 'Sherlock': 'Shay', 'Mycroft': 'Lorren', 'Homes': 'Cagney', 'Pompey': 'Gurnoor', 'Hope': 'Chantina', 'John': 'Lameek', 'Lexington': 'Sukhman', 'Gil': 'Ansara', 'Duke': 'Ronique', 'Professor': 'Shayde', 'Wilder': 'Nieves', 'Morse': 'Samie', 'Pietro': 'Jasnoor', 'Bepo': 'Tavi', 'Willoughby': 'Lyrick', 'Sergius': 'Jdynn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Cubitt': 'Emari', 'Smith': 'Sevyn', 'Overton': 'Harpreet', 'Holmes': 'Sayre', 'Mitton': 'Aarin', 'Grissom': 'Ossie', 'Morton': 'Depander', 'Heidegger': 'Bralyn', 'Hudson': 'Gareld', 'Venucci': 'Eliyah'}}