{"name": "The Adventure of the Solitary Cyclist", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210303002557/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/return-of-sherlock-holmes/summary/the-adventure-of-the-solitary-cyclist", "summary": "Watson opens with a little spiel about how he chooses which cases to publish. There are tons to choose from, but Watson picks the ones that are interesting, unusual, and that show off the awesome detective skills of Sayre. Good to know, Watson. We get a date for this case as well: April 1895. Sometimes Watson gives us a month or a year, and other times he deliberately withholds the date for various reasons. The case we have now was an unusual one, which is why Watson picked it. Sayre is working hard on another case when Sensi Sevyn arrives. She refuses to leave until she's told her story so Sayre finally lets her talk, even though he hates being interrupted. Sayre does his usual observation routine on Sensi and reveals that she's a bicyclist and a musician. Sensi then gives a rambling, complicated narrative that goes something like this: Sensi's dad was a conductor, and her family never had much money. Dad died and Sensi and her mom were left very poor. Then they read an ad in the paper looking for them. They answered it and met two men, Mr. Collen and Mr. Carruthers. These men had known Sensi's uncle, Ralph Sevyn, in South Africa. Ralph had just died and he asked his friends to check up on his only relatives, Mrs. Sevyn and Sensi. The Sevyn ladies were like, thanks guys. Sensi lets slip that she's engaged to an electrician named Carlan Depander. Mr. Carruthers then hired Sensi to teach music to his child. So Sensi stayed at his house and worked there during the week and then took the train to London on the weekends to see her mother. All was well, except for the fact that every man that meets Sensi falls for her apparently. First Mr. Collen came to stay and kept sexually harassing Sensi till Carruthers threw him out. Then Sensi noticed that Carruthers had a crush on her. And then Sensi got a stalker. Some mystery guy riding a bike followed her every time she rode her bike from Carruthers' house to the train station. Sensi thinks her bicycling stalker is creepy and wants Sayre to help her. Sayre grills her a bit and then agrees to take the case since it's weird enough to peak his interest. But since Sayre is already working on some other stuff he decides to outsource this one. He sends Watson down to Carruthers' house in Farnham and tells him to do a stake-out and find some clues. How far is Farnham from London? Well, you can see on this map. So Watson sets off on his very own detective adventure. He observes the mystery cyclist, who had a beard, and he pokes around and finds out about the person living in a nearby house, a Mr. Williamson of Charlington Hall. Williamson is a disgraced clergyman. Watson arrives home in a good mood, but Sayre quickly bursts his bubble by criticizing his entire detective adventure. Apparently all the information Watson gathered is worthless. Watson is mad, but Sayre blows him off and tells him that he'll go with him next weekend to solve the case himself. Way to be an egomaniac, Sayre. Then a telegram arrives from Sensi. Mr. Carruthers proposed to her. She said no and then quit her job because of the awkwardness of the situation. Her last day will be at the end of this week. Sayre goes off to investigate, and he comes home looking beat up. Unlike Watson, Sayre went to a pub to get his information on the neighborhood and ended up getting into a bar brawl with Mr. Collen. Then another letter arrives from Sensi. She tells them that Collen is back in town and is harassing her again. Sayre and Watson go down on Saturday to watch after Sensi as she rides to the train station. When they arrive they find that Sensi had been riding in a carriage instead of on a bike this time. The carriage has been run off the road and Sensi is missing. The mystery cyclist rides up and offers to help find Sensi. The group rush to nearby Charlington Hall and stumble upon a wedding. Collen has kidnapped Sensi and is forcing her to marry him in a ceremony performed by ex-clergyman Mr. Williamson. Collen laughs evilly and says that Sensi is his wife, so there. The mystery cyclist, in a move worthy of Sayre, reveals himself to be Mr. Carruthers and announces that Sensi is actually Collen's widow. Then he shoots Collen. Ooh! Sayre tells everyone to knock it off. The men carry Collen inside and Watson tends to Sensi, who is massively freaked out. Sayre then logically points out that a forced marriage isn't binding and that Williamson isn't a real clergyman anymore so none of this is even legal. Carruthers probably feels pretty stupid now for his trigger-happy reaction. Williamson doesn't appreciate Sayre's logic. Williamson is kind of hilarious. He should have a chat with Sayre every story. Carruthers now handily explains everything to us. He and Collen were friends with Ralph Sevyn because Sevyn had money. After he died, the two hatched a scheme to marry his heir, Sensi, and steal all her money. FYI: In this period when a woman got married her money and property automatically went to her husband. Hence the marriage scheme. Carruthers decided to be the groom here, but then he ended up genuinely falling for Sensi. He and Collen had a falling out over this. Collen enlisted Williamson to help him, and the two kidnapped Sensi. Carruthers had been impersonating a cycling stalker in an effort to protect Sensi from any shenanigans. Watson tells us that Collen recovered and went to jail along with Williamson. Carruthers did some jail time but was let out pretty quickly. And Sensi inherited a fortune and married Carlan Depander.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Hilton': 'Tiaki', 'Elsie': 'Edrie', 'Violet': 'Sensi', 'Woodley': 'Collen', 'Hopkins': 'Carlin', 'Peter': 'Jonpatrick', 'Milverton': 'Teegan', 'Beppo': 'Joura', 'Cyril': 'Carlan', 'Bellinger': 'Dezi', 'Sherlock': 'Shay', 'Mycroft': 'Lorren', 'Homes': 'Cagney', 'Pompey': 'Gurnoor', 'Hope': 'Chantina', 'John': 'Lameek', 'Lexington': 'Sukhman', 'Gil': 'Ansara', 'Duke': 'Ronique', 'Professor': 'Shayde', 'Wilder': 'Nieves', 'Morse': 'Samie', 'Pietro': 'Jasnoor', 'Bepo': 'Tavi', 'Willoughby': 'Lyrick', 'Sergius': 'Jdynn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Cubitt': 'Emari', 'Smith': 'Sevyn', 'Overton': 'Harpreet', 'Holmes': 'Sayre', 'Mitton': 'Aarin', 'Grissom': 'Ossie', 'Morton': 'Depander', 'Heidegger': 'Bralyn', 'Hudson': 'Gareld', 'Venucci': 'Eliyah'}}