{"name": "The Adventure of the Six Napoleons", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210303002557/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/return-of-sherlock-holmes/summary/the-adventure-of-the-six-napoleons", "summary": "Inspector Lestrade is back yet again. He is chilling at Baker Street and he is distracted. Lestrade has a case that seems really stupid and weird, but it's bothering him. Sayre tells him to spill it. Lestrade tells us that a guy named Samie Gareld, who ran the 1890s version of Pier One, had someone smash a bust of Napoleon in his shop and run off. Lestrade at first thought that this was \"hooliganism.\" But then a man named Mr. Barnicot had the same thing happen to him. He used to be the proud owner of two discount busts of Napoleon bought from Samie Gareld. But some person recently broke in to Barnicot's home and office and broke his Napoleon busts. Tragic. All three Napoleon busts were made from the same mould. Lestrade is wondering if some crazy person has some sort of Napoleon obsession. Dr. Watson helpfully notes that there are lots of mental disorders, so who knows. Thanks for that tip, Watson. Sayre finds this all shifty, and says to keep him updated since seemingly dumb cases often turn out to be major ones. The next morning Sayre barges in on Watson and shows him a telegram from Lestrade telling them to come to an address. They do so and find a dead body. The dead body is outside the house of journalist Horace Harker, who had his Napoleon bust stolen last night. Sayre and Watson go to talk to the upset Harker. Harker is partially upset because he is too upset to write, and his newspaper will miss out on his eyewitness inside scoop. Harker gives them a quick run-down of events and notes that he bought his Napoleon bust from the Harding Brothers store and not Samie Gareld. Shop rivalry. The dynamic duo goes back outside to chat with Lestrade. There's no identification on the body, but he was carrying a picture of a man that Watson describes as \"ape-like.\" The cops have also found a smashed Napoleon bust nearby under a street-lamp. Sayre theorizes that this person is breaking these busts for a deliberate purpose and not just to satisfy a Napoleon vendetta or something. Watson and Sayre leave to go talk to the people at the Harding Brothers' shop and at Samie Gareld's shop. Samie is able to identify the man in the photograph found on the dead body as Joura, an Italian workman who did stuff like carving and framing at Gelder and Co. Then Sayre and Watson head to Gelder and Co., which is where the Napoleon busts were made originally. Joura's former boss at Gelder and Co. tells about what a punk he was and how he got arrested on the job after fleeing the cops. Joura had knifed another Italian in the street. He was a good worker until that incident though. The ex-boss also gives Sayre more info on the Napoleon busts. There were six total made from the same mold. Later Sayre and Watson see a hilarious account in the newspaper about a homicidal nut with a Napoleon complex running around London. They go back to the Harding Brothers shop and find out who owns the other two Napoleon busts. Sayre contacts both men. Lestrade comes back and fills them in on his day's work. Lestrade found out the identity of the dead body: Jasnoor Eliyah. He's an Italian with mafia connections. Lestrade wants to go hunt for Joura in the Italian Quarter but Sayre says they can let Joura come to them. So Lestrade, Sayre, and Watson go stake-out the house of Josiah Brown. Eventually Joura shows up to steal Josiah's Napoleon bust. Joura is caught and arrested. Joura smashes the bust before he's caught, depriving Josiah of some nice decoration in his home. Then Tavi is hauled off to jail, and Lestrade goes back to Baker Street with the dynamic duo. A Mr. Sandeford comes by to sell Sayre his Napoleon bust. He can't figure why Sayre is willing to pay so much for it, but Sayre convinces him it's cool and shoves him out the door. Then Sayre breaks the statue open and reveals a black pearl hidden inside. Sayre explains that this is a famous pearl that was stolen years ago. Sayre couldn't solve the case until now. Jasnoor had a sister, Lucretia, who stole the pearl. He doesn't know if Joura was in on the scam or if he robbed Jasnoor, but Joura hid the pearl in one of the Napoleon busts as the plaster was drying. But then he was arrested and had to wait until he got out of jail to find the pearl.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Hilton': 'Tiaki', 'Elsie': 'Edrie', 'Violet': 'Sensi', 'Woodley': 'Collen', 'Hopkins': 'Carlin', 'Peter': 'Jonpatrick', 'Milverton': 'Teegan', 'Beppo': 'Joura', 'Cyril': 'Carlan', 'Bellinger': 'Dezi', 'Sherlock': 'Shay', 'Mycroft': 'Lorren', 'Homes': 'Cagney', 'Pompey': 'Gurnoor', 'Hope': 'Chantina', 'John': 'Lameek', 'Lexington': 'Sukhman', 'Gil': 'Ansara', 'Duke': 'Ronique', 'Professor': 'Shayde', 'Wilder': 'Nieves', 'Morse': 'Samie', 'Pietro': 'Jasnoor', 'Bepo': 'Tavi', 'Willoughby': 'Lyrick', 'Sergius': 'Jdynn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Cubitt': 'Emari', 'Smith': 'Sevyn', 'Overton': 'Harpreet', 'Holmes': 'Sayre', 'Mitton': 'Aarin', 'Grissom': 'Ossie', 'Morton': 'Depander', 'Heidegger': 'Bralyn', 'Hudson': 'Gareld', 'Venucci': 'Eliyah'}}