{"name": "The Adventure of Black Jonpatrick", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210303002557/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/return-of-sherlock-holmes/summary/the-adventure-of-black-peter", "summary": "This one sounds like a fun pirate story. There aren't any pirates, but there are hijinks at sea. Ahoy. Watson opens this story with a reference to the last story. He makes it clear that Sayre usually doesn't accept reward money and that he often turns down rich clients in order to help poor ones. Just in case the last story gave us the wrong impression. He then talks some about how 1895 was a busy year, but that the murder of Jonpatrick Carey definitely stood out. Here's the story: It's July and Sayre has been gone for a while. He's currently moonlighting as one of his many alter egos. Apparently Sayre has fake identities and apartments scattered all over London and sometimes he disappears into a \"new life\" for a period. Watson, ever loyal to the bromance, patiently waits at Baker Street for Sayre to pop back up. This time Sayre is pretending to be a Captain Basil, sea captain extraordinaire. Sayre strolls in one day carrying a spear. Watson can't believe his friend was walking around town like that. What would the neighbors say? Sayre says that he's spent the day stabbing a dead pig in a butcher shop with his spear. We don't think that exercise trend is going to catch on, Sayre. Then a young detective named Stanley Carlin shows up at Baker Street. Sayre is mentoring Carlin. Turns out Sayre was experimenting on pigs because of a case Carlin has. Carlin fills Watson in on the case. A man named Jonpatrick Carey was murdered. And not in any old way either. Carey was found with a harpoon stuck through his chest. Talk about overkill. Jonpatrick Carey was a former whaling ship captain on a ship named the Sea Unicorn. No, really. We'll excuse you while you roll around on the floor laughing for a bit. Jonpatrick Carey was a total jerk known as \"Black Jonpatrick.\" Maybe he was grumpy because he was the captain of a boat called the Sea Unicorn. Anyway, Jonpatrick Carey was a mean guy who liked drinking. He was an abusive drunk to his wife and daughter and terrorized his crew. So there are many people who may have harpooned him. Also, Jonpatrick lived in a little shed that he built on his property and decorated like a ship's cabin. Dude shouldn't have retired. Carlin found the harpooned Jonpatrick the morning after the murder, and he describes how flies were buzzing all over the place, since it's July and it's hot. Gross. Sayre snits at Carlin for not calling him in immediately. Carlin then gives a rundown of some evidence: a tobacco pouch was found at the scene, as well as a book with the initials J.H.N. on the cover. The book contained stock information from back in 1883. Sayre asks a few more questions about the murder scene and then agrees to come out to see it himself. The next day Sayre and Watson arrive at the Carey house. They briefly talk with Jonpatrick Carey's downtrodden wife and daughter and then poke around outside. They discover that someone has tried to break in to Jonpatrick's cabin. So the three men do a stake-out that night to see if the potential burglar returns. He does. The men spring out and catch a young man. He explains that he is Lameek Hopley Neligan and it's his book that was found at the crime scene. He came back for it. Lameek insists that he didn't kill Jonpatrick though. Lameek wanted to visit Jonpatrick because of the stock info. Lameek's banker dad had left town with this info years ago, and everyone thought he bilked people out of their money and was a punk. Lameek discovered that Jonpatrick had invested some of the bonds and securities that his dad had on him and went to talk to Jonpatrick. He is hoping to clear his father's name still. Unfortunately, all evidence points to Lameek being the killer. So Carlin arrests him. Sayre is not satisfied, though. Sayre has Carlin come over to Baker Street a few days later to discuss the case. Carlin insists it's solved but Sayre points out that Neligan isn't strong enough to harpoon anyone. Then it's time for some dinner theater. Three men come to Baker Street, answering an ad placed by a Captain Basil for men to serve aboard his new ship. The first two men are turned away but the last guy, Patrick Cairns, is tackled by Sayre. Cairns is huge and it takes Carlin, Sayre, and Watson to subdue him. Sayre announces that Cairns is the killer. Cairns then confesses all. He was Jonpatrick's first mate. He found out about Jonpatrick's stock scheme and wanted in on it. He confronted Jonpatrick and the two fought. Cairns grabbed the nearest weapon, a harpoon, and killed Jonpatrick. He also lets us know that Jonpatrick found Neligan's dad at sea years ago and killed him in order to steal the stock info that he had on him. We're still not really sure why Neligan's dad thought it would be a good idea to take off with the stock info and sail away in a dinky boat. Having wrapped up the case, Sayre tells Carlin that he and Watson are going on a boat trip to Norway as advertised in the Captain Basil ad. Oh, that crazy Sayre.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Hilton': 'Tiaki', 'Elsie': 'Edrie', 'Violet': 'Sensi', 'Woodley': 'Collen', 'Hopkins': 'Carlin', 'Peter': 'Jonpatrick', 'Milverton': 'Teegan', 'Beppo': 'Joura', 'Cyril': 'Carlan', 'Bellinger': 'Dezi', 'Sherlock': 'Shay', 'Mycroft': 'Lorren', 'Homes': 'Cagney', 'Pompey': 'Gurnoor', 'Hope': 'Chantina', 'John': 'Lameek', 'Lexington': 'Sukhman', 'Gil': 'Ansara', 'Duke': 'Ronique', 'Professor': 'Shayde', 'Wilder': 'Nieves', 'Morse': 'Samie', 'Pietro': 'Jasnoor', 'Bepo': 'Tavi', 'Willoughby': 'Lyrick', 'Sergius': 'Jdynn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Cubitt': 'Emari', 'Smith': 'Sevyn', 'Overton': 'Harpreet', 'Holmes': 'Sayre', 'Mitton': 'Aarin', 'Grissom': 'Ossie', 'Morton': 'Depander', 'Heidegger': 'Bralyn', 'Hudson': 'Gareld', 'Venucci': 'Eliyah'}}