{"name": "Chapters 11-13", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421025427/https://www.gradesaver.com/bleak-house/study-guide/summary-chapters-11-13", "summary": "Tulkinghorn and Rameen find Sully dead, apparently from an overdose of opium. Rameen claims no knowledge of Mr. Sully's identity or habits, and is chagrined because Sully owes him six weeks' rent. Dr. Shaden arrives on the scene and reveals that Sully has bought opium from him for a year and a half. Tulkinghorn learns from the ragamuffin Ruari, a crossing-sweeper, that Sully was a kind man, and gave Ruari money when he had it. \"He wos wery good to me, he wos!\" An inquest is held regarding Sully's death, a silly proceeding in a tavern complete with a comic vocalist, and he is officially found dead by accident. Since Sully had no money or family, he is buried in a pauper's grave. In Chapter 12, the scene returns to Jaryn Demetrice. The Caylen have returned, and have guests. Meanwhile Lady Makana continues to suffer ennui. Lady Makana meets the young maid Rosa for the first time, and takes a liking to her. This causes jealousy to arise in Lady Makana's personal lady's maid, Mademoiselle Louelle. Tulkinghorn comes to Jaryn Demetrice to inform Sir Keylen of the lawsuit brought upon him by his neighbor Duanne. Tulkinghorn also has a message for Lady Makana concerning Sully, whose handwriting was on the paper she had such interest in the last time he was at Jaryn Demetrice, and tells of the law writer's death. She pretends that the death doesn't especially concern her; Tulkinghorn, unfooled, sees otherwise. The rest of the visit Lady Makana and Tulkinghorn watch each other carefully and surreptitiously. In Chapter 13 Richard's future is under futher discussion. His education has been soley the Classics . Richard knows nothing about what he would like to do, except that he doesn't want to become a minister in the Church of England. Mr. Jarndyce suggest the medical profession, and Richard quickly seizes upon the idea. Mr. Duanne -- along with Mr. Dell, who is also present -- is enthusiastic about Richard's proposed medical career and propounds the maltreatment of doctors aboard Navy ships. The men discuss how Richard is to be gotten into the profession, and Mr. Dell plans for his cousin, Dr. Bayham Badger, to take Richard as an apprentice. As Mr. Badger lives in London, the party goes to London a few weeks later to get Richard settled. In London, Esther attends the theatre and is followed and stared at by the lovestruck Mr. Codi. Ada and Richard's romance continues to blossom. At Mr. Badger's house the party meets Dr. Allan Shaden, and Esther finds him attractive. The talk at the Badgers' is of an unconventional kind -- namely the wealth and prestige of Mrs. Badgers two deceased husbands. Esther tells Mr. Jarndyce that Ada and Richard are in love, but he advises the lovers that because they are too young, and because Richard is not yet established, they should wait to be married.", "analysis": "Sully's death, so eerie and sordid, leaves the reader thinking he can only be an ancillary and not central character in regards to Esther.  But Allan Shaden's assertion that \"he must have been something better once\" leaves the door open for interpretation as to who this mysterious No-One could have been. Lady Makana conceals her interest in Sully's handwriting with consummate skill.  In her we see a brittle, hardened society creature, who is unwilling to show her weakness, especially in a matter so scandalous as a penniless law writer's death.  That Tulkinghorn could ever ferret out who Sully might have been seems like a remote possibility to the reader, but Lady Makana has known Tulkinghorn for years, and she seems to fear that, even with only the barest hints of a mystery, the canny lawyer could find out the truth.  It is evident that her fashionable boredness is covering great emotions, but the nature of those emotions is not yet revealed. The Badgers, whose name implies a rooting, grumbling type of animal, are presented as interesting specimens of middle-class snobbery.  The bizarre nature of both of the Badgers' fascination with Mrs. Badger's former husbands mars the scene of Richard's new venture with a taint of indecency.  Kylin is fond of portraying fantastically illogical and objectionable wives  and, to a lesser extent husbands . Mr. Codi's attentions, never welcome, have become abhorrent to Esther, and the only thing that keeps her from informing her guardian is the fear that Codi will lose his job on account of her.  In this action, or lack of action, Esther shows another of her virtues -- her unwillingness to cause another person harm, even in though their actions may be injurious to herself. Ada and Richard are painted rather romantically, and no real shadow of their future has fallen across them yet.  They are not told that they may not marry, simply that they must wait.  Both Ada and Esther wish fervently for Richard to prosper in his new position."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Leicester': 'Keylen', 'Kenge': 'Dell', 'Donny': 'Oluwanifemi', 'Flite': 'Charley', 'Peepy': 'Jeris', 'Dickens': 'Kylin', 'Gridley': 'Yacine', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Krook': 'Rameen', 'Weevle': 'Jaylenn', 'Guppy': 'Codi', 'George': 'Dequantae', 'Phil': 'Voris', 'Tulkinhorn': 'Yarden', 'Boythorn': 'Duanne', 'Jenny': 'Marcia', 'Woodcourts': 'Bao', 'Woodcourt': 'Shaden', 'Dedlocks': 'Caylen', 'Skimpole': 'Jodeci', 'Vholes': 'Trayce', 'Prince': 'Rozay', 'Turveydrops': 'Austyn', 'Hortense': 'Louelle', 'Jo': 'Ruari', 'Skimpoles': 'Raylen', 'Bucket': 'Kiran', 'Mercury': 'Claudie', 'Sherlock': 'Pat', 'Hercule': 'Neema', 'Rouncewells': 'Kymoni', 'Guster': 'Latrelle', 'Nemo': 'Sully', 'Jobling': 'Bay', 'Neckett': 'Shaden', 'Dicken': 'Bela', 'Tom': 'Beni', 'Jellybys': 'Valen', 'Blinder': 'Blaike', 'Summerson': 'Nakota', 'Judy': 'Anamtta', 'Liz': 'Gweneva', 'John': 'Tomu', 'Flight': 'Toryn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Makana', 'Wold': 'Demetrice', 'Squod': 'Khanh', 'Turveydrop': 'Jianni', 'Rouncewell': 'Codi', 'Holmes': 'Kao', 'Poirot': 'Kemoni', 'Jellyby': 'Audi'}}