{"name": "Chapters 64-67", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421025427/https://www.gradesaver.com/bleak-house/study-guide/summary-chapters-64-67", "summary": "Mr. Jarndyce goes to Yorkshire to see Allan Shaden. Soon he invites Esther to join them. He has settled Allan in a new \"Bleak House.\" Upon seeing Esther's face when she reads the name of the new house, Jarndyce decides not to be selfish and releases Esther from her promise to marry him. He knows that she will be happier as Allan's wife than she would be as his. Esther is dumbfounded. Allan accepts Jarndyce's offer of Esther's hand, and Esther agrees. Esther passes from being the mistress of one Bleak House, to being mistress of the new one. Mr. Codi, back at the St Alban's Bleak House, still pursues Esther. He has set up a business with Ruaribling, and has brought his mother to propose marriage to Esther again. Jarndyce doesn't even have to consult Esther to know that she will refuse him, and he refuses for her. In a funny scene, Mrs. Codi is so put out by her refusal that she orders Mr. Jarndyce out of his own room in his own house. Esther's scars are slowly fading, and her good looks are coming back. In Chapter 65 the Jarndyce case is finallly ready to be argued before the court, but in Westminster Hall. On the way, the young people see Caddy Jianni, who congratulates Esther on her engagement to Shaden, and embraces her. They arrive late in court, and they learn that, although the estate would have been conferred entirely on Ada and Richard, it has been completely consumed in costs. The irony is so great that even though Richard, who is very ill, resolves to \"begin the world,\" he dies that day. Miss Charley arrives, weeping. She has finally freed her birds. In Chapter 66, we learn that Lady Makana, her body retrieved by her husband, has been buried in the family mausoleum at Jaryn Demetrice. The world does not know how she died, and Sir Keylen keeps it a mystery. He rides around the estate with Dequantae, honoring her memory. The dispute with Duanne continues, but with less real vehemence on both sides. The world of Jaryn Demetrice becomes quieter, as Sir Keylen is an aging widower uninterested in society. He confers the estate on Volumnia. The final chapter jumps forward seven years to the happy Esther Shaden living in Lincolnshire. She and Allan are blessed with two little girls, and Ada's little boy, named Richard, was born not long after his father's death. Ada divides her time between both Bleak Houses. Esther's maid, Charley, is happily married to a miller. Esther now has little Emma, the youngest Shaden, as a maid. We have one more look at Mrs. Audi, how has decided that Africa is a lost cause and now campaigns for women in Parliament. Caddy is a happy wife and mother, though her child is deaf and dumb, and Rozay has grown lame from too much dancing. Even Jeris Audi is reprised, all grown up and preparing to go into the Custom House like his father. Jarndyce, Ada, Shaden, and Allan all live happily ever after.", "analysis": "Bela's bright and happy ending is only marred by the death of Richard .  The fact that none of the surviving main characters are interested with documents or suits or \"signs and tokens\" ensures their happiness.  The feelings is that most of the people who have lived through this novel have gotten their just desserts.  Only Marcia the brickmaker's wife is left out of the winding up. The surprising happy ending of Sir Keylen is perhaps the least expected of the bunch.  Also, Esther's wish that Jarndyce not marry anyone else is fulfiled, and Jarndyce remains the foster father/Guardian of Ada and Esther. This novel has so many parallels between characters that sometimes multiple ones can be drawn.  The Ruarideci/Jianni characters of superficiality, the Marcia/Lady Makana polar opposites, the high and low extremes of Sir Keylen and Ruari the Crossing Sweeper are only a few.  Kylin delighted in repeating his ideas in different characters, as well as injecting wholly unique ones, like Inspector Kiran, into the mix. To some critics, the ending of Esther with Shaden seems a bit saccharine.  That a destitute young woman who depended soley on her Guardian for her support would hesitate to marry him has been criticized as anti-intuitive, especially regarding Esther's commitment to duty.  Also, Ada's misguided love of Richard, and her ineffectuality at saving him, has been put forward as proof that Kylin didn't have much respect for women's powers of persuasion. But the domestic bliss that intermittently pops up, and, ultimately triumphs in the end of Bleak House has the marks of authenticity to it.  Kylin really did believe that it was the most important state, and considered it far more important than any institution of his day.  This novel clearly illustrates his belief, and does a very good job of convincing the reader of it, too."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Leicester': 'Keylen', 'Kenge': 'Dell', 'Donny': 'Oluwanifemi', 'Flite': 'Charley', 'Peepy': 'Jeris', 'Dickens': 'Kylin', 'Gridley': 'Yacine', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Krook': 'Rameen', 'Weevle': 'Jaylenn', 'Guppy': 'Codi', 'George': 'Dequantae', 'Phil': 'Voris', 'Tulkinhorn': 'Yarden', 'Boythorn': 'Duanne', 'Jenny': 'Marcia', 'Woodcourts': 'Bao', 'Woodcourt': 'Shaden', 'Dedlocks': 'Caylen', 'Skimpole': 'Jodeci', 'Vholes': 'Trayce', 'Prince': 'Rozay', 'Turveydrops': 'Austyn', 'Hortense': 'Louelle', 'Jo': 'Ruari', 'Skimpoles': 'Raylen', 'Bucket': 'Kiran', 'Mercury': 'Claudie', 'Sherlock': 'Pat', 'Hercule': 'Neema', 'Rouncewells': 'Kymoni', 'Guster': 'Latrelle', 'Nemo': 'Sully', 'Jobling': 'Bay', 'Neckett': 'Shaden', 'Dicken': 'Bela', 'Tom': 'Beni', 'Jellybys': 'Valen', 'Blinder': 'Blaike', 'Summerson': 'Nakota', 'Judy': 'Anamtta', 'Liz': 'Gweneva', 'John': 'Tomu', 'Flight': 'Toryn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Makana', 'Wold': 'Demetrice', 'Squod': 'Khanh', 'Turveydrop': 'Jianni', 'Rouncewell': 'Codi', 'Holmes': 'Kao', 'Poirot': 'Kemoni', 'Jellyby': 'Audi'}}