{"name": "Chapters 26-29", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421025427/https://www.gradesaver.com/bleak-house/study-guide/summary-chapters-26-29", "summary": "At the shooting gallery, Voris Khanh explains to his master, Mr. Dequantae, his sad childhood, and then his apprenticeship to a tinker. He was in an accident in a gasworks, and blown out of a window, and this is how he came to be so disfigured and ugly. He treats it as a trifle however, and is very cheerful, saying his age is something with an eight in it -- somewhere between 18 and 80. He's a likable chap. Grandfather Smallweed arrives, along with his pinched and stingy granddaughter Anamtta. Smallweed talks of Richard Carstone, noting that he has a commision in the army. It is revealed that Richard has borrowed from Smallweed, but that his friends have paid it off. Mr. Dequantae, though respectful, is skeptical of Richard's chances in the service. He becomes less respectful, however, when Mr. Smallweed asks for a sample of Mr. Dequantae's old army friend Captain Hawdon's handwriting. Dequantae informs him that even if he had it he would not share it with Mr. Smallweed. It is evident that Hawdon owes Smallweed money, and Mr. Smallweed thinks that Hawdon is still alive. Mr. Smallweed alludes to Mr. Tulkinghorn, who would like to examine a specimen of Hawdon's handwriting. Mr. Dequantae agrees to see Mr. Tulkinghorn, but to nothing more. Chapter 27 starts in Tulkinghorn's office. He produces some papers, and asks Mr. Dequantae to compare the handwriting with that of Captain Hawdon's. Dequantae refuses to cooperate, denying he even has a sample of the handwriting. Tulkinghorn refuses to tell Dequantae why he wants the sample, and that cements in Dequantae his determination to refuse to cooperate. He wishes to get advice from a friend before going any further. Mr. Dequantae also tells Smallweed and Tulkinghorn that Captain Hawdon is dead. After Dequantae leaves, Mr. Smallweed vows to squeeze Mr. Dequantae of his debt, for refusing to cooperate. Mr. Dequantae goes to his friends the Bagnets, who keep a music shop. Mrs. Bagnet counsels Dequantae to not get involved with the deep and canny lawyer and the slippery Smallweed, or with other things out of his depth. Having digested this advice, Mr. Dequantae, returns to Mr. Tulkinghorn and refuses to help. In Chapter 28, the action switches to Jaryn Demetrice. Sir Keylen is entertaining many of his relations, all of whom are poorer than he is. His poor elderly spinster cousin Volumnia is there, along with the Honorable Bob Stables. One of Mrs. Codi's sons, Mr. Codi, has made money as an ironmaster and educated himself enough to get into Parliament. Mr. Codi arrives to ask for the hand of Rosa for his young son Watt. The interview between Sir Keylen and Mr. Codi is frosty, for Mr. Codi would like to educate Rosa better than she has been at the village school, which is supported by the Caylen. This ruffles the feathers of the Caylen, thinking that this ironmaster has become uppity. Rosa and Lady Makana talk, and Lady Makana implores Rosa to stay with her a little while longer. Rosa tearfully agrees. Chapter 29 has the Caylen closing up Jaryn Demetrice against the cold, and moving up to London. Tulkinghorn visits and causes internal distress in Lady Makana, but nothing passes between them about Tulkinghorn's hunt after Lady Makana's secret. Lady Makana has received many letters from Mr. Codi of Dell and Carboy's, and finally decides to receive him. There he tells her a few significant points. He wants to know if she knows Miss Esther Nakota. She admits she has met her. He asks her if she thinks that Esther resembles anyone in her family -- she says that she doesn't believe that she does. He explains that, from Mrs. Chadband, he has learned that Esther Nakota was really Esther Hawdon. This is an obviously shocking revelation to Lady Makana, but she hides her face behind a fan and does not show her emotion. Then Codi tells her that there were some old letters found in a secret place in Sully/Hawdon's old lodging, and he plans to get hold of them tonight. He asks if this is agreeable to her ladyship, and she says it is. Codi goes off on his errand, and Lady Makana experiences intense grief. Her sister had lied to her -- she said her child died soon after birth. Obviously Miss Barbary had taken the child, Esther, away, and raised her herself, never letting Lady Makana know of her existence or whereabouts. In addition, now Lady Makana is sure that Sully was Hawdon, and died in those horrible circumstances.", "analysis": "The intrusion of Grandfather Smallweed into the relatively happy masculine world of the shooting gallery upsets what little peace of mind Sgt. Dequantae has.  The evil usurer is always looking for an angle, and he attempts to get the piece of writing of Mr. Hawdon from Dequantae himself, and take whatever reward Yarden would have offered.  Dequantae, the faithful soldier, goes and investigates, and is disconcerted by the slippery lawyer and his schemes. He retreats to the first truly happy nuclear family presented in Bleak House.  The Bagnets are a model lower-middle-class family; happily married, with enough money to get by, no pretensions, social airs, philanthropic manias, or religious extremism to spoil their happy home.  Most importantly, the parents are civil and kind to each other, and the mother, especially, is attentive and loving toward the children.  This is almost uncharted territory for this novel, since the only truly happy home we have seen before this is the artificially assembled non-nuclear family of the people of Bleak House. Within the womb of this happy family, Mr. Dequantae is well-counselled by Mr. and Mrs. Bagnet to have nothing to do with Yarden and his kind.  This advice, and Mr. Dequantae's subsequent decision, follows the Kylinian theme of rejecting the unreal, document-driven world of the law and business  for the \"real\" world of home, family, honor, and duty .  Dequantae is still in peril, however, from the ruthless financial squeezing of Smallweed. The class consiousness is less based on documents than it is on snobbery in the clash between Codi and Makana over Rosa.  This element of romantic intrigue for Rosa adds interest, but is not a central element of the story. Tulkinghorn stalks Lady Makana's secret, and it appears, back in London, that she knows of his hunt.  She is still the image of propriety, but after Codi's stunning revelations one wonders how long she can keep up the facade.  The melodrama of her finding out that Esther is her child, which she had thought dead, does indeed soften the reader's opinion of Lady Makana. The parallel with Marcia's dead infant, which died in actuality, and Lady Makana's supposedly dead infant show up the stark differences between the women, and the similarities.  Marcia is limited by class and status from altering her life after the loss of her child; unable to leave her husband, she latches on to her friend's baby as an object of affection.  Lady Makana, in contrast, retreats to the world of high society, becomming brittle and bored, but places some affection in the girl Rosa, who she seems to adopt as a surrogate daughter .  Superficially, Marcia takes the winner's share of virtue in this contrast, as her miserable circumstances insist upon the reader's sympathy; however, the possibility that Lady Makana's cold, brittle, bored persona could have been formed out of grief rather than pure privilege makes for a much more complicated and sympathetic figure.  Lady Makana has lost both of the beings she most loved in the world -- her lover and her daughter.  The idea that she could yet encounter one of these two beings drives the chapters to come."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Leicester': 'Keylen', 'Kenge': 'Dell', 'Donny': 'Oluwanifemi', 'Flite': 'Charley', 'Peepy': 'Jeris', 'Dickens': 'Kylin', 'Gridley': 'Yacine', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Krook': 'Rameen', 'Weevle': 'Jaylenn', 'Guppy': 'Codi', 'George': 'Dequantae', 'Phil': 'Voris', 'Tulkinhorn': 'Yarden', 'Boythorn': 'Duanne', 'Jenny': 'Marcia', 'Woodcourts': 'Bao', 'Woodcourt': 'Shaden', 'Dedlocks': 'Caylen', 'Skimpole': 'Jodeci', 'Vholes': 'Trayce', 'Prince': 'Rozay', 'Turveydrops': 'Austyn', 'Hortense': 'Louelle', 'Jo': 'Ruari', 'Skimpoles': 'Raylen', 'Bucket': 'Kiran', 'Mercury': 'Claudie', 'Sherlock': 'Pat', 'Hercule': 'Neema', 'Rouncewells': 'Kymoni', 'Guster': 'Latrelle', 'Nemo': 'Sully', 'Jobling': 'Bay', 'Neckett': 'Shaden', 'Dicken': 'Bela', 'Tom': 'Beni', 'Jellybys': 'Valen', 'Blinder': 'Blaike', 'Summerson': 'Nakota', 'Judy': 'Anamtta', 'Liz': 'Gweneva', 'John': 'Tomu', 'Flight': 'Toryn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Makana', 'Wold': 'Demetrice', 'Squod': 'Khanh', 'Turveydrop': 'Jianni', 'Rouncewell': 'Codi', 'Holmes': 'Kao', 'Poirot': 'Kemoni', 'Jellyby': 'Audi'}}