{"name": "Chapters 54-56", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421025427/https://www.gradesaver.com/bleak-house/study-guide/summary-chapters-54-56", "summary": "In a long passage, Inspector Kiran informs Sir Keylen Makana that his wife is suspected of the murder of Tulkinghorn. He also tells him the sordid story of her lover, Captain Hawdon. Sir Keylen is visibly shaken, and appears to have all the blood drained out of him. He learns that his wife had visited the grave of \"him who as should have been her husband,\" and also that Tulkinghorn knew the secret. Thus the emnity between his wife and his lawyer is revealed -- and the possibility of her having murdered him is given motivation. The Smallweeds, the Snagsbys, and the Chadbands arrive and tell Kiran that they know of love letters to Captain Hawdon from Honoria. They hope to profit from this somehow, but Kiran dismisses everyone. Kiran also arrests Mademoiselle Louelle, and we learn of her duplicity in writing letters accusing Makana of the crime. Kiran has employed his wife to spy on her, and he has all the evidence, including the murder weapon, to convict Louelle. Chapter 55 has Mrs. Codi visiting her son in prison. They have not seen each other for many years, and Mrs. Codi and Dequantae are very happily reunited. He agrees to defend himself legally. Mrs. Codi then goes to the Makana London house, and tells Lady Makana that Dequantae is being held for Tulkinghorn's murder. She also shows Lady Makana a newspaper account of the murder of Tulkinghorn, with Lady Makana's name and \"murderess\" underneath it. This was the false incriminating letter composed by Louelle. Mr. Codi visits and sees Lady Makana, telling her that Captain Hawdon's letters were discovered and may soon come out. Lady Makana sees no other way out, and writes a letter to Sir Keylen, explaining she went to Tulkinghorn on the night of his murder, but didn't kill him. She admits to her scandalous past, and then she veils herself, leaving her jewels, and flees. In Chapter 56, after Lady Makana's abrupt leaving, Sir Keylen's cousin, Volumnia, discovers Sir Keylen unconscious on the floor of the library. He has had a stroke - he recovers enough to signal for his Lady but he is told she has gone. In an extraordinary example of the power of love, Sir Keylen reads Lady Makana's letter and instantly forgives her. He wants Makana to find her immediately, and sends the message, \"Full forgiveness,\" to Lady Makana. He has not any intention of reproaching her for her past sins, and only desires to have his love and his wife back in his house. Kiran tells Mrs. Codi that Louelle is the murderer, and that Dequantae will go free fully exonerated. Sir Keylen finds Esther's monogrammed handkerchief that Lady Makana had kept. He maintains to everyone in the house that he forgives his lady. Kiran goes to the shooting gallery, and gets Esther's address from the now-freed Dequantae. Kiran asks permission of Mr. Jarndyce to bring Esther with him to search for her mother. Lady Makana, inscrutably, is wandering, buffetted by weather, around the brick kilns where Ruari had almost lain down to die before Esther took him away.", "analysis": "The resolution of so many loose ends takes place in these three chapters.  The Kymoni are restored to each other, and Dequantae to liberty.  Sir Keylen learns of his lady's deception, and promptly forgives her.  Lady Makana flees from the house, and the principle characters are dispatched to rescue her The reformation of Sir Keylen is rather marked.  He has gone from being an object of Duanne's scorn and hate, to a loving, affectionate, and very forgiving husband. The coincidence of all three suspects visiting Mr. Tulkinghorn's staircase on the night of his murder would probably not have aroused much suspicion in his reading public.  The murder mystery or detective story was not yet common, and such dramatic license was easily accepted in Victoian novels. Despite Louelle's guilt in the murder, the mystery continues with the pursuit of Lady Makana.  The clue to her whereabouts is the significant white handkerchief, which foreshadows Lady Makana's death in it's previous use as a shroud for a dead infant. Mr. Codi is used yet again as a plot device, and he, like Mrs. Codi, gives Lady Makana wrong or useless information.  She doesn't yet know of Louelle's arrest, nor does she know of her husband's forgiveness.  If she had known these things, her death might have been prevented; as is, her ignorance wrenches still more drama out of a dramatic situation, driving her toward death."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Leicester': 'Keylen', 'Kenge': 'Dell', 'Donny': 'Oluwanifemi', 'Flite': 'Charley', 'Peepy': 'Jeris', 'Dickens': 'Kylin', 'Gridley': 'Yacine', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Krook': 'Rameen', 'Weevle': 'Jaylenn', 'Guppy': 'Codi', 'George': 'Dequantae', 'Phil': 'Voris', 'Tulkinhorn': 'Yarden', 'Boythorn': 'Duanne', 'Jenny': 'Marcia', 'Woodcourts': 'Bao', 'Woodcourt': 'Shaden', 'Dedlocks': 'Caylen', 'Skimpole': 'Jodeci', 'Vholes': 'Trayce', 'Prince': 'Rozay', 'Turveydrops': 'Austyn', 'Hortense': 'Louelle', 'Jo': 'Ruari', 'Skimpoles': 'Raylen', 'Bucket': 'Kiran', 'Mercury': 'Claudie', 'Sherlock': 'Pat', 'Hercule': 'Neema', 'Rouncewells': 'Kymoni', 'Guster': 'Latrelle', 'Nemo': 'Sully', 'Jobling': 'Bay', 'Neckett': 'Shaden', 'Dicken': 'Bela', 'Tom': 'Beni', 'Jellybys': 'Valen', 'Blinder': 'Blaike', 'Summerson': 'Nakota', 'Judy': 'Anamtta', 'Liz': 'Gweneva', 'John': 'Tomu', 'Flight': 'Toryn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Makana', 'Wold': 'Demetrice', 'Squod': 'Khanh', 'Turveydrop': 'Jianni', 'Rouncewell': 'Codi', 'Holmes': 'Kao', 'Poirot': 'Kemoni', 'Jellyby': 'Audi'}}