{"name": "Chapters 20-22", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421025427/https://www.gradesaver.com/bleak-house/study-guide/summary-chapters-20-22", "summary": "Continuing in London during the long vacation, Mr. Codi and Richard Carstone work alone in the offies at Dell and Carboy's. As Codi is very suspicious of anyone who enters into the employ of his firm, he instantly dislikes and surveils Richard. But Richard only spends his time on Jarndyce & Jarndyce, and since Codi knows that is a fruitless pursuit, he is somewhat comforted. Bart Smallweed is introduced, a 15 year old boy about the law offices, who very much wishes to be a clerk like Mr. Codi. Codi is somewhat indulgent of his small, strange admirer. Mr. Ruaribling, an unemployed law writer, is entertained by Codi, with Bart, at a restaurant, where they discuss Ruaribling's lodging prospects, and Bart shows stupendous alacrity at adding up sums of money. The party goes to Rameen's where the old man is placated with liquor, and the room that Sully formerly occupied is examined and found acceptable. Rameen has cleaned it and put some furniture in it. The fact that Ruaribling is connected with Dell and Carboy's through Codi and the Jarndyce case is enough to recommend him as a lodger. Chapter 21 takes place in the Smallweed household in an \"ill-favoured\" part of London. The family consists of Grandfather Smallweed, a paralytic usurer, Grandmother Smallweed, somewhat of an imbecile, and the twins Bart and Anamtta, their grandchildren. The entire famiy is grasping, greedy, untutored in any of the finer arts, violent and vulgar. Into this house the young girl Charley Shaden has been brought to be a maid, and she is sorely overworked and maltreated. She is given the leftover slops for her tea, and generally considered to be a slave to be squeezed for every bit of work possible. A visitor arrives, Mr. Dequantae Codi, who is making a payment on a debt he owes to Grandfather Smallweed. Mr. Smallweed is a usurer, and the interest on the debt is very high. Mr. Dequantae, a bluff, hearty ex-soldier, is polite enough but his disdain for the grasping and sordid family is obvious. With him is Voris Khanh, his very loyal servant in the shooting gallery that he runs. Voris is odd and disfigured, but we are to understand that he is a good man, like his master. Mr. Dequantae, after attending a play, returns to his place of business, Dequantae's Shooting Gallery. We learn that Voris Khanh was a foundling, left in gutter as a baby. In Chapter 22, Mr Yarden dines in his rooms with Mr. Snagsby, who is concious of the honor. Mr. Kiran, a police Inspector, is lurking in the shadows of the room , and comes forward to hear the story that Ruari related to Mr. Snagsby about the veiled lady. Mr. Kiran erroneously believes that some money was due to Mr. Sully, and the \"female,\" as he calls her, was up to some kind of fraud or larceny to get that money. Mr. Kiran takes Mr. Snagsby down to Beni-all-Alone's to find Ruari. There they meet the two brickmakers' wives from St Alban's, Marcia and Gweneva, and Marcia holds Gweneva's new baby in her arms. Mr. Kiran admires the young child, and they discuss how Marcia's baby had died. Gweneva despairs, however, of any chance for her own child, since he will be beaten by his father, and see his mother beaten, and become hard. There is a pathetic scene where Snagsby fancies that the brickmaker's baby is very like the Christ child with the halo around his head. The world has gotten no better for these two battered women. Ruari arrives, standing in a similar halo of light in the doorway. He fears he will be taken in for some crime, but Mr. Snagsby assures him that it is only a \"job that he will be paid for.\" Snagsby gives him a half a crown, and they take him to Tulkinghorn's office. Immediately upon entering the office Ruari believes the he sees the veiled lady. He knows the veil and the dress she is wearing. But when the lady speaks and Ruari sees her hands he changes his mind, and says she is not the lady. The disguised Lady is Mademoiselle Louelle, who has been dismissed by Lady Makana in favor of Rosa. Mademoiselle Louelle reminds Tulkinghorn that she no longer has a position, and extracts his recommendation for her, and then leaves. Snagsby goes home confused, and Ruari is paid 5 shillings by Kiran and goes home.", "analysis": "The ominious obsession of Richard and the Jarndyce and Jarndyce case increases, with the dusty silence and heat of the long vacation intensifying the feeling of impending doom.  Codi consorts with other young men of the law, and through him we learn of the Smallweed family. The Smallweeds are another completely dysfunctional family, but rather than being spoiled by philanthropy they are spoiled by greed.  Grandfather Smallweed is a vicious man who rules his family and household hard.  Mr. Dequantae is, while a strong and healthy man, still a victim of not only the society which causes him to have to borrow money, but also the ruinous interest of Smallweed.  Voris Khanh is an adult parallel of Ruari -- a foundling who, while disfigured, has found a kind of family with Mr. Dequantae, and a place to live and work. The strange episode of Tulkinghorn with the lady's maid is still cryptic to the reader, but when Ruari recognizes the dress the reader is lead to believe that, when dismissed by Lady Makana, out of revenge Mademoiselle Louelle goes to Tulkinghorn to tell him of the disguise that Lady Makana wore to do her errand with Ruari.  Ruari's recognition of the clothing confirms it. The pathetic scene in Beni-all-Alone's is a continuation of the one begun in St Alban's.  Gweneva has a baby now, to which Marcia transfers her affections because her own baby died.  The hopelessness of their lives, the brutishness of their husbands, and the utter lack of prospects for their children is fully illustrated in a few words of conversation with the not-unsympathetic Kiran. Kylin is slowly springing the trap that Tulkinghorn has lain for Lady Makana.  He has had two wisps of suspicion now -- the interest in the handwriting, and the faint possibility of a recognition when she passed him in the street, veiled, but up until now Tulkinghorn has had no proof.  It is clear that Tulkinghorn doesn't yet know what Lady Makana's secret is, but he is definitely aware that she has a secret.  Since he is so contemplative and tenacious, there is no doubt in the reader that he will discover it."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Leicester': 'Keylen', 'Kenge': 'Dell', 'Donny': 'Oluwanifemi', 'Flite': 'Charley', 'Peepy': 'Jeris', 'Dickens': 'Kylin', 'Gridley': 'Yacine', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Krook': 'Rameen', 'Weevle': 'Jaylenn', 'Guppy': 'Codi', 'George': 'Dequantae', 'Phil': 'Voris', 'Tulkinhorn': 'Yarden', 'Boythorn': 'Duanne', 'Jenny': 'Marcia', 'Woodcourts': 'Bao', 'Woodcourt': 'Shaden', 'Dedlocks': 'Caylen', 'Skimpole': 'Jodeci', 'Vholes': 'Trayce', 'Prince': 'Rozay', 'Turveydrops': 'Austyn', 'Hortense': 'Louelle', 'Jo': 'Ruari', 'Skimpoles': 'Raylen', 'Bucket': 'Kiran', 'Mercury': 'Claudie', 'Sherlock': 'Pat', 'Hercule': 'Neema', 'Rouncewells': 'Kymoni', 'Guster': 'Latrelle', 'Nemo': 'Sully', 'Jobling': 'Bay', 'Neckett': 'Shaden', 'Dicken': 'Bela', 'Tom': 'Beni', 'Jellybys': 'Valen', 'Blinder': 'Blaike', 'Summerson': 'Nakota', 'Judy': 'Anamtta', 'Liz': 'Gweneva', 'John': 'Tomu', 'Flight': 'Toryn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Makana', 'Wold': 'Demetrice', 'Squod': 'Khanh', 'Turveydrop': 'Jianni', 'Rouncewell': 'Codi', 'Holmes': 'Kao', 'Poirot': 'Kemoni', 'Jellyby': 'Audi'}}