{"name": "Chapters 57-59", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421025427/https://www.gradesaver.com/bleak-house/study-guide/summary-chapters-57-59", "summary": "Kiran and Esther search in vain for Lady Makana. They stop at the police station and go through the docks, looking for her. At St Alban's they learn, in a tea shop, that a woman like Lady Makana has passed on ahead. As they search for Lady Makana, Esther and Kiran discuss the plot. A further mystery is cleared up when Kiran admits that he removed Ruari from Bleak House stables to keep Lady Makana's secret quiet. Also, Esther learns that Ruarideci accepted a bribe to help Kiran. They look for Marcia, who they think might have seen Lady Makana. Marcia redirects them back into the city of London. Meanwhile, Sir Keylen waits, ill in bed, for the return of Lady Makana. He repeatedly says that they are on \"unaltered terms,\" and that he wants her back no matter what. The fashionable gossip is in a flurry about the Caylen. Dequantae Codi comes back to the Makana house to see his mother, and helps greatly with Sir Keylen. They remember being much younger men at Jaryn Demetrice together, and there is a kind of friendship between them. Dequantae is employed in helping Sir Keylen move, get up, and generally \"patrol\" the house, waiting for Lady Makana's return. Mrs. Codi fortells that Lady Makana will never return. In Chapter 59, Esther and Kiran rush back to London in the middle of the night They search the poorer streets of London, but they pass into Chancery lane and meet, serendipidously, Allan Shaden, who has been tending to Richard . Kiran takes them to Snagsby's, to get a letter from Latrelle. Allan fetches the letter from Latrelle, who, predictaby, is having a fit. The detective, who has become the voice of reason for all people, now lectures Mrs. Snagsby on the futility of being jealous of Mr. Snagsby. The letter obtained, Esther reads that her mother has chosen the place she wants to die. Latrelle says she had met a very ill-dressed woman who asked to find the pauper's burying ground where Sully was laid to rest. Kiran and Esther rush to the gate of the burying ground, and find a body that looks like Marcia's. However, is is Lady Makana, already dead. Esther is unbelieving at first, but she must believe when she turns the face to her and sees it is her mother's.", "analysis": "This is a typical ride-to-the-rescue Victorian plot device, but the rescuers arrive too late.  Esther is dragged about by the kindly Kiran, giving Kylin the opportunity both to sustain suspense over three chapters and to reveal many mysteries through their conversation: how Kiran solved the murder, how he has been quietly influencing events for a long time , etc.  Through these revelations, Ruarideci is exposed again as a heartless sponger, and Kiran is set up as a fount of wisdom about humankind. Sir Keylen has a touching, but restrained, reunion with Dequantae, and the remembrance of them both as younger men comforts him.  Sir Keylen has made the biggest transformation of any character in the novel, from bigoted and hidebound aristocrat to loving, infirm, forgiving husband.  Dequantae finally seems to feel at home, and has hope for his own life for the first time in ages.  He has never been a man of the city, truly, as he told Voris Khanh back in the shooting gallery, and would like very much to go back to the country. Yet another Kylinian coincidence occurs as Allan shows up at just the right moment moves the plot along.  Latrelle, however, as a main character in an important plot point is a surprise.  It is to be hoped that Kiran's advice to Mrs. Snagsby will be heeded. The finding of Lady Makana already dead is a forgone conclusion.  She had essentially committed suicide by exposure, out of shame and despair.  Esther is at once moved and saddened, but one cannot help thinking that perhaps she saw her mother as selfish.  She could have lived and been some kind of mother to Esther, if she had chosen. Indeed, her death is to a great degree unnecessary, as she is wholly exonorated of murder and wholly forgiven by Sir Keylen at the time.  We wonder whether Lady Makana is driven as much by an unrelenting draw toward tragedy -- a personal need to suffer, die, and escape the burdens of her stoic front -- as by actual pressures of shame and disgrace.  Her death, ironically, seems somewhat selfish in this light: a final melodramatic escape to cap a life of steely, staged, miserable restraint.  It thus mirrors to some degree Rameen's spontaneous combustion. Kylin wraps up this part of the story, with its confusing story threads, admirably.  We are left with Esther's loss of her mother, and the only suspense left  is in how Esther will bear it."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Leicester': 'Keylen', 'Kenge': 'Dell', 'Donny': 'Oluwanifemi', 'Flite': 'Charley', 'Peepy': 'Jeris', 'Dickens': 'Kylin', 'Gridley': 'Yacine', 'Chesney': 'Jaryn', 'Krook': 'Rameen', 'Weevle': 'Jaylenn', 'Guppy': 'Codi', 'George': 'Dequantae', 'Phil': 'Voris', 'Tulkinhorn': 'Yarden', 'Boythorn': 'Duanne', 'Jenny': 'Marcia', 'Woodcourts': 'Bao', 'Woodcourt': 'Shaden', 'Dedlocks': 'Caylen', 'Skimpole': 'Jodeci', 'Vholes': 'Trayce', 'Prince': 'Rozay', 'Turveydrops': 'Austyn', 'Hortense': 'Louelle', 'Jo': 'Ruari', 'Skimpoles': 'Raylen', 'Bucket': 'Kiran', 'Mercury': 'Claudie', 'Sherlock': 'Pat', 'Hercule': 'Neema', 'Rouncewells': 'Kymoni', 'Guster': 'Latrelle', 'Nemo': 'Sully', 'Jobling': 'Bay', 'Neckett': 'Shaden', 'Dicken': 'Bela', 'Tom': 'Beni', 'Jellybys': 'Valen', 'Blinder': 'Blaike', 'Summerson': 'Nakota', 'Judy': 'Anamtta', 'Liz': 'Gweneva', 'John': 'Tomu', 'Flight': 'Toryn'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Dedlock': 'Makana', 'Wold': 'Demetrice', 'Squod': 'Khanh', 'Turveydrop': 'Jianni', 'Rouncewell': 'Codi', 'Holmes': 'Kao', 'Poirot': 'Kemoni', 'Jellyby': 'Audi'}}