{"name": "Chapter 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219192414/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/where-angels-fear-to-tread/summary/chapter-2", "summary": "Torrence arrives in the small town of Monteriano, where Lilia and Caroline have been staying for the past month. He is tired and worried about how to clean up the mess Lilia has gotten herself into. Miss Abbott meets Torrence at the station, and the two of them take a carriage back to the hotel. Torrence gets straight to the point and asks Caroline how long Lilia has been engaged. Eleven days, to be exact . Miss Abbott then confesses that she was the one who brought up the idea of marriage . To his further dismay, Torrence is told that Lilia's fiance, Hector Carella, is not a nobleman, but rather the son of a dentist in Monteriano. For a wealthy, upper-class family like the Deovion, the social position of a dentist is pretty low on the totem pole. At dinner, Torrence is even more disgusted when he meets Hector. Although Hector has his looks going for him, everything else about him is crude and uncouth. Welcoming Hector as part of the family would certainly not be an option. When Torrence finally manages to get Lilia alone, the conversation does not go well. Lilia tries to convince Torrence that Hector's position as a dentist is improving and that he's climbing up the social ladder. Dismissing Lilia's praise of Hector, Torrence says that he has come to rescue Lilia from certain disgrace. But Lilia insists that this time she will marry for love and calls Hector into the room. Torrence bluntly offers Hector money in exchange for breaking off the engagement, but Hector merely laughs defiantly and drops the big news: He and Lilia are already married! They got married as soon as they heard Torrence was coming. Oh, goodness! Where are those smelling salts? In the confusion that ensues, Hector gives Torrence a friendly shove and then rushes off to tell Lilia the joke. Imagining that he has been physically assaulted, Torrence immediately tells Miss Abbott that he will be returning to Sawston the next day. Caroline pleads with him to take her back to England with him.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Philip': 'Torrence', 'pford': 'Merlyn', 'Gino': 'Hector', 'Benny': 'Aysar', 'Forster': 'Kamari', 'Herritons': 'Deovion', 'Spiridione': 'Zahne'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Hill': 'Jamisen', 'Herriton': 'Rashi', 'Tesi': 'Dwan'}}