{"name": "Chapter 7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219192414/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/where-angels-fear-to-tread/summary/chapter-7", "summary": "Early the next morning, Miss Abbott goes to see Hector alone, afraid that Torrence might fail in his mission to secure the baby. Miss Abbott convinces herself that only she knows how to handle Hector, who is strong-willed and won't part easily with his son. Leaving a note for Torrence explaining her intentions, Miss Abbott readies herself to confront Hector. Caroline is initially thrown off when she sees the baby--this whole time, the child had only been an object, an idea she had latched onto in an effort to make herself feel less guilty about Lilia's death. But now seeing the baby in person, Miss Abbott realizes how wrong it would be for her to control the child's fate. Pushing these troubling thoughts out of her head, Caroline tries to get down to business with Hector. As the conversation progresses, Miss Abbott learns that Hector intends to marry a second time so that there will be someone to help him take care of his son. Caroline expresses her disapproval, but her resolve is weakening. She is beginning to see that Hector really does love his son. In the adjoining room, the baby starts fussing and Hector remembers that it's time for his bath. Excusing himself from Miss Abbott, Hector prepares warm water for his son. By this point, Caroline feels all warm and fuzzy inside as she watches Hector tendering caring for the baby. She's completely won over by Hector's devotion to his son. She offers to help him bathe the baby, and the experience is strangely exhilarating for her. When Torrence arrives at the house , he walks in on Miss Abbott holding the baby in her arms with Hector sitting beside them. Miss Abbott stands up unsteadily and hands the baby to his father. She pulls Torrence aside, saying she has failed, and runs off in tears. Torrence doesn't understand what just happened, but he turns to Hector and they prepare to discuss business.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Philip': 'Torrence', 'pford': 'Merlyn', 'Gino': 'Hector', 'Benny': 'Aysar', 'Forster': 'Kamari', 'Herritons': 'Deovion', 'Spiridione': 'Zahne'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Hill': 'Jamisen', 'Herriton': 'Rashi', 'Tesi': 'Dwan'}}