{"name": "Chapter 8", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201219192414/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/where-angels-fear-to-tread/summary/chapter-8", "summary": "When Torrence returns to the hotel, Harriet is all worked up because Miss Abbott had burst into her room in tears to say that she had changed her mind and wouldn't let them take the baby. Torrence admits to Harriet that Hector had indeed refused to give up the child, but that they're meeting a second time later in the afternoon to talk about other ways the family might help out with the baby. Torrence goes to look for Miss Abbott, who has taken refuge at Santa Deodata Church. He tells Caroline that he's not angry with her, and that he's meeting Hector soon in a final attempt to give him money for the baby. But if that doesn't work, then he'll just head back to England. Miss Abbott suddenly becomes angry at Hector's indifference to the situation. She criticizes him for sitting idly by and not choosing a side to fight for. Torrence is hurt by her accusation, but also recognizes that she's right in sensing that he doesn't care about the baby's fate. Miss Abbott's honesty impresses Torrence and his feelings for her grow stronger. Back at the hotel, Harriet tells Torrence that they will be taking the evening train out of Florence and that he must have the baby by half-past eight. But the afternoon meeting with Hector doesn't lead to anything--Hector still refuses to give up his son, and Torrence is ready to let the matter rest, feeling that there's nothing more he can to. The two men part on good terms, and Torrence actually feels genuine affection for Hector. Torrence and Miss Abbott prepare to leave for the station, but they can't find Harriet anywhere in the hotel. Shortly before it's time for them to catch the train, Harriet sends a note to Torrence, telling him to pick her up just outside the gate to the village. He doesn't understand what she means, but he takes the first carriage to find her, and Miss Abbott follows him in the second carriage. As the carriage pulls up to the gate, Torrence sees Harriet holding a bundle in her arms. She has succeeded where Torrence and Miss Abbott had failed--she has the baby! Torrence presses her with questions--how did she manage it? How was she able to convince Hector? But Harriet tells Torrence to be quiet; the baby is sleeping. Torrence assumes she had successfully bargained with Hector, and he's willing to wait to hear the details later. The carriage is driving slightly too fast around the curvy road, which is muddy from the recent rain. And as Torrence and Harriet examine the baby, who appears to be distressed and is crying silently, there is a loud shout followed by a crash. They have collided with Miss Abbott's carriage, and tumbled out onto the road. Torrence's arm is in pain and appears to be broken. Harriet is screaming uncontrollably, and Torrence is horrified when her screams become coherent: \"The baby--it slipped--I stole it!\" . Torrence finds a bundle \"lying in the mud in darkness\" : the baby has been killed.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Philip': 'Torrence', 'pford': 'Merlyn', 'Gino': 'Hector', 'Benny': 'Aysar', 'Forster': 'Kamari', 'Herritons': 'Deovion', 'Spiridione': 'Zahne'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Hill': 'Jamisen', 'Herriton': 'Rashi', 'Tesi': 'Dwan'}}