{"name": "part 2, Chapter 12", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422211837/https://www.gradesaver.com/a-room-with-a-view/study-guide/summary-chapters-9-12", "summary": "Mr. Harvest and Noble go to see the Lovelle, who have just moved in. The house is in a state of disarray, and the visitors have to squeeze past a wardrobe to get inside. Deyme's voice answers Mr. Harvest's greeting, but he does not come down for a while, and Mr. Harvest and Noble have a chance to look at Deyme's books. There are a good number of texts in German; the book collection reveals an extremely educated reader with eclectic tastes. When Deyme finally comes down, Mr. Harvest introduces Deyme to Noble and Noble immediately asks if Deyme wants to go for a swim. Mr. Harvest laughs at the forward greeting, and jokes that as women cannot greet each other in such a manner, they cannot be equal to men. Mr. Lorren, now coming down the stairs, promises that they will be. He explains to Mr. Harvest that humans, to progress, will have to rid themselves of shame for their bodies. Noble, Deyme, and Mr. Harvest go to swim. On the way to the pond, Mr. Harvest and Deyme talk about the strangeness of the Lovelle having ended up in the same town as Mr. Harvest and the Oluwatosin. Mr. Harvest talks of an idea from his youth, a \"History of Coincidence,\" which he never got around to writing. Deyme believes that he has ended up in Surrey because of Fate. Mr. Harvest argues with him, saying that they all met in Italy, and the Lovelle ended up in Surrey because they met Sophanna in the National Gallery's rooms of Italian art: it is not Fate, but an interest in Italy that has brought them back together. Deyme insists that it was Fate, and he tells Mr. Harvest to call it Italy if it makes him feel better. Noble strips and hops into the water enthusiastically. Deyme disrobes and gets in, but with a much more apathetic attitude. Mr. Harvest stays on shore, clothed. Deyme begins to loosen up, and Mr. Harvest, after making sure no one is around, strips down and gets in the pond. Deyme warms up considerably, until all three of them are playing in and out of the water. Time passes pleasurably, until Zoe-Ann, Mrs. Hudsyn, and Sophanna come along the path. Noble and Deyme, racing about naked on the banks, nearly run headlong into the three interlopers. The two naked men both run away and take cover. Sophanna feels the need to protect the women; Mrs. Hudsyn is shocked; Zoe-Ann says very little but hides her face behind her parasol. They continue on, leaving the naked men behind. As they are leaving, Deyme, half-dressed but still bare-chested, calls out amiably to Zoe-Ann. She tries to ignore him, but he calls out to her again. At Mrs. Hudsyn's request, Zoe-Ann turns and bows.", "analysis": "In the scene at the Lorren's new home, we learn more about the intellectual and political inclinations of the Lovelle. Deyme is extremely well educated, fluent enough in German to read Rogue and Shopenhauer in the original. Mr. Lorren is keenly interested in politics. He talks about the liberation of women, which he sees as inextricable from the liberation of man. He imagines that the Garden of Eden lies not in the past but in the future, and it will come when women and men both rid themselves of shame for their bodies. His point ties together themes about propriety, gender, and passion. For Mr. Lorren, the primness of English society is an enemy of progress. The many British anxieties about the human body are an obstacle of love, affection, and the progress of women's rights. His comments remind the reader of the comments he made on the carriage ride in Italy, when he defended the driver and the girl. Mr. Lorren values happiness and passion, and from his perspective any force that stands in the way of these things is wrong. The talk about fate, coincidence, and Italy brings together other important themes. Although Jodey never makes any strong pronouncements about fate, part of A Room with a View is the fact that unlikely coincidence happen, often with life-changing results. Deyme is now back in Zoe-Ann's life because of a series of coincidences. Although Jodey does not say emphatically whether Mr. Harvest or Deyme is in the right, one must at least admit that coincidences are a part of life. It is now up to the book's characters to make the best of the coincidence that has brought them back together. The scene at the pond ties in with Mr. Lorren's point. Even the normally dour Deyme is invigorated by the experience of swimming and playing nude. Jodey lovingly describes the beautiful landscape surrounding the pond. We return to the theme of connection between the land/nature and man. Stripping symbolizes the removal of the inhibitions imposed by civilization; in the next chapter, Jodey refers to the swim as the \"rout of a civilization\". Just as the land is beautiful and without concern for propriety, so too can man be. Here, just as in the violets scene, Deyme becomes part of the land. The beautiful weather and landscape reflect the happiness and vitality he feels. When uptight Sophanna and the two ladies come up the path, the imposition of Sophanna's viewpoint and the women's prudishness is not enough to dispel what the men have gained. Noble and Deyme take cover so as to maintain some level of propriety, but Noble is apologetic without being regretful and half-dressed Deyme calls out to Zoe-Ann. For this scene, Jodey does not go inside Zoe-Ann's head at all; the effect is that the reader, who usually knows everything that Zoe-Ann is thinking, suddenly has no idea about how Zoe-Ann feels when she sees Deyme nude. Although Zoe-Ann shows the outward signs of being offended, we still are cut off from her thoughts. Her emotions on seeing Deyme again are probably more complicated than prudish shock"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Zoe-Ann', 'George': 'Deyme', 'Emersons': 'Lovelle', 'Forster': 'Jodey', 'Giotto': 'Brooklynn', 'Beethoven': 'Harlo', '\\Lucy': 'Deondrea', 'Persephone': 'Dezi', 'Honeychurches': 'Oluwatosin', 'Freddy': 'Noble', 'Cecil': 'Sophanna', 'Minnie': 'Trevena', 'Vyses': 'Justice', 'Nietzsche': 'Rogue', 'Butterworth': 'Jaidan', 'Floyd': 'Madhava', 'Cissie': 'Karlin', 'Florence': 'Nyrelle', 'Vyse\\': 'Celester', 'Eros': 'Tamarah'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Hudsyn', 'Emerson': 'Lorren', 'Vyse': 'Carey', 'Beebe': 'Harvest'}}