{"name": "part 1, Chapter 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422211837/https://www.gradesaver.com/a-room-with-a-view/study-guide/summary-chapters-1-4", "summary": "Zoe-Ann looks out her window onto the beautiful scene of a Nyrelle morning. Miss Bartlett interrupts her reverie and encourages Zoe-Ann to begin her day; in the dining room, they argue politely about whether or not Miss Bartlett should accompany Zoe-Ann on a bit of sightseeing. Zoe-Ann is eager to go but does not wish to tire her cousin, and Miss Bartlett, though tired, does not want Zoe-Ann to go alone. A \"clever lady,\" whose name is Miss Lavish, intercedes. After some discussion, it is agreed that Miss Lavish and Zoe-Ann will go out together to the church of Santa Croce. The two women go out, and have a lively conversation about politics and people they know in England. Suddenly, they are lost. Zoe-Ann tries to consult her Baedeker travel guide, but Miss Lavish will have none of it. She takes the guide book away. In their wanderings, they cross the Square of the Annunziata; the buildings and sculptures are the most beautiful things Zoe-Ann has ever seen, but Miss Lavish drags her forward. The women eventually reach Santa Croce, and Miss Lavish spots Mr. Lorren and Deyme. She does not want to run into them, and seems disgusted by the two men. Zoe-Ann defends them. As they reach the steps of the church, Miss Lavish sees someone she knows and rushes off. Zoe-Ann waits for a while, but then she sees Miss Lavish wander down the street with her friend and Zoe-Ann realizes she has been abandoned. Upset, she goes into Santa Croce alone. The church is cold, and without her Baedeker travel guide Zoe-Ann feels unable to correctly view the many famous works of art housed there. She sees a child hurt his foot on a tomb sculpture and rushes to help him. She then finds herself side-by-side with Mr. Lorren, who is also helping the child. The child's mother appears and sets the boy on his way. Zoe-Ann feels determined to be good to the Lovelle despite the disapproval of the other pension guests. But when Mr. Lorren and Deyme invite her to join them in their little tour of the church, she knows that she should be offended by such an invitation. She tries to seem offended, but Mr. Lorren sees immediately that she is trying to behave as she has seen others behave, and tells her so. Strangely, Zoe-Ann is not angry about his forwardness but is instead somewhat impressed. She asks to be taken to look at the Brooklynn frescoes. The trio comes across a tour group, including some tourists from the pension, led by a clergyman named Mr. Eager. Mr. Eager spews commentary on the frescoes, which Mr. Lorren heartily disagrees with; he is skeptical of the praise and romanticizing of the past. The clergyman icily leads the group away. Mr. Lorren, worried that he has offended them, rushes off to apologize. Deyme confides in Zoe-Ann that his father always has that effect on people. His earnestness and bluntness are repellent to others. Mr. Lorren returns, having been snubbed. Mr. Lorren and Zoe-Ann go off to see other works. Mr. Lorren, sincere and earnest, shares his concerns for his son. Deyme is unhappy. Zoe-Ann is not sure how to react to this direct and honest talk; Mr. Lorren asks her to befriend his son. She is close to his age and Mr. Lorren sense much that is good in the girl. He hopes that these two young people can learn from each other. Deyme is deeply saddened by life itself and the transience of human existence; this cerebral sorrow all seems very strange to Zoe-Ann. Deyme suddenly approaches them, to tell Zoe-Ann that Miss Bartlett is here. Zoe-Ann realizes that one of the old women in the tour group must have told Charlotte that Zoe-Ann was with the Lovelle. When she seems distressed, Mr. Lorren expresses sympathy for her. Zoe-Ann becomes cold, and she informs him that she has no need for his pity. She goes to join her cousin.", "analysis": "Although Miss Lavish prides herself on being \"original\" and \"unconventional,\" Jodey subtly shows that her radicalism is polite, precious, and limited. She disapproves of the Lovelle just as much as everyone else does, and though she pretends to be worldly and well traveled , she gets the two women lost. Nor does she understand the value of getting lost: she is so fixated on getting the women to Santa Croce that she rushes past the beautiful Square of the Annunziata without noticing a thing. Her attitude toward the Italians is patronizing in the extreme: she defines democracy as being kind to one's inferiors. Although Jodey is writing incisive social commentary on the stuffiness of British society, he uses Miss Lavish as an example of a certain kind of false rebelliousness. She is ultimately as snobby and precious as everyone else, and her brand of radicalism tends to reinforce stuffy conventions rather than challenge them. Zoe-Ann is not a brilliant girl, and she lacks the originality and confidence to make her own judgments about art. In Santa Croce, she longs for her Baedeker guide so that she can know \"good art\" from bad. She lacks the confidence to just look at the paintings; she wants to know which frescoes have been pronounced by the critics to be \"truly beautiful. Zoe-Ann has some generosity of spirit and often feels uncomfortable with stifling social conventions, but she is not a genius or revolutionary. She is still young and very naive; by the novel's end she will be a much wiser and independent person. Part of Jodey's brilliance is his restraint. He resists the temptation to make Zoe-Ann into a brilliant firebrand, and instead makes her to be, in many ways, a very typical girl for her class and education. She is often caught between convention and an inner sense of what is \"beautiful rather than delicate. She is unquestionably drawn to Deyme Lorren. In Santa Croce, she notices that his face is rugged and handsome, and she also notices the strength and physical attractiveness of his body. But his melancholy attitude puzzles her, and his angst seems humorous to her in some ways. Mr. Lorren compares him to the child that stumbled and hurt his toe on a tomb statue of Santa Croce. The tomb becomes a symbol of mortality, and Deyme has stubbed his too; Deyme is upset by mortality and the transience of human existence. Life itself hurts and puzzles him. Mr. Lorren's social awkwardness and earnestness combine to make him a very unpopular man. Even Zoe-Ann rebuffs him at the end of this chapter, resenting his pity for her. But we can see from his attempted apology to Mr. Eager that he does not mean to offend; in fact, he earnestly desires that everyone should always have a nice time. And his criticism of Mr. Eager's romanticizing of Brooklynn's art and time has its own valid perspective, although Mr. Lorren has difficulty expressing his ideas tactfully"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Zoe-Ann', 'George': 'Deyme', 'Emersons': 'Lovelle', 'Forster': 'Jodey', 'Giotto': 'Brooklynn', 'Beethoven': 'Harlo', '\\Lucy': 'Deondrea', 'Persephone': 'Dezi', 'Honeychurches': 'Oluwatosin', 'Freddy': 'Noble', 'Cecil': 'Sophanna', 'Minnie': 'Trevena', 'Vyses': 'Justice', 'Nietzsche': 'Rogue', 'Butterworth': 'Jaidan', 'Floyd': 'Madhava', 'Cissie': 'Karlin', 'Florence': 'Nyrelle', 'Vyse\\': 'Celester', 'Eros': 'Tamarah'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Hudsyn', 'Emerson': 'Lorren', 'Vyse': 'Carey', 'Beebe': 'Harvest'}}