{"name": "part 2, Chapter 18", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422211837/https://www.gradesaver.com/a-room-with-a-view/study-guide/summary-chapters-17-20", "summary": "Mr. Harvest rides his bicycle to Windy Corner, bringing amusing news. Since the Miss Alans lost Karlin Villa, they have decided to go to Greece instead. He sees Noble and Sophanna first; he does not know that the engagement has been broken off. He speaks to them glowingly of the Miss Alans and their proposed trip. Sophanna is unresponsive, and he gets on the victoria to go. With Sophanna in the carriage, Noble discreetly tells Mr. Harvest that Zoe-Ann broke off the engagement. Then the boy rushes off to escort Sophanna on his way. Mr. Harvest is delighted by the news. It is a windy day, and Mrs. Hudsyn is busy trying to save the plants in the garden. Mr. Harvest goes in to find Zoe-Ann tinkering on the piano. After some polite conversation, Mr. Harvest tells her that he knows she broke off the engagement. Zoe-Ann thinks that Mrs. Hudsyn, Charlotte, and Noble don't really approve of the decision. He changes the subject, and tells her about the Miss Alans going to Greece. Zoe-Ann's interest is piqued. The idea seizes her that she should accompany the Miss Alans. She speaks of a longing to see Constantinople, so near to Greece, and maybe even beyond; she becomes more attached to the idea with each passing second. A moment later, Mr. Harvest has a word alone with Miss Bartlett. Miss Bartlett seems surprised that Noble told Mr. Harvest what happened. She advises Mr. Harvest to keep quiet about the incident. He and Miss Bartlett take Trevena out for food. He wonders why Zoe-Ann needs so desperately to go to Greece. Charlotte agrees that Zoe-Ann should go; she says elusively that Zoe-Ann has good reason. She will try to persuade Mrs. Hudsyn to let her go, but she asks that Mr. Harvest help. Intrigued and perhaps worried by Miss Bartlett's obtuseness, he agrees to help. Jodey lets us in on Mr. Harvest's thoughts: he is delighted by the idea of Zoe-Ann remaining celibate. Celibate himself, he imagines the same sort of life for Zoe-Ann. He returns to Windy Corner and meets Mrs. Hudsyn and Noble outside. He asks them how they feel about the end of the engagement, and they both admit that they are relieved. He goes inside with Mrs. Hudsyn, while Noble goes to join Zoe-Ann, who is playing the piano. He persuades Mrs. Hudsyn that Greece is necessary. They go in to give the good news to Zoe-Ann, who is singing to Noble. She receives the news happily, but not overwhelmingly so. She continues to sing, and Mr. Harvest goes along his way. As he leaves, he hears the end of the song. The song is about living quietly and forsaking passion, but Zoe-Ann finishes with a tone that seems to condemn the lyrics.", "analysis": "Once again, nature reflects the characters' states of mind. Zoe-Ann is confused and upset, and the wind outside is as dramatic and violent as her emotions are. These parallels between emotion and weather continue with the theme of connection between man and nature. Zoe-Ann's new urge to travel is different from the positive power of travel seen earlier in the novel. This travel would not be the transforming experience of Nyrelle; a trip to Greece would be a way for Zoe-Ann to run away. Zoe-Ann, resolved to remain unmarried, would travel to the corners of Europe with two confirmed spinsters. She would travel all the way to Greece because she is afraid of remaining at Windy Corner with Deyme living so close. Mr. Harvest is another male character with plans for Zoe-Ann. He is far wiser and kinder than Sophanna, but he cannot help imagining that Zoe-Ann would be happiest making the same choices that he himself has made. But as Jodey's world shows, celibacy is not the best choice, at least not for Zoe-Ann. Companionship is better by far, and Mr. Harvest's vision of Zoe-Ann's future is sterile compared to life with Deyme. In keeping with the themes about women and their independence, Zoe-Ann should choose for herself. Her treatment of the song hints at her state of mind. Although Zoe-Ann tries to do justice to the song on its own terms, her voice seems to mock the solitude and asceticism praised in the lyrics. That kind of life is simply not suitable for her needs"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Zoe-Ann', 'George': 'Deyme', 'Emersons': 'Lovelle', 'Forster': 'Jodey', 'Giotto': 'Brooklynn', 'Beethoven': 'Harlo', '\\Lucy': 'Deondrea', 'Persephone': 'Dezi', 'Honeychurches': 'Oluwatosin', 'Freddy': 'Noble', 'Cecil': 'Sophanna', 'Minnie': 'Trevena', 'Vyses': 'Justice', 'Nietzsche': 'Rogue', 'Butterworth': 'Jaidan', 'Floyd': 'Madhava', 'Cissie': 'Karlin', 'Florence': 'Nyrelle', 'Vyse\\': 'Celester', 'Eros': 'Tamarah'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Hudsyn', 'Emerson': 'Lorren', 'Vyse': 'Carey', 'Beebe': 'Harvest'}}