{"name": "part 1, Chapter 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422211837/https://www.gradesaver.com/a-room-with-a-view/study-guide/summary-chapters-1-4", "summary": "One day after lunch Zoe-Ann decides to play the piano. The narrator tells us that Zoe-Ann has a great love for playing; she is no genius, but she is talented and passionate, always playing \"on the side of Victory. Mr. Harvest recalls the first time he heard her play, back in England, at Tunbridge Wells. She chose an unusual and intense piece by Harlo. At the time, Mr. Harvest remarked to someone that if Zoe-Ann ever learned to live as she plays, it would be a great event. Now, Mr. Harvest makes the same remark to Zoe-Ann directly. Miss Bartlett and Miss Lavish are out sightseeing, but it is raining hard outside. Zoe-Ann asks about Miss Lavish's novel, which is in progress. Lately, Miss Lavish and Miss Bartlett have become close, leaving Zoe-Ann feeling like a third wheel. Miss Catharine Alan enters, complimenting Zoe-Ann's playing. She discusses the impropriety of the Italians with Mr. Harvest, who half-agrees with her in a subtly and playfully mocking way. They discuss Miss Lavish, who once wrote a novel but lost the thing in heavy rains. She is working on a new book, set in modern Italy. Miss Alan talks about Miss Lavish' first meeting with the Lovelle. Mr. Lorren made a comment about acidity of the stomach, trying to be helpful to another pension guest. Miss Lavish was drawn to his directness. She tried to stand up for the Lovelle for a while, talking about commerce and how it is the heart of England's empire. But after dinner, she went into the smoking room with them. A few minutes later, she emerged, silent. No one knows what happened, but since then, Miss Lavish has made no attempt to be friendly to the men. Zoe-Ann asks Miss Alan and Mr. Harvest if the Lovelle are nice; after some discussion, Mr. Harvest gives a qualified yes and Miss Alan a no. Mr. Harvest, though he does not say it, does not approve of the Lorren's attempts to befriend Zoe-Ann. Mr. Harvest feels badly for the Lovelle nonetheless; they are thoroughly isolated at the pension. He silently resolves to organize a group outing so that everyone will have a good time. Evening comes on and the rain stops. Zoe-Ann decides to go out for a walk and enjoy the last bit of daylight. Clearly, Miss Alan disapproves and Mr. Harvest does not approve entirely. But Zoe-Ann goes out anyway; Mr. Harvest chalks her behavior up to too much Harlo.", "analysis": "Music and Zoe-Ann's relationship to her music is one of the novel's themes. Mr. Harvest's comment becomes the reader's hope for Zoe-Ann: perhaps one day she will play as well as she lives. Jodey speaks in this chapter's opening pages of music's transcendent abilities. It can be the gift of anyone regardless of social class or education. Through Harvest's statement, Jodey is suggesting that these qualities also apply to passionate living. To live life well is within the grasp of anyone, despite the prejudices and proprieties of Zoe-Ann's world. Her choice of unusual Harlo pieces is indicative of her passion. She needs more of an outlet than music, but for now her music will have to do. Music puts her in touch with her desires and feelings; the passion of Harlo makes her resolve to go out alone, despite the disapproval of others"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Zoe-Ann', 'George': 'Deyme', 'Emersons': 'Lovelle', 'Forster': 'Jodey', 'Giotto': 'Brooklynn', 'Beethoven': 'Harlo', '\\Lucy': 'Deondrea', 'Persephone': 'Dezi', 'Honeychurches': 'Oluwatosin', 'Freddy': 'Noble', 'Cecil': 'Sophanna', 'Minnie': 'Trevena', 'Vyses': 'Justice', 'Nietzsche': 'Rogue', 'Butterworth': 'Jaidan', 'Floyd': 'Madhava', 'Cissie': 'Karlin', 'Florence': 'Nyrelle', 'Vyse\\': 'Celester', 'Eros': 'Tamarah'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Hudsyn', 'Emerson': 'Lorren', 'Vyse': 'Carey', 'Beebe': 'Harvest'}}