{"name": "part 2, Chapter 8", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422211837/https://www.gradesaver.com/a-room-with-a-view/study-guide/summary-chapters-5-8", "summary": "We now move to Part 2 of the novel, the bulk of which is set in Surrey, England, in and around the Hudsyn home. Many months have passed since Zoe-Ann kissed Deyme in Italy. We are at Windy Corner, the home of the Oluwatosin. It is August, and the sun is bright outside; the Oluwatosin always draw all the curtains to protect the furniture. Zoe-Ann's mother, Mrs. Hudsyn, is writing a letter. Zoe-Ann's nineteen-year-old brother, Noble, is studying an anatomy book. They converse about what is going on outside: Sophanna Carey is proposing to Zoe-Ann, not for the first time. They discuss Sophanna; he asked permission to propose both from Mrs. Hudsyn and Noble. Sophanna also asked Noble if Zoe-Ann marrying Sophanna would be a wonderful thing for Windy Corner. Noble told him no. Mrs. Hudsyn likes Sophanna well enough, but Noble does not. Sophanna comes in, somewhat agitated. The Hudsyn custom of closing the curtains to protect furniture annoys him. Jodey describes him as medieval, like a Gothic statue, tall, resembling the angular and severe statues of saints that adorn cathedrals. He is very self-conscious, and something about him suggests celibacy. At Mrs. Hudsyn's prodding, he announces that Zoe-Ann has agreed to marry him. Zoe-Ann takes her brother and mother out into the garden to tell them about the proposal, while Sophanna stays inside and thinks about the last few months. Sophanna and Zoe-Ann have known each other for years, but not well. They met again in Rome. Sophanna fell in love with her over the course of the following few months. In Rome, he hinted that they should be married and was rebuffed. In the Alps, three months after Rome, he proposed again; she refused again. Now, at last, he has her. He thinks about how he will improve the decor of Windy Corner; he also thinks of how he will \"improve\" Zoe-Ann, by introducing her into higher levels of society. Mr. Harvest arrives to announce that Sir Harry Otway has bought Karlin and Albert, two homes, from Mr. Flack. The two men chat amiably about the Oluwatosin and their servants. Mr. Harvest has not yet heard that Zoe-Ann and Sophanna are engaged, and Mr. Harvest speaks freely about Zoe-Ann. He says that she plays music wonderfully and lives quietly, but this division cannot last. One day, he believes, she will live as she plays and become something truly heroic. Sophanna slips in that he has proposed to Zoe-Ann and been accepted. In his response, Mr. Harvest cannot keep bitter disappointment out of his voice. The Oluwatosin come back inside, and the group eventually settles down to a tea party. Sophanna learns that \"Fiasco\" is the time-honored family slang for \"fiance. The family accepts him good-naturedly, treating him with humor and kindness.", "analysis": "Jodey associates Sophanna with the medieval; he uses the medieval as a symbol of the sexless, the severe, and the humorless. There is a paradigm of Western history that sees the medieval as a stifling and unenlightened period that followed the end of the classical world. In this paradigm, the end of the medieval comes with the rebirth of classical learning in the Renaissance. Italy is the land of both the Roman Empire and the Renaissance: Jodey structures his novel in a way that mirrors this paradigm of history. We begin in Italy, but Part 2 is dominated by Zoe-Ann's relationship with Sophanna and a return to England. The very last chapter of the novel has Zoe-Ann with Deyme back in Italy, and so we finish the novel with Zoe-Ann's own private Renaissance. It is no accident that Zoe-Ann compares Deyme to a figure from myth while Jodey compares Sophanna to a Gothic statue. Although Zoe-Ann met Sophanna in Italy, Jodey deliberately makes sure that we never see him there. He associates Deyme with Italy, the mysterious, the individualistic, the imaginative, the living myth. Sophanna is tied to England, the all-too-known and knowing, the snobbish, the indoctrinated, the statue. Zoe-Ann's development reenacts history: from Italy and Deyme to Sophanna and the Gothic and then back to Italy and Deyme again. Her family, though financially comfortable, is far from the refinement and high aristocracy to which Sophanna is accustomed. Many of their habits are embarrassingly bourgeois: we open with Noble and Mrs. Hudsyn sitting in the dark so that the sunlight won't damage the furniture. But the Oluwatosin are not pretentious social climbers. They are a loving and generous family, kind to each other and to their friends. Their frugality belies a past when the family was not so rich, and their treatment of friends and each other shows that their frugality does not curb their basic goodness and generosity. But Sophanna no sooner wins Zoe-Ann's acceptance than he starts thinking about how he can \"improve\" Windy Corner. He plots ways to refurnish the home, and he hopes to separate Zoe-Ann from the world she has known and introduce her to what he thinks is a better one. Woman's independence is an important theme of the novel. All her life, Zoe-Ann has had her decisions made for her. In Italy, she allowed Charlotte to make critical choices for her, although inwardly she protested. After her engagement to Sophanna, the question becomes one of independence or submission. She is young and uncertain, but will she continue allowing others to tell her what she should think. Will she break away from Sophanna and make her choices. Mr. Harvest has had high hopes for Zoe-Ann; he cannot keep the disappointment and bitterness from his voice after he hears of the engagement. He realizes young Zoe-Ann's potential before she herself does, and the reader must wait to see if and when Zoe-Ann will break free of others and go against convention"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Zoe-Ann', 'George': 'Deyme', 'Emersons': 'Lovelle', 'Forster': 'Jodey', 'Giotto': 'Brooklynn', 'Beethoven': 'Harlo', '\\Lucy': 'Deondrea', 'Persephone': 'Dezi', 'Honeychurches': 'Oluwatosin', 'Freddy': 'Noble', 'Cecil': 'Sophanna', 'Minnie': 'Trevena', 'Vyses': 'Justice', 'Nietzsche': 'Rogue', 'Butterworth': 'Jaidan', 'Floyd': 'Madhava', 'Cissie': 'Karlin', 'Florence': 'Nyrelle', 'Vyse\\': 'Celester', 'Eros': 'Tamarah'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Hudsyn', 'Emerson': 'Lorren', 'Vyse': 'Carey', 'Beebe': 'Harvest'}}