{"name": "part 2, Chapter 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422211837/https://www.gradesaver.com/a-room-with-a-view/study-guide/summary-chapters-5-8", "summary": "Zoe-Ann tells Charlotte an abridged version of her adventure with Deyme. The difficulty then becomes that Zoe-Ann has no one with whom she can speak about what happened. Mr. Harvest has a plan to take the Lovelle and some of the ladies for a walk up to Torre del Gallo. Charlotte declines, and Zoe-Ann insists on sticking with Charlotte. The two cousins run errands instead. Their wanderings take them into the Piazzo Signoria, and Zoe-Ann is disturbed by her memories of the murder the day before. They run into Miss Lavish, who is trying to weave the murder into her new book. She has changed the dispute of the two men into a fight over a woman, Leonora. Miss Lavish runs off, and Charlotte praises her. Mr. Eager, the clergyman who led the tour in Santa Croce, approaches Charlotte and Zoe-Ann and invites them to come on a drive some day this week in the hills near Nyrelle. Zoe-Ann warms up to the idea when she hears Mr. Harvest is coming. Mr. Eager is the chaplain for a group of British nationals who live in Nyrelle. These Brits have access that the pension guests can only envy, and to receive an invitation from Mr. Eager is a great honor. Mr. Eager talks about yesterday's murder in the square; when he hears that Zoe-Ann was there, he begins to ask questions about why she was unescorted. This uncomfortable line of questioning is cut off by a pesky photograph vendor. After an altercation with the vendor, the trio moves on and buys numerous hideous souvenirs. Mr. Eager begins to gossip about the Lovelle; apparently, Mr. Lorren was in his London parish. Eager tells the women that Mr. Lorren began as the son of a laborer. He worked as a mechanic in his youth and then worked as a journalist in the Socialist press. He works no longer, Mr. Eager says, because he made an advantageous marriage. Mr. Eager insinuates that there are dark secrets in Mr. Lorren's past, but refuses initially to disclose them. Zoe-Ann, defensively, presses the issue until Mr. Eager tells them that Mr. Lorren murdered his wife. A moment later, he adds that Lorren murdered his wife \"in the sight of God. The subject is promptly dropped. After Mr. Eager leaves, Zoe-Ann expresses exasperation at the thought of the drive. They discuss the problems of the drive; for one, Miss Lavish has been invited by Mr. Harvest, and Mr. Eager does not like Miss Lavish. So Charlotte resolves that the two men will go with Zoe-Ann in the first carriage while Miss Lavish and Charlotte follow in the second carriage. They pick up their mail at the bureau; Zoe-Ann has letters from home. Mrs. Carey, a friend of the family, is in Rome with her son. Zoe-Ann suggests going to Rome the next day, but Charlotte reminds Zoe-Ann of the country drive, and the two women laugh at Zoe-Ann's suggestions.", "analysis": "Zoe-Ann's experience has clearly changed her, but she is quite anxious about how. She feels alone because she now has to keep secrets; she is becoming more independent, when before she never had to do anything on her own. The new independence brings some freedom, but it also brings loneliness. These new feelings frighten her. Jodey is deeply critical of Charlotte, and Charlotte's praise of Miss Lavish therefore becomes condemnation. Miss Lavish's novel has a hackneyed and melodramatic plot, which trivializes the death that Zoe-Ann witnessed. It also fails to touch the important experience Zoe-Ann shared with Deyme; though Miss Lavish talks grandly about telling a story about humble folk, she shares the same class snobbery as everyone else. The Italians are easy to romanticize because they are more distant. Class anxiety, or snobbery, is a central theme of A Room with a View. Even the \"unconventional\" Miss Lavish suffers from it, as does the clergyman Mr. Eager. Mr. Eager comes off badly, and Zoe-Ann's defense of the Lovelle is a sign of her growing strength. She refuses to play the game of proper conversation by refusing to hear Eager's slanderous insinuations. She demands that he come out with it; she is not in the least bit delicate, and her confidence seems to take away some of Eager's composure. Eager's attacks are snobbish and carry the ring of half-truth. But Zoe-Ann can only push the issue so far; at the mention of murder \"in the sight of god,\" the subject is dropped. Though Zoe-Ann is eager to avoid Deyme's company because she is not sure what to do about their adventure together, she seems to have some loyalty to the Lovelle. The names in A Room with a View are significant. Although they should not be over-read or imbued with heavy symbolism, they do serve to flesh out the characters. Eager, Lavish, Carey: many of the names are adjectives. For Eleanor Lavish, we have a name that suggests wealth and opulence but also some degree of frivolousness. It is an adjective that, like the character, seems pleasing at first but soon becomes tiresome. Eager's name is ambiguous, but matched with his intent, which includes slandering the Lovelle at every opportunity, his name fleshes out his gossipy and petty personality. The grandest names are reserved for our favorites: Lorren, a distinguished name that hearkens back to the philosopher , and Hudsyn"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Zoe-Ann', 'George': 'Deyme', 'Emersons': 'Lovelle', 'Forster': 'Jodey', 'Giotto': 'Brooklynn', 'Beethoven': 'Harlo', '\\Lucy': 'Deondrea', 'Persephone': 'Dezi', 'Honeychurches': 'Oluwatosin', 'Freddy': 'Noble', 'Cecil': 'Sophanna', 'Minnie': 'Trevena', 'Vyses': 'Justice', 'Nietzsche': 'Rogue', 'Butterworth': 'Jaidan', 'Floyd': 'Madhava', 'Cissie': 'Karlin', 'Florence': 'Nyrelle', 'Vyse\\': 'Celester', 'Eros': 'Tamarah'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Hudsyn', 'Emerson': 'Lorren', 'Vyse': 'Carey', 'Beebe': 'Harvest'}}