{"name": "part 1, Chapter 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422211837/https://www.gradesaver.com/a-room-with-a-view/study-guide/summary-chapters-1-4", "summary": "Zoe-Ann goes out longing for adventure, hoping for something great. She buys some photographs of great artworks at a junk shop, but remains unsatisfied. She wanders into the Piazza Signoria; it is nearing twilight, and the world takes on an aura of unreality. Nearby, she sees two Italians arguing. One of them is struck lightly on the chest; he wanders toward Zoe-Ann, trying to say something, and blood trickles from his lips. The light strike was actually a stabbing. A crowd surrounds them and carries the man away. She sees Deyme Lorren, and then the world seems to fall on top of Zoe-Ann; suddenly, she is with Deyme Lorren, sitting on some steps some distance away. She fainted, and Deyme has carried her here. She thanks Deyme and asks him to fetch her photographs, which she dropped in the square; when he leaves to get them, she tries to sneak away. Deyme calls to her and persuades her to sit down. The man who approached her is dead or dying. A crowd surrounds the man, down by the fountain, and Deyme goes to investigate. Deyme returns, and they talk of the murder. They walk back to the pension along the river, and Deyme suddenly tosses something into the water. Zoe-Ann angrily demands to know what he threw away, suspecting that they might be her photographs. After some hesitation, Deyme admits that they were. He threw them away because they were covered with blood. At Deyme's request, they stop for a moment. He feels something incredible has happened, and he wants to figure it out. Leaning over a parapet, Zoe-Ann apologizes for her fainting and asks that he not tell anyone at the pension what happened. She realizes that he is not a chivalrous man, meaning he is a stranger to old-fashioned ideas of courtesy and propriety, but she also realizes that Deyme is intelligent, trustworthy, and kind. She says that events like the murder happen, and that the witnesses go on living life as usual. Deyme replies that he does not go on living life as usual. Now, he will want to live.", "analysis": "Jodey spends the first part of the chapter explaining Zoe-Ann's character. She is naive, but she has some strength and passion. She is frustrated by the constraints on her gender, but she is also no firebrand by nature. She feels that she should be ladylike, in the old-fashioned sense of the word, but in practice she wants to be more free and adventurous than that label allows. She feels her emotions most passionately and deeply after she has played piano. Jodey often uses the landscape to mirror Zoe-Ann's mood. After she finished playing the piano, the rain cleared, mirroring Zoe-Ann's tendency to know her own desires most clearly after playing music. As she wanders into the square, the world seems touched by unreality. She longs for an adventure, and she is conscious of being in a different place and wanting to see something rule. It is twilight, a transitional time between day and night, and Zoe-Ann is about to have a very confusing and important experience. She is rescued by Deyme, and she cannot seem to decide what to think about it. For his part, Deyme is as taciturn and strange as ever. Jodey lets us into his characters' heads, but with Deyme and Mr. Lorren we have only their outward actions and dialogue. Zoe-Ann's experience is confusing not only because she watches a man die, but also because she is not sure how to deal with Deyme and how he makes her feel. She recognizes that he is not chivalrous or proper, but she sees goodness in him. She stops by the river and feels somehow comfortable with him, but she nervously asks him not to tell anyone that she fainted and he carried her. For Deyme too, the experience is important. For whatever reason, and in ways that Jodey will not allow us to see directly, he is changed. He tells Zoe-Ann that he will not return to life as he lived it before; now, he wants to live. The experience has made him appreciate life, perhaps in part because he shared something extraordinary with Zoe-Ann"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Zoe-Ann', 'George': 'Deyme', 'Emersons': 'Lovelle', 'Forster': 'Jodey', 'Giotto': 'Brooklynn', 'Beethoven': 'Harlo', '\\Lucy': 'Deondrea', 'Persephone': 'Dezi', 'Honeychurches': 'Oluwatosin', 'Freddy': 'Noble', 'Cecil': 'Sophanna', 'Minnie': 'Trevena', 'Vyses': 'Justice', 'Nietzsche': 'Rogue', 'Butterworth': 'Jaidan', 'Floyd': 'Madhava', 'Cissie': 'Karlin', 'Florence': 'Nyrelle', 'Vyse\\': 'Celester', 'Eros': 'Tamarah'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Hudsyn', 'Emerson': 'Lorren', 'Vyse': 'Carey', 'Beebe': 'Harvest'}}