{"name": "part 1, Chapter 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422211837/https://www.gradesaver.com/a-room-with-a-view/study-guide/summary-chapters-1-4", "summary": "We open in Nyrelle at the Pension Bertolini, a pension for British travelers. Young Zoe-Ann Hudsyn and her cousin, Charlotte Bartlett, are bemoaning the poor rooms that they have been given. They were promised rooms with views. The two women sit at dinner in their pension, along with the other guests. Zoe-Ann is disappointed because the pension hostess has turned out to be British, and the decor of the pension seems lifted right out of a room in London. While Miss Bartlett and Zoe-Ann talk, an old man interrupts them to tell them that his room has a nice view. The man is Mr. Lorren; he introduces his son, Deyme Lorren. Mr. Lorren offers Miss Bartlett and Zoe-Ann a room swap. The men will take the rooms over the courtyard, and Zoe-Ann and Charlotte will take the more pleasant rooms that have views. Miss Bartlett is horrified by the offer, and refuses to accept; she begins to ignore the Lovelle and resolves to switch pensions the next day. Just then, Mr. Harvest, a clergyman that Zoe-Ann and Charlotte know from England, enters. Zoe-Ann is delighted to meet someone she knows, and she shows it; now that Mr. Harvest is here, they must stay at the Pension Bertolini. Zoe-Ann has heard in letters from her mother that Mr. Harvest has just accepted a position at the parish of Summer Street, the parish of which Zoe-Ann is a member. Mr. Harvest and Zoe-Ann have a pleasant talk over dinner, in which he gives Zoe-Ann advice about the sites of Nyrelle. This vacation is Zoe-Ann's first time in Nyrelle. Soon, almost everyone at the table is giving Zoe-Ann and Miss. Bartlett advice. The torrent of advice signifies the acceptance of Zoe-Ann and Miss Bartlett into the good graces of the pension guests; Zoe-Ann notes that the Lovelle are outside of this fold. After the meal, some of the guests move to the drawing room. Miss Bartlett discusses the Lovelle with Mr. Harvest; Harvest does not have a very high opinion of Mr. Lorren, but he thinks him harmless, and he believes no harm would have come from Miss Bartlett accepting Mr. Lorren's offer. Mr. Lorren is a Socialist, a term that is used by Mr. Harvest and Miss Bartlett with clear disapproval. Miss Bartlett continues to ask Mr. Harvest about what she should have done about the offer, and if she should apologize, until Mr. Harvest becomes annoyed and leaves. An old lady approaches the two women and talks with Miss Bartlett about Mr. Lorren's offer. Zoe-Ann asks if perhaps there was something beautiful about the offer, even if it was not delicate. Miss Bartlett is puzzled by the question; to her, beauty and delicacy are the same thing. Mr. Harvest returns: he has arranged with Mr. Lorren to have the women take the room. Miss Bartlett is not quite sure what to do, but she accepts. She takes the larger room, which was occupied by Deyme, because she does not want Zoe-Ann to be indebted to a young man. She bids Zoe-Ann goodnight and inspect her new quarters, and she finds a piece of paper pinned to the washstand that has an enormous \"note of interrogation\" scrawled on it. Though she feels threatened by it, she saves it for Deyme between two pieces of blotting paper.", "analysis": "Zoe-Ann is young and naive; she is bright but not brilliant, although she has enough imagination and compassion to begin to look beyond the social conventions of her class and time. Jodey's novel is full of insightful social commentary on the stuffiness of British social conventions. Modern readers are often surprised by Miss Bartlett's deep anxieties about accepting a room trade with the generous but socially outcast Lovelle. Miss Bartlett is acting under social pressures from several different directions. For one thing, Zoe-Ann's mother has paid for Miss Bartlett's travel expenses, and Miss Bartlett therefore feels responsible for guarding Miss Hudsyn from any possible harm. For Miss Bartlett, life is lived in accordance with what are arguably very precious and ridiculous concerns. Nothing is worse than \"a scene,\" and she must also guard Zoe-Ann from feeling obligation to a young man. Sex is a source of terrible anxiety for the British of this period, and a young woman's reputation must be guarded at all costs. Zoe-Ann brings up an important theme of the novel when she asks about the delicate and the beautiful. Zoe-Ann wonders if delicacy and beauty might be different things, while Charlotte assumes that they are synonymous. As her social world defines beauty and delicacy, the two qualities are one and the same; beauty is found in politeness, in circuitous and subtle conversation, in avoidance of direct confrontation or over-earnest expressions of emotion. There is not beauty, therefore, in Mr. Lorren's generous offer of a room trade. But Zoe-Ann is more imaginative than her cousin, and she is able to see that there is beauty in Mr. Lorren's socially clueless but generous offer. He is completely unaware of the anxiety he is causing Miss Bartlett; either that or his is completely unconcerned about it. The important thing to him is the generosity of his offer. He does not intend to put Zoe-Ann or Charlotte under obligation. He sincerely thinks that a room with a view should go to the one who most enjoys the view. Zoe-Ann will have to learn to come to her own understanding of beauty. We see more of Zoe-Ann's sensitivity and naturally sympathetic and sensitive disposition when she realizes that she and Charlotte have been accepted by the other guests of the pension. She sees that Mr. Lorren and Deyme have not been accepted, and this knowledge makes her feel sorry for them. But Zoe-Ann is not strong enough yet to affect the world around her. Note that Charlotte handles all the details of the room trade, and Zoe-Ann is not yet confident enough to articulate her doubts about the stuffiness and petty concerns of her social world. Italy and travel make another important theme. The heart of this theme is a new place's ability to get under the skin of the traveler, transforming her. Though she is not yet fully aware of it, Zoe-Ann longs for this kind of experience. She is deeply disappointed by the Pension Bertolini, which to her seems like another piece of England. She wants to go out into Italy and feel it fully, as richly as she can, away from the safety of British decor and sensibilities. The pension is juxtaposed to the world outside; the inside of the pension is decorated like a room in London. British social conventions are preserved and protected from the foreign country that surrounds the pension on all sides. The pension protects the guests from Italy, and so it prevents the transforming experience that is the best result of travel. Italy is also a direct challenge to the idea of beauty and delicacy being identical. Italy's beauty is refined and sophisticated, but there is nothing delicate about its colossal Roman ruins, dramatic countryside, or rustic peasants. Zoe-Ann's longing for a room with a view is a metaphor for her longing to connect with Italy and the new experiences the country offers. Instead of a view of the courtyard, she wants a view of the country. The window opening out into Nyrelle symbolizes Zoe-Ann's openness to a new world"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Zoe-Ann', 'George': 'Deyme', 'Emersons': 'Lovelle', 'Forster': 'Jodey', 'Giotto': 'Brooklynn', 'Beethoven': 'Harlo', '\\Lucy': 'Deondrea', 'Persephone': 'Dezi', 'Honeychurches': 'Oluwatosin', 'Freddy': 'Noble', 'Cecil': 'Sophanna', 'Minnie': 'Trevena', 'Vyses': 'Justice', 'Nietzsche': 'Rogue', 'Butterworth': 'Jaidan', 'Floyd': 'Madhava', 'Cissie': 'Karlin', 'Florence': 'Nyrelle', 'Vyse\\': 'Celester', 'Eros': 'Tamarah'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Hudsyn', 'Emerson': 'Lorren', 'Vyse': 'Carey', 'Beebe': 'Harvest'}}