{"name": "part 2, Chapter 15", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422211837/https://www.gradesaver.com/a-room-with-a-view/study-guide/summary-chapters-13-16", "summary": "Sunday is a beautiful day. Jodey prominently mentions a red book lying on the path at Windy Corner; the people inside the house are busy with preparations for church. Only the women are going. The red book, as we will soon learn, is a library book of Sophanna's. It is a bad novel called Under a Loggia, and it will soon become important. Zoe-Ann and Sophanna have had a dismal conversation about church. The polite, half-secular religion of the upper bourgeoisie offends him; it must be fervent orthodoxy or nothing to Sophanna. Zoe-Ann does not want to change. She likes her family's half-committed and social approach to religion, and sees nothing wrong with it. After church, the women stop at Karlin to see the Lovelle. Mr. Lorren is upset because he has learned that Karlin was originally going to belong to the Miss Alans. In the course of the conversation, Zoe-Ann realizes that Deyme has not told his father about the kiss, even though he tells his father everything. The idea that he has kept it a secret, not treating it as a conquest, makes her incredibly happy. She returns home in high spirits. Sophanna refers to the Lovelle with condescension, calling them his \"proteges. It seems not right to Zoe-Ann somehow, but Sophanna ignores her. Jodey writes, \"For the only relationship which Sophanna conceived was feudal: that of protector and protected. He had no glimpse of the comradeship after which the girl's soul yearned\". Zoe-Ann has some worries about the impending marriage and London, but the weather is so beautiful and her family so loving and familiar that she believes that somehow everything at Windy Corner will last forever. She plays piano after lunch, but Deyme comes in and soon Zoe-Ann cannot concentrate. Noble proposes tennis, but Sophanna refuses to play. It is up to Zoe-Ann to make a fourth for doubles. They play, and Deyme is eager to win. Zoe-Ann plays on the opposite team. She is enjoying the beauty of the country around her house; in the beauty of the land, she is reminded of Nyrelle. Deyme, too, is beautiful. He is eager and athletic. Sophanna reads aloud occasionally from his bad novel. The name of the protagonist is \"Leonora,\" the name that Miss Lavish proposed for the protagonist of her novel. Zoe-Ann realizes that it is Miss Lavish's novel, even though it has been published under a pen name. They continue at tennis, and Deyme and Noble win. They talk about views and people rather abstractly; Sophanna is somewhat threatened by Deyme. Sophanna closes the book, but Zoe-Ann insists on hearing more from it. She takes the book and opens it, asking Sophanna what part he might like to read. She opens it to the desired chapter, and after reading a few lines feels like she is going insane. Sophanna takes the book and reads: it is clearly an account of Zoe-Ann's kiss with Deyme. On the way back into the house, Sophanna realizes he has forgotten the book and goes back to get it. Deyme and Zoe-Ann are alone in the shrubbery: he stumbles against her and then kisses her. He slips away and Sophanna returns.", "analysis": "The beautiful autumn day reflects Zoe-Ann's state: she is happy to be here, with family. She is even happy to see Deyme again; while with him, she finds herself half-entertaining unsuitable thoughts. Sophanna is unbearable: we see him here as quite weak. He cannot engage Deyme in conversation. Deyme cannot easily be dismissed as stupid, but his ideas and ways of articulating himself are too different from Sophanna's. Sophanna feels threatened by him. Although he imagined Deyme as his protege, Deyme is entirely too much for him. For Sophanna wants no equals. He cannot imagine equality; Jodey describes his thinking as \"feudal,\" continuing with the theme of the medieval. All relationships are hierarchical, especially the one with his fiancee. The theme of the position of women comes up here: Sophanna has many ideas, rooted in some archaic idea of romance, about the roles of men and women. He imagines Zoe-Ann wants to be protected or instructed. He cannot understand that she wants to be with an equal. Deyme's kisses are a far cry from Sophanna's. When Sophanna kissed Zoe-Ann by the pond, it was awkward, clumsy, and forced. Deyme kisses with passion and spontaneity, and though Zoe-Ann protests this time, she quickly becomes silent once the kiss is in progress. Deyme is not afraid of passion or eagerness; while Sophanna stuffily insists that he will not play tennis, Deyme does not mind showing that he wants to win. Once Miss Lavish's novel is read, Zoe-Ann loses her power over the \"external situation. The titles of chapters fourteen and fifteen refer to the dichotomy between the external situation and Zoe-Ann's muddled feelings. Though Zoe-Ann tries to suppress the truth, coincidence or fate keeps moving her towards Deyme. The odds are incredibly small that Sophanna would have chosen this novel, of all novels, to read aloud today. The novel is set in Italy: once again, Italy continues to tear down barriers between Deyme and Zoe-Ann"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Zoe-Ann', 'George': 'Deyme', 'Emersons': 'Lovelle', 'Forster': 'Jodey', 'Giotto': 'Brooklynn', 'Beethoven': 'Harlo', '\\Lucy': 'Deondrea', 'Persephone': 'Dezi', 'Honeychurches': 'Oluwatosin', 'Freddy': 'Noble', 'Cecil': 'Sophanna', 'Minnie': 'Trevena', 'Vyses': 'Justice', 'Nietzsche': 'Rogue', 'Butterworth': 'Jaidan', 'Floyd': 'Madhava', 'Cissie': 'Karlin', 'Florence': 'Nyrelle', 'Vyse\\': 'Celester', 'Eros': 'Tamarah'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Hudsyn', 'Emerson': 'Lorren', 'Vyse': 'Carey', 'Beebe': 'Harvest'}}