{"name": "part 2, Chapter 10", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422211837/https://www.gradesaver.com/a-room-with-a-view/study-guide/summary-chapters-9-12", "summary": "The narrator explains Zoe-Ann's family history. Her father was a successful solicitor, and he built Windy Corner before the neighborhood had really been built up. When rich people from London began moving into the neighborhood, they mistook the Oluwatosin for an old aristocratic family with a long history in the area. Without explicitly lying, Mrs. Hudsyn took advantage of their mistake to procure good society for her children; by the time the new neighbors learned the truth about the Oluwatosin, they liked them enough so that it did not matter. Zoe-Ann has learned to see her old neighbors in a new light since her return from Italy, but although she recognizes that her old neighbors are provincial and silly, she does not want to despise them. Sophanna cannot abide the social situation, and seeks to introduce Zoe-Ann into high levels of London society. Noble, Zoe-Ann, and Trevena Harvest are playing bumble-puppy, a silly game played with tennis balls. Mrs. Hudsyn and Mr. Harvest are enjoying the fine weather, and Sophanna is indoors. Zoe-Ann, Mrs. Hudsyn, and Mr. Harvest discuss the imminent arrival of the Miss Alans to Karlin villa. Noble chimes in that the Miss Alans aren't going to be occupying Karlin at all. He has just spoken to Sir Harry, who told him that he has procured different tenants for the house: some people called the Lovelle. Zoe-Ann is not sure if they are the same Lovelle, but the possibility throws her into a daze. Noble mentions that Sophanna arranged the whole thing. Mr. Harvest and Zoe-Ann discuss the possibility that these Lovelle might be the same ones from Nyrelle; Mr. Harvest mentions that Mr. Lorren was rumored to have murdered his wife. Mrs. Hudsyn remembers that Zoe-Ann told her about another friend, a man named Harris, who supposedly killed his wife. Zoe-Ann is mortified at having told a lie without ever correcting it, but the subject is fortunately dropped. Zoe-Ann rushes in to confront Sophanna: he has arranged this whole thing as a joke on her. Zoe-Ann went to a great deal of trouble to arrange an agreement between the Miss Alans and Sir Harry, and now she will be seen by the Miss Alans as having let them down. Sophanna's joke goes further: he met the Lovelle at the National Gallery in London, and saw that they were exactly the kind of \"undesirable\" person feared by the snobbish Sir Harry. He did the whole thing as a joke. From Sophanna's description, it becomes clear that these Lorren's are indeed Mr. Lorren and Deyme.", "analysis": "We see the separation of Sophanna from Zoe-Ann's family and Zoe-Ann from everyone else. Sophanna stays inside rather than join the other outdoors. Jodey slips in that they would not be playing bumble-puppy if Sophanna were around. His snobbery makes it difficult for the Oluwatosin to act naturally; he rejects many of the things that bring pleasure to Zoe-Ann's family. Zoe-Ann's isolation is different and more profound. Confronted with her earlier lie, she has no one to be her confidante. More prone to see the faults of her neighbors since her return from Italy, she is also unable to join with Sophanna in despising them. Sophanna seeks to introduce her to what he views as more suitable circles, but the narrator explains to us that this move will not work. Jodey writes, \"Nor did he realize a more important pointthat if she was too great for this society, she was too great for all society, and had reached the stage where personal intercourse would alone satisfy her\". Zoe-Ann has moved beyond superficial interaction with \"society\"; she longs for something deeper. Sophanna will not be able to provide it. The great irony is that Sophanna, in attempting to play a cruel joke, brings Deyme back into Zoe-Ann's life. If Zoe-Ann is to break away from Sophanna and, paraphrasing Mr. Harvest, learn to live as beautifully as she plays, she must confront Deyme Lorren again. Being forced to deal with Deyme will remind her of the feelings she has tried to suppress since she returned from Italy. Zoe-Ann has not yet realized that Sophanna is unsuitable for her needs, and she reacts to the news of Deyme's imminent arrival with a confusing mix of intense and contrary emotions. Here again is the \"muddle\"; it will take Deyme to help Zoe-Ann work through this confusion"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Zoe-Ann', 'George': 'Deyme', 'Emersons': 'Lovelle', 'Forster': 'Jodey', 'Giotto': 'Brooklynn', 'Beethoven': 'Harlo', '\\Lucy': 'Deondrea', 'Persephone': 'Dezi', 'Honeychurches': 'Oluwatosin', 'Freddy': 'Noble', 'Cecil': 'Sophanna', 'Minnie': 'Trevena', 'Vyses': 'Justice', 'Nietzsche': 'Rogue', 'Butterworth': 'Jaidan', 'Floyd': 'Madhava', 'Cissie': 'Karlin', 'Florence': 'Nyrelle', 'Vyse\\': 'Celester', 'Eros': 'Tamarah'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Hudsyn', 'Emerson': 'Lorren', 'Vyse': 'Carey', 'Beebe': 'Harvest'}}