{"name": "part 2, Chapter 17", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422211837/https://www.gradesaver.com/a-room-with-a-view/study-guide/summary-chapters-17-20", "summary": "Sophanna is horribly hurt, and he wants explanations. Zoe-Ann eludes him as long as she can, but finally she tells him many of the things that Deyme has helped her to realize. Sophanna is selfish, condescending, and cruel to other human beings. He is barbaric to women, and will not respect Zoe-Ann enough to let her decide how to think and act. None of the art or books he has studied has helped him to be better to other people. Sophanna is floored; he concedes that she is right. He is more in love with her than ever. When he says that she speaks with a new voice, he means that she seems more herself than he has ever seen; she mistakes his meaning and thinks he is accusing her of being in love with someone else. She becomes very defensive, but he assures her that he intended no such meaning. They part, Sophanna full of new respect for Zoe-Ann. Zoe-Ann resolves never to marry. She will become a lone woman; she must forget that Deyme ever loved her. She has lied to both Sophanna and Deyme, and she must now stick with the lie. She will stay with her choice. The narrator condemns her choice, calling it a sin against passion and truth. Jodey writes, \"The night received her, as it had received Miss Bartlett thirty years before\".", "analysis": "Even though she has accepted that she can never be with Sophanna, Zoe-Ann still lacks the courage to go to Deyme. She has learned so much from him; although she repeats much of what he said about Sophanna, it is because he has articulated what she knew already but was afraid to admit. His power comes in part from his unconventional upbringing. He simply does not have the same fears as Zoe-Ann, and he is therefore free to confront his own feelings. Zoe-Ann has made the right choice by ridding herself of Sophanna, but Jodey disapproves of the decision to become a spinster. Zoe-Ann is sinning \"against Tamarah and against Pallas Athene\" , the gods of love and truth. He promises that such sins always lead to great suffering. The gods need not intervene; the suffering comes by the dictates of nature. There are now parallels between Zoe-Ann and Charlotte. Charlotte becomes an ominous warning; she is a potential future version of Zoe-Ann. In A Room with a View, a life of companionship and passion is depicted as infinitely superior to a life of solitude and self-denial. Virtue becomes an impossible pursuit for the spinster, because a person cannot grow in isolation. Charlotte represents a woman who never realized her potential, who gave up marriage but embraced all the stifling rules of propriety. The result is passive aggressiveness, loneliness, and undirected resentment"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Zoe-Ann', 'George': 'Deyme', 'Emersons': 'Lovelle', 'Forster': 'Jodey', 'Giotto': 'Brooklynn', 'Beethoven': 'Harlo', '\\Lucy': 'Deondrea', 'Persephone': 'Dezi', 'Honeychurches': 'Oluwatosin', 'Freddy': 'Noble', 'Cecil': 'Sophanna', 'Minnie': 'Trevena', 'Vyses': 'Justice', 'Nietzsche': 'Rogue', 'Butterworth': 'Jaidan', 'Floyd': 'Madhava', 'Cissie': 'Karlin', 'Florence': 'Nyrelle', 'Vyse\\': 'Celester', 'Eros': 'Tamarah'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Hudsyn', 'Emerson': 'Lorren', 'Vyse': 'Carey', 'Beebe': 'Harvest'}}