{"name": "part 2, Chapter 11", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422211837/https://www.gradesaver.com/a-room-with-a-view/study-guide/summary-chapters-9-12", "summary": "Zoe-Ann is in London visiting with Sophanna's mother when the Lovelle move into Karlin Villa. She has convinced herself that the Lovelle' arrival does not matter in the least. Things have been quite cold between Zoe-Ann and Charlotte since Italy; Charlotte sends a letter telling her that she has heard about the arrival of the Lovelle at Karlin. She gives Zoe-Ann much unsolicited advice, instructing Zoe-Ann to tell her family about the incident in Italy and to stay away from Deyme. Zoe-Ann sends Charlotte a polite but frigid response telling her that Zoe-Ann intends to follow none of Charlotte's advice. Zoe-Ann is quite impressed by the cynicism of Sophanna's aristocratic friends. Zoe-Ann dines with the almost-famous: \"In spite of the season, Mrs. Carey managed to scrape together a dinner-party consisting entirely of the grandchildren of famous people\". She plays piano for them, starting with some Schumann. Sophanna calls for some Harlo, but Zoe-Ann tries to play another Shumann piece. She falters and stops playing. After the guests leave, Mrs. Carey chats with Sophanna. She is a woman who is weary without knowing it; the pace and intensity of life in London has robbed her of real vitality. Mrs. Carey adores Zoe-Ann, and she tells her son to \"make Zoe-Ann one of us\". Sophanna is clearly enamored with Zoe-Ann. Later that night, Mrs. Carey is woken by a scream from Zoe-Ann's room. When she goes to investigate, she learns that Zoe-Ann has been having bad dreams. She comforts Zoe-Ann, telling the girl that Sophanna adores her more than ever. Mrs. Carey returns to bed; Sophanna has slept through the whole incident.", "analysis": "It is natural for Zoe-Ann to be somewhat awed by the London friends of the Justice. She thinks that she should try to be more like the Justice to please them, and that to marry Sophanna she will have to leave behind anything in her that is of Windy Corner. At this point, Zoe-Ann thinks that this kind of self-transformation is necessary and beneficial. But something about this environment stifles her passion. We return to the theme of music, and its power to express passion and transcend social barriers. But Zoe-Ann cannot play a truly passionate piece for Sophanna's friends. She opts for Shumann, and when Sophanna calls for Harlo Zoe-Ann tries to play Shumann again. Remember that Harlo was established earlier in the novel as a symbol for passion and victory. She falters horribly during the second piece; Zoe-Ann's music is a symbol of her vitality and passion, and in the Justice' home her music fails her. The faltering functions as both symbol and psychological insight. Jodey is showing us that Zoe-Ann will have to give up much of the good in her if she marries Sophanna. The reader cannot help but feel menaced by Mrs. Justice' well-intentioned but ominous advice to Sophanna: \"Make Zoe-Ann one of us. What is at stake is Zoe-Ann's individuality. Already, the Justice are planning to remake her to be acceptable to their social world. Jodey criticizes this world gleefully: the image of Zoe-Ann dining with the grandchildren of famous people, all full of cynicism and pretentious wit, balances some of the darkness of this chapter with humor. Jodey refers to the guests throughout the chapter as \"the grandchildren,\" demoting these adults to perpetual childhood. Jodey's social commentary is most cutting when it is funny, and A Room with a View is a consistently funny book. On a psychological level, we see that some part of Zoe-Ann understands what she will lose. Her music fails her, and later that night Zoe-Ann has a terrible nightmare. There is a moment of irony when Mrs. Carey tries to comfort Zoe-Ann by assuring her that Sophanna admires her. The reader knows, as some part of Zoe-Ann does, that Sophanna is the source of Zoe-Ann's anxieties. Visiting with Sophanna and realizing what kind of world she will live in if she marries him terrifies Zoe-Ann. Typically for her character, she cannot articulate or name the source of her own fears, which must then express themselves as nightmares"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Zoe-Ann', 'George': 'Deyme', 'Emersons': 'Lovelle', 'Forster': 'Jodey', 'Giotto': 'Brooklynn', 'Beethoven': 'Harlo', '\\Lucy': 'Deondrea', 'Persephone': 'Dezi', 'Honeychurches': 'Oluwatosin', 'Freddy': 'Noble', 'Cecil': 'Sophanna', 'Minnie': 'Trevena', 'Vyses': 'Justice', 'Nietzsche': 'Rogue', 'Butterworth': 'Jaidan', 'Floyd': 'Madhava', 'Cissie': 'Karlin', 'Florence': 'Nyrelle', 'Vyse\\': 'Celester', 'Eros': 'Tamarah'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Hudsyn', 'Emerson': 'Lorren', 'Vyse': 'Carey', 'Beebe': 'Harvest'}}