{"name": "part 2, Chapter 6", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422211837/https://www.gradesaver.com/a-room-with-a-view/study-guide/summary-chapters-5-8", "summary": "The Reverend Arthur Harvest, the Reverend Cuthbert Eager, Mr. Lorren, Mr. Deyme Lorren, Miss Eleanor Lavish, Miss Charlotte Bartlett, and Miss Zoe-Ann Hudsyn Drive Out in Carriages to See a View; Italians Drive Them: The Italian driver of the carriage reminds Mr. Harvest of Phaethon, the reckless son of the sun god who mishandled the chariot of the sun and perished. The driver picks up a beautiful girl on the way up, and the girl reminds Mr. Harvest of Dezi, goddess of spring. Mr. Eager objects to the girl riding with the driver, but the ladies intercede on her behalf and the girl climbs aboard. This is the carriage that contains Mr. Eager, Zoe-Ann, Mr. Lorren, and Miss Lavish. Mr. Harvest, without consulting Eager, invited more people for the ride, and all of Charlotte's careful plans about seating arrangement were lost with the arrival of so many unexpected guests. The driver and his girl dally with each other up in the driver's seat; Mr. Eager's rides with his back to them, so he does not see them. Zoe-Ann looks on the ride as the workings of perverse Fate; she has tried unsuccessfully to avoid Deyme Lorren. She likes him, but he frightens her. The heart of their adventure was not the murder, but their intimate talk afterward, and Zoe-Ann is not sure what to make of it all. Mr. Eager dominates the conversation with talk of Italian artists and the villas that they pass on the way up. Mr. Lorren is fast asleep. Zoe-Ann watches the driver and the young girl with envy as they dally with each other in the front seat. The ride is quite bumpy. After a particularly violent lurch, Mr. Eager turns just in time to see the driver kiss the girl. He becomes furious. Mr. Lorren wakes, and argues on behalf of the driver. Mr. Eager becomes increasingly furious, until the poor girl gets down. Mr. Lorren is upset by what has happened; they have parted two happy people, which no man, he says, has the right to do. Finally, the carriage stops; it is time for a walk in the hills. Before long the party splits: the Lovelle try to make conversation with the drivers, the three women stay together, and Mr. Eager and Mr. Harvest go off in another direction. Charlotte and Miss Lavish are speaking in audible whispers about the Lovelle. They are mocking them because Charlotte asked Deyme about his profession, and he said, \"the railway. Zoe-Ann pipes up at one point, and then Charlotte and Miss Lavish demand that she go. Zoe-Ann is stubborn, \"only at ease amongst those to whom she felt indifferent,\" but they eventually force her away. Zoe-Ann goes to join the clergymen, but they are nowhere to be seen; she tries to ask the carriage drivers where Mr. Eager and Mr. Harvest are, but her Italian is very poor. All she can manage is \"Dove buoni uomini. The carriage driver lights up and escorts her to them. The hills are beautiful, and there are many violets. Zoe-Ann and her guide move through a wooded area for a while, but soon the Italian proudly announces that the good man has been found, and the woods give way. Zoe-Ann is standing on a little earth terrace, and the hillside is covered with violets. The view is splendid, and the terrace on which Zoe-Ann stands seems to be the source of the flowers. They run up and down the steep hillside like rivers of flowers. Zoe-Ann has found her \"good man,\" but it is not a clergyman. It is Deyme Lorren. He kisses her. Suddenly, they are interrupted by cries of \"Zoe-Ann. It is Charlotte; she has caught them.", "analysis": "Chapter Six is an extremely important chapter, and merits close examination. It is an excellent chapter to examine closely for papers on a wide range of topics. The allusions to Phaethon and Dezi help to establish Italy as a world separate from England. Here, the gods of the ancients still move among the hills. Mr. Harvest re-imagines the driver as Phaethon, still living, unchanged by the Age of Faith or the Age of Doubt. Neither Christianity nor the age of science and discovery that followed have removed Phaethon; Mr. Harvest's conception of the driver is a metaphor for the soul of Italy and its relationship with history. Some part of the Greek and Roman world has survived in Italy. The sensuality of Greek myths is quite different from English attitudes about the body. Mr. Eager's fury at the innocent kiss between the driver and the girl reveals a rift between English attitudes about sex and romance and the Italian view. The irony is that Mr. Eager lives in Nyrelle as a resident, and yet he seems as English and intolerant as ever. His world is still quite isolated from Italy; he has never allowed it to get under his skin. The theme of the experience of Italy and travel plays itself out in the reverse in closed-minded Brits like Eager. Mr. Lorren's argument with Mr. Eager drives this point home. Lorren speaks of a line from an Italian poet, which he quotes as \"Don't go fighting against the spring. Unable to resist showing his education and knowledge of Italian, Mr. Eager corrects him. The Italian is \"Non fate guerra al maggio,\" and a more accurate translation would be \"Don't war against May. Although Mr. Eager knows the Italian and the correct translation, Mr. Lorren is the one who understands the meaning of the poem. Eager speaks Italian, but he misses the point. By forcing the driver and the girl to part, Mr. Eager has warred against May; he has fought, without good cause, against the happiness of another. Mr. Lorren appreciates the beauty of being driven by two young and beautiful lovers; he talks about the irony of the British travelers riding up into the hills to see the Spring, while they reject Spring in human beings. Mr. Lorren firmly believes that shame about the human body is a source of great evil. One of the themes of the novel is the clash between propriety and passion. Passion and love are inhibited by the various anxieties the British have about sex and the human body, their regulation of behavior between the two genders, and their strict regulation of emotion. There are parallels between the driver and the Italian girl and Deyme and Zoe-Ann. Like the driver and the Italian girl, Deyme and Zoe-Ann will be separated by British stuffiness. Jodey reinforces the parallel by having the girl make a special plea with Zoe-Ann. Zoe-Ann wonders why the girl would make appeals to her, of all people; the function here is symbolic. The girl looks pleadingly into Zoe-Ann's eyes, and the experience is unsettling for Zoe-Ann. The scene connects the two women; Zoe-Ann will soon know what it is to be separated from the one you love. The theme of class snobbery comes up when Charlotte and Miss Lavish gossip about the Lovelle. Miss Lavish reveals the full extent of her hypocrisy when she laughs at Deyme Lorren's occupation with the railway. Although earlier she spoke of the nobility of humble people when she described the plot of her novel, she mocks Deyme because he works for a living. Zoe-Ann's misunderstanding with the carriage driver plays on the idea of \"good men. Zoe-Ann does not know the word for clergyman, so she tries to approximate the term by saying \"good men. But from the perspective of the drivers, \"good man\" would be the last term that applied to Mr. Eager. He heartlessly parted the driver from the young girl, over an innocent kiss. For the drivers, the good men would be the only members of the entire traveling party that have treated the drivers with real respect: the Lovelle. Closely connected to the theme of beauty is the theme of goodness: Zoe-Ann will have to arrive at new definitions for both of these qualities before the end of the novel. Once again, the landscape mirrors Zoe-Ann's state. There is a connection between the land/nature and man. The beautiful violets climb up and down the hillside, making the land seem like the soul of spring. Mr. Lorren's earlier comments about spring in the land and spring in humanity have already connected the two: here, Zoe-Ann stands on a terrace that looks like the fountainhead of all the violets. Jodey calls it the \"primal source where beauty gushed out to water the earth\". Earlier, Jodey made spring a symbol for young love by calling the young Italian girl Dezi; here, the violets and the incredible terrace provide the scenery for Zoe-Ann's first kiss with Deyme Lorren. Zoe-Ann and Deyme seem a part of this land during their kiss: spring around them, spring in their young feelings for each other. It is spontaneous and beautiful, but it is quickly cut short by someone who clearly does not belong in this setting. Jodey uses color as a metaphor for Charlotte's separation from this world: she \"stood brown against the view. The image is striking: Charlotte's dowdy brown dress stands in sharp contrast to the brilliance of the violets. The word choice is important. Against\" suggests conflict between Charlotte and this world of spring and young love, and Charlotte will prove a very difficult obstacle for Deyme and Zoe-Ann's relationship. In this last scene of the chapter, Jodey is playing again with the metaphor of the view. A view gives a perspective of another place; it suggests openness to the world and the acquisition of new perspective and knowledge. Significantly, Charlotte comes as an interloper into the view; the word choice is very specific. Charlotte consistently seeks to shelter Zoe-Ann from the experience of Italy. She restricts her freedom to go out and she tries to choose Zoe-Ann's company. She is an obstacle to the transforming aspect of travel, and she therefore stands in the way of Zoe-Ann's growth"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Zoe-Ann', 'George': 'Deyme', 'Emersons': 'Lovelle', 'Forster': 'Jodey', 'Giotto': 'Brooklynn', 'Beethoven': 'Harlo', '\\Lucy': 'Deondrea', 'Persephone': 'Dezi', 'Honeychurches': 'Oluwatosin', 'Freddy': 'Noble', 'Cecil': 'Sophanna', 'Minnie': 'Trevena', 'Vyses': 'Justice', 'Nietzsche': 'Rogue', 'Butterworth': 'Jaidan', 'Floyd': 'Madhava', 'Cissie': 'Karlin', 'Florence': 'Nyrelle', 'Vyse\\': 'Celester', 'Eros': 'Tamarah'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Hudsyn', 'Emerson': 'Lorren', 'Vyse': 'Carey', 'Beebe': 'Harvest'}}