{"name": "part 2, Chapter 19", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422211837/https://www.gradesaver.com/a-room-with-a-view/study-guide/summary-chapters-17-20", "summary": "Zoe-Ann and Mrs. Hudsyn meet with the Miss Alans at their hotel near Bloomsbury. They discuss making the final preparations for their trip to Greece. Zoe-Ann has still told no one of the end of the engagement; this leads to the Oluwatosin being forced to tell a few uncomfortable lies. After they leave the Miss Alans, Mrs. Hudsyn gets after Zoe-Ann about keeping the end of the engagement a secret. She cannot understand the reasoning behind it. Zoe-Ann cannot bring herself to tell the truth: she is afraid that if Deyme hears about the end of the engagement, he will confront her again. Mrs. Hudsyn is hurt. She thinks Zoe-Ann is leaving again simply because she is tired of Windy Corner. Zoe-Ann reminds Mrs. Hudsyn that next year the girl will come into her money. The reminder brings tears to Mrs. Hudsyn's eyes. Zoe-Ann speaks of moving to London and taking a flat with some other girls. Mrs. Hudsyn is upset by the idea. They continue to argue, and Mrs. Hudsyn says that Zoe-Ann is reminding her of Charlotte. Zoe-Ann is horrified by the idea, but sure enough, Zoe-Ann is beginning to sound like Charlotte. There is the same fussiness, the same worry in her words. They take the train home. On the carriage ride back from the station, Zoe-Ann sees that Karlin has been abandoned. Deyme and Mr. Lorren have left. Zoe-Ann and Mrs. Hudsyn stop to pick up Charlotte, who wants to go to church. While Mrs. Hudsyn and Charlotte go to services, Zoe-Ann decides to wait in Mr. Harvest's study. She goes in, and there sits Mr. Lorren, dozing quietly. They have moved out of Karlin, but Mr. Lorren has not yet left Surrey. Mr. Lorren has heard about the confrontation with Deyme; he now knows of all that has happened between Deyme and Zoe-Ann. Zoe-Ann tries to be standoffish at first, refusing to talk about Deyme. Mr. Lorren speaks about love, and the body, and Deyme's honesty. The man's honesty and forwardness disarm Zoe-Ann. He tells her that Deyme has \"gone under,\" just as his mother did. Finally, we hear the story of how Mr. Lorren \"murdered\" his wife. Because of his stand against organized religion, Mr. Lorren and his wife did not have Deyme baptized. When Deyme was twelve, he contracted typhoid. Mrs. Lorren feared it was divine retribution. While Mr. Lorren was away, Mr. Eager came and spoke with Mrs. Lorren. The clergyman fueled the fears Mrs. Lorren was having. Deyme was never baptized; Mr. Lorren stood firm. But even after Deyme recovered, Mrs. Lorren was never the same. She died soon afterward. This story is the basis for Mr. Eager's outrageous slander that Mr. Lorren murdered his wife \"in the sight of God. Deyme, Mr. Lorren says, will go on living. But he will not think life is worth the trouble. He is his mother's son. After Zoe-Ann left them in Nyrelle, Deyme became deeply depressed. It has happened again. Zoe-Ann is increasingly troubled, and Mr. Lorren tries to justify his son's actions while apologizing at the same time. She tries to convince him to stay at Karlin villa. She explains that she will be going to Greece; there is no need for them to move on her account. Greece leads to questions about Sophanna: Mr. Lorren assumes that Sophanna will accompany her. At first she tries to lie about it. Mr. Harvest enters suddenly, and talks with the two of them briefly. He mentions that Zoe-Ann is going to Greece with the Miss Alans, and then leaves. Now Zoe-Ann is caught in her lie, and she admits to Mr. Lorren that she is going without Sophanna. She tries to explain herself, but Mr. Lorren quickly grasps the truth. He tells her that she is in a muddle, and speaks of the importance of getting through it. And then he tells her that she loves Deyme. Zoe-Ann denies it at first, but Mr. Lorren continues to speak of Deyme and love. Deyme will be a comrade for her; he will be faithful and devoted. Mr. Lorren speaks of love and the beauty of passion, desire, and the body; Zoe-Ann is crying, terribly confused and frightened. She speaks of the ticket already bought, and the trust her family has in her, and the impossibility of backing out of Greece and all of her deceptions now. Mr. Lorren replies that Zoe-Ann no longer deserves their trust. She has deceived all of them. Mr. Harvest enters, hearing the last bit about trust. Mr. Harvest asks what they're talking about, and Mr. Lorren tells him that Zoe-Ann and Deyme are in love. Mr. Harvest is disgusted. Zoe-Ann tries to talk with Mr. Harvest, pleading for advice, but the clergyman has become very angry. He tells her to marry Deyme if she likes. Zoe-Ann now has a great battle before her: if she follows passion, she must tell her family about her hypocrisy. Mr. Lorren strengthens her with a final speech about the difficulties she will face. She will need to be strong. He finishes by telling her that she is fighting not only for Love and Pleasure, but also for Truth. On the carriage ride home, Zoe-Ann tells them the truth. She no longer is afraid of convention. She sees the beauty of passion and desire. Mr. Lorren's words have strengthened her.", "analysis": "The chapter title, \"Lying to Mr. Lorren,\" puts the reader in suspense. It continues the theme of the last three chapter titles, all of which are about Zoe-Ann's lies to the people around her. She deceives everyone, herself most of all, by refusing to admit that she loves Deyme. But because the reader is hoping that Zoe-Ann will finally tell the truth here , the title intensifies the suspense. Mrs. Hudsyn sees the danger of Zoe-Ann turning into Charlotte. And in this chapter, we do see signs of Zoe-Ann behaving a little like her cousin. Charlotte's fussiness and passive aggressiveness, as Jodey depicts them, are the results of repressing passion and living in solitude. Living alone is seen as inferior to companionship; even kindly, wise Mr. Harvest has limitations. He cannot understand passion, and when he learns the truth about Zoe-Ann's feelings, he reacts with disgust. The conversation with Mr. Lorren ties together many of the novel's important themes. It is the climax of the novel; Zoe-Ann finally wins the battle against her own self-deception. Mr. Lorren gives Zoe-Ann the courage to work through her muddle. Part of his power is his ability to ignore convention. He exists completely outside the world of propriety and cultivated manners. Although Jodey tells us that Mr. Lorren is a deeply religious man, he is against organized religion and his refusal to have Deyme baptized made him the target of Mr. Eager's slander. Because he has no respect or sense of these conventions, he can help Zoe-Ann to overcome them. The theme of the body and passion is here: Lorren earnestly defends the beauty of the body and desire. He also recognizes Zoe-Ann's muddle, and helps her to overcome it. The importance of being honest with oneself, an important theme of the novel, is one of Lorren's last arguments. Zoe-Ann must remain loyal to truth, or she will be unworthy of her loved ones. Propriety and repression, enemies of truth and passion, are overcome. To return to an earlier theme, Mr. Lorren helps Zoe-Ann to see, once and for all, that the delicate is not always the beautiful. To get her happiness, Zoe-Ann will have to fly in the face of delicacy"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Zoe-Ann', 'George': 'Deyme', 'Emersons': 'Lovelle', 'Forster': 'Jodey', 'Giotto': 'Brooklynn', 'Beethoven': 'Harlo', '\\Lucy': 'Deondrea', 'Persephone': 'Dezi', 'Honeychurches': 'Oluwatosin', 'Freddy': 'Noble', 'Cecil': 'Sophanna', 'Minnie': 'Trevena', 'Vyses': 'Justice', 'Nietzsche': 'Rogue', 'Butterworth': 'Jaidan', 'Floyd': 'Madhava', 'Cissie': 'Karlin', 'Florence': 'Nyrelle', 'Vyse\\': 'Celester', 'Eros': 'Tamarah'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Hudsyn', 'Emerson': 'Lorren', 'Vyse': 'Carey', 'Beebe': 'Harvest'}}