{"name": "part 2, Chapter 16", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422211837/https://www.gradesaver.com/a-room-with-a-view/study-guide/summary-chapters-13-16", "summary": "Zoe-Ann tries to suppress her feelings. She thinks that she must at all costs rid herself of Deyme and maintain her engagement to Sophanna. She calls for Charlotte, and confronts her with the events of the novel. Zoe-Ann has correctly deduced that Charlotte must have told Miss Lavish about the kiss in Nyrelle. Now, it becomes clear why Charlotte initially made Zoe-Ann promise not to tell anyone but later so adamantly insisted that Zoe-Ann should tell everyone. Charlotte told Miss Lavish and feared that the woman would prove indiscreet. Zoe-Ann hopes that Charlotte will step in and confront Deyme, as she did in Nyrelle, but Charlotte hems and haws until it becomes clear that it is up to Zoe-Ann. She asks Charlotte to be present while she does it. She tells Deyme, with Charlotte in the room, that he can never enter the house again. Deyme argues passionately with her: he tells her that he would not have tried anything if Sophanna were a different man. But Sophanna is abominable, good for talk of books and painting but not much else. He is unkind and \"should know no one intimately, least of all a woman\". Deyme pegged him as awful from the first day they met. He is always telling Zoe-Ann how to think, and what to be shocked by. Zoe-Ann responds that Deyme is now doing the same thing. Deyme admits that all men have some level of brutishness in them, and he has difficulty suppressing certain instincts, but he promises that he loves her in a deeper and more respectful way than Sophanna does. Men and women will have to fight these attitudes together. They continue to argue, with Deyme's pleas becoming more desperate. When it becomes clear that Zoe-Ann will not be moved, he leaves in despair. Charlotte commends Zoe-Ann for her courage. Zoe-Ann and Charlotte go back outside. She is suddenly aware that it is autumn, and she realizes that time is passing. She is seized by emotions she cannot articulate. Noble wishes to play doubles again. With Deyme gone, they need a fourth. Noble asks Sophanna, and Sophanna refuses with pomp. Zoe-Ann's reaction is sudden: \"The scales fell from Zoe-Ann's eyes. How had she stood Sophanna for a moment. He was absolutely intolerable, and the same evening she broke off her engagement\".", "analysis": "The theme of convention versus passion is important here. For Zoe-Ann to refuse Deyme, she must fight her own feelings. She calls on Charlotte to support her campaign; Charlotte embodies convention and adherence to stifling propriety. Jodey makes her a spinster, and it has symbolic resonance. This world of primness and repressed emotion is sterile; its other symbol is Sophanna, who is compared repeatedly to a celibate medieval statue. The world of convention does not have the same potential for growth and new life. But Zoe-Ann is not yet brave enough to follow passion. Deyme's comments do not seem to move Zoe-Ann, but she cannot help but agree with parts of what he says. He is right about Sophanna; Carey should know no one intimately. Though educated, he is in many ways a fool. His name, \"Carey,\" is another one of Jodey's loaded names. Celester" is a corrupted form of \"wise\": Sophanna's knowledge is a poor copy of true wisdom. He is attached to controlling and teaching Zoe-Ann; he is convinced that people have nothing to teach him. For these reasons, he cannot grow. He is sterile, as sexless and incapable of new growth and movement as a Gothic statue. Deyme speaks passionately about women. The way Zoe-Ann's two men treat women develops the important theme of woman's position and relations between the sexes. Deyme wants Zoe-Ann to be independent, to have her own thoughts, to play teacher as well as student. Sophanna wants to possess Zoe-Ann. He is in love with an idea of woman, and he will constantly be trying to reshape Zoe-Ann into that idea after they get married. He is too uptight to do the small favor of providing a fourth for doubles. His participation would make a game possible, but he is too selfish and self-absorbed to bother with the fun of others. This final refusal is the last straw, and Zoe-Ann at last sees that Sophanna is an unbearable man"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Zoe-Ann', 'George': 'Deyme', 'Emersons': 'Lovelle', 'Forster': 'Jodey', 'Giotto': 'Brooklynn', 'Beethoven': 'Harlo', '\\Lucy': 'Deondrea', 'Persephone': 'Dezi', 'Honeychurches': 'Oluwatosin', 'Freddy': 'Noble', 'Cecil': 'Sophanna', 'Minnie': 'Trevena', 'Vyses': 'Justice', 'Nietzsche': 'Rogue', 'Butterworth': 'Jaidan', 'Floyd': 'Madhava', 'Cissie': 'Karlin', 'Florence': 'Nyrelle', 'Vyse\\': 'Celester', 'Eros': 'Tamarah'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Hudsyn', 'Emerson': 'Lorren', 'Vyse': 'Carey', 'Beebe': 'Harvest'}}