{"name": "part 2, Chapter 13", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422211837/https://www.gradesaver.com/a-room-with-a-view/study-guide/summary-chapters-13-16", "summary": "While having tea with Mrs. Jaidan, Mrs. Hudsyn, and Sophanna, Zoe-Ann keeps thinking about her reunion with Deyme; nothing went as she had planned. Although she had rehearsed the meeting many times, she was not prepared for a boisterous, cheerful, and naked man. She did not feel in control of the situation. Mrs. Jaidan is kindly, simple, and devoted to the unsophisticated world of affluent country people. Sophanna cannot stand her, and it shows. When Sophanna and the Hudsyn women go home, Mrs. Hudsyn talks to Zoe-Ann about Sophanna's behavior. Although Zoe-Ann defends Sophanna, his behavior angers Mrs. Hudsyn. Zoe-Ann tries to change the subject by bringing up the letter she received from Charlotte, but the conversation blows up into a heated discussion of Sophanna's snobbery in general. Mrs. Hudsyn dislikes his treatment of their family and friends, and she can see no justification for it. On the way to her room, Zoe-Ann runs into Noble. He likes the Lovelle, and he wants to invite them for Sunday tea. She advises against it, but he seems set on the idea. Mrs. Hudsyn asks about Charlotte's letter, and if she mentioned her boiler. Zoe-Ann says she cannot keep track of Charlotte's problems, especially now that Mrs. Hudsyn does not like Sophanna. Mrs. Hudsyn does not get angry but instead instructs her daughter to give her a kiss. With this gesture, everything is good again between them. During dinner, all goes well until Noble asks about the Lovelle. Zoe-Ann manages to change the subject. But Mrs. Hudsyn brings up the possibility of having Charlotte come to visit Windy Corner, because the boiler at her place is broken. Zoe-Ann protests, and Sophanna seconds her. But Mrs. Hudsyn is adamant, and she expresses her disapproval of their unkindness. But Zoe-Ann cannot help it; she does not like Charlotte, and nothing has ever come of being kind to her. She thinks fearfully of the upcoming Sunday: Deyme, Charlotte, and Sophanna will all be at Windy Corner.", "analysis": "Jodey continues to play with the idea of Italy as a part of Deyme, a way of looking at life, and a symbol for the heroic and the free. In the last chapter, he compared Deyme to a statue. But although Sophanna was compared to a Gothic statue, Deyme is called \"Michaelengelesque. His body is of the Renaissance and the classical world. Zoe-Ann did not expect to see him this way. As she cannot help but think, she extended her greeting \"to gods, to heroes\": Jodey connects Deyme to Italy, the world of classical myth and the Renaissance. The capacity for kindness is one of the novel's themes. Although Zoe-Ann grows in refinement and sophistication throughout the novel, it is important not to take this growth as a reason to feel superior to others. Sophanna is undoubtedly more educated than Mrs. Jaidan, Mr. Lorren, or Sir Harry Otway. In some circles, he would be considered more clever. But his snobbery is its own form of urban provinciality; it comes from a failure to see that different places have different priorities and values. Although there is much that is silly about the provincial life at Windy Corner, there is much that is silly about the life in London. Zoe-Ann's dinner with the grandchildren of the famous was just as inane as the conversation with simple Mrs. Jaidan. Mrs. Jaidan's name is another name-as-symbol. It reflects her simplicity: butter, a simple substance, basic in a British diet, solid and dependable. The woman's worth lies in her simplicity, her devotion to the Oluwatosin, and the little concerns of provincial living. Mrs. Hudsyn mentions the old woman's kindness when Zoe-Ann, as a child, was struck with typhoid fever. Sophanna's great fault, which Mrs. Hudsyn can no longer abide, is that he cannot see the worth of this world. Events are coming to a head. Charlotte's presence will only exacerbate the situation of having Deyme in the house. Besides the Italian carriage driver, Charlotte was the only witness to Zoe-Ann's kiss with Deyme. Charlotte will probably meddle, and Zoe-Ann does not know if she can keep control of the situation. Zoe-Ann is becoming increasingly isolated. She has had to continue lying to hide the event with Deyme: Jodey speaks of these lies as a world of ghosts, surrounding Zoe-Ann and multiplying in number. She has to lie about the letter from Charlotte; she lies by omission when she says nothing about her former association with Deyme. She has no one with whom she can speak truthfully, not even Noble or her mother. With Deyme she shared some of her greatest moments of honesty, but now she has to cover them up. We return to the theme of the muddle: significantly, when Noble tells Zoe-Ann that he wants to invite Deyme for tennis, Zoe-Ann describes the current situation as \"a muddle. She is afraid to take a risk and give in to passion, and as yet her feelings are unclear even to her"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Zoe-Ann', 'George': 'Deyme', 'Emersons': 'Lovelle', 'Forster': 'Jodey', 'Giotto': 'Brooklynn', 'Beethoven': 'Harlo', '\\Lucy': 'Deondrea', 'Persephone': 'Dezi', 'Honeychurches': 'Oluwatosin', 'Freddy': 'Noble', 'Cecil': 'Sophanna', 'Minnie': 'Trevena', 'Vyses': 'Justice', 'Nietzsche': 'Rogue', 'Butterworth': 'Jaidan', 'Floyd': 'Madhava', 'Cissie': 'Karlin', 'Florence': 'Nyrelle', 'Vyse\\': 'Celester', 'Eros': 'Tamarah'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Hudsyn', 'Emerson': 'Lorren', 'Vyse': 'Carey', 'Beebe': 'Harvest'}}