{"name": "part 2, Chapter 20", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422211837/https://www.gradesaver.com/a-room-with-a-view/study-guide/summary-chapters-17-20", "summary": "Jodey tells us that the Miss Alans did go to Greece, and beyond. They ended up going around the whole world. But they went without Zoe-Ann. We are again in the Pension Bertolini, with Zoe-Ann and Deyme. They are in Zoe-Ann's old room; Deyme insists it was his, but Zoe-Ann remembers that she took old Mr. Lorren's room. She corrects him. His errors only endear her more to him. They play with each other as newlyweds do. Zoe-Ann has a letter from Noble; the people of Windy Corner, with the exception of Noble, continue to be angry with her about her past hypocrisy. They do not approve of the match with Deyme. Mr. Harvest and Mrs. Hudsyn are both quite angry. Zoe-Ann and Deyme courted throughout the autumn and the winter. It is now spring, and, lacking Mrs. Hudsyn's consent, they have now eloped and gone off to Italy. Zoe-Ann thinks about how many unlikely events have led to their happiness. If Charlotte had seen Mr. Lorren in the rectory that day, she would not have allowed Zoe-Ann to go in. Mr. Lorren and Zoe-Ann would never have talked, and Zoe-Ann would have gone off to Greece. But Deyme insists that Charlotte did know. His father told him that when he was dozing by the fire, he woke and saw Miss Bartlett walking away. Zoe-Ann does not know what to make of it. Deyme suggests that Charlotte wanted Zoe-Ann to meet with Mr. Lorren; somehow, deep down, she wanted Deyme and Zoe-Ann to end up together. Deyme has read the book by Miss Lavish, and details of it are taken straight from Deyme and Zoe-Ann's time in Nyrelle. Something about the affair touched her, and though she fought against it, in the end, at the last moment, she helped them. Zoe-Ann initially says it is impossible, but then, after reflection, believes that it might be true.", "analysis": "We return to Italy. The chapter is entitled \"The End of the Middle Ages. We leave behind the Gothic, the sterile, the sexless, the severe. Historically, the end of the Middle Ages came with the beginning of the Renaissance, time of new knowledge, growth, and beauty. Italy was the heart of the Renaissance. Jodey uses the well-known paradigm of European history as a model for his heroine's growth. From the muddle of England, she has arrived at new clarity. She is now with Deyme, and before them they have many years of growth, love, and learning. A Room with a View is social commentary, but even at his most critical Jodey treasures human beings. It is characteristic of his vision that Charlotte, sternest opponent of the love between Deyme and Zoe-Ann, in the end turns out to be the instrument of their reconciliation. She fought them on the surface but hoped for them deep down. The beauty of people can be seen in all of the important characters of the novel; Jodey allows even Charlotte to have her moment of grace"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Zoe-Ann', 'George': 'Deyme', 'Emersons': 'Lovelle', 'Forster': 'Jodey', 'Giotto': 'Brooklynn', 'Beethoven': 'Harlo', '\\Lucy': 'Deondrea', 'Persephone': 'Dezi', 'Honeychurches': 'Oluwatosin', 'Freddy': 'Noble', 'Cecil': 'Sophanna', 'Minnie': 'Trevena', 'Vyses': 'Justice', 'Nietzsche': 'Rogue', 'Butterworth': 'Jaidan', 'Floyd': 'Madhava', 'Cissie': 'Karlin', 'Florence': 'Nyrelle', 'Vyse\\': 'Celester', 'Eros': 'Tamarah'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Hudsyn', 'Emerson': 'Lorren', 'Vyse': 'Carey', 'Beebe': 'Harvest'}}