{"name": "part 2, Chapter 7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422211837/https://www.gradesaver.com/a-room-with-a-view/study-guide/summary-chapters-5-8", "summary": "There is a sense of bewilderment in the group as they gather for the return voyage. Everyone lost track of everyone else, and the picnic was clearly a failure. Deyme Lorren decides to walk back alone. Mr. Eager rides with Zoe-Ann and Charlotte, while the others ride in the second carriage. There is a lightning storm on the way down, and Mr. Lorren is sick with fear about Deyme. At one point, Mr. Eager gets out of the carriage. Alone, Charlotte shares her concerns about people finding out about Zoe-Ann's kiss with Deyme. She bribes the driver to keep silent. While the party is stopped, lightning strikes the overhead wires of the tramline at a spot farther up the road. A great support falls; if the party had not stopped, someone might have been hurt. Zoe-Ann is particularly unnerved by this experience. She clings to Charlotte, appreciating her cousin anew and trying to repent of her actions with Deyme. But the thought that he might be hurt in the storm undermines her repentance; her concern for him makes it difficult to focus on feeling bad for what she has done. Zoe-Ann tries to explain that the violets and gods and heroes had something to do with it, but Charlotte does not seem to understand. After the near-accident, Zoe-Ann clings to the idea that she and Charlotte are close companions of the heart. Zoe-Ann longs to tell Charlotte about all of the ideas and feelings she has been having since she has been in Italy; she waits eagerly for time alone with Charlotte back at the pension. But at the pension, Charlotte trades stories with Miss Alan for an interminably long time. Finally, Zoe-Ann and Charlotte retire to their rooms. But Charlotte is in no mood to talk about feelings: she demands to know what they shall do about Deyme. Zoe-Ann is taken aback; that seemed the least important thing to talk about. She has no idea what to do or even what to think, but Charlotte dominates the conversation. They will pack up and leave for Rome in the morning. Charlotte makes Zoe-Ann promise not to tell anyone, even her mother, what happened. Zoe-Ann packs in a daze. In the hallway, Deyme passes by; Zoe-Ann wants to say goodbye to him, but she is still in her room when Deyme is intercepted in the hall by Charlotte. Charlotte takes him to the drawing room to speak with him; Zoe-Ann does not know what is said. She is \"in a muddle,\" and hates the feeling. Charlotte returns, but does not tell her what she said to Deyme. In the morning, the two women leave for Rome.", "analysis": "For some time, Zoe-Ann has not been sure what to think of her own feelings and thoughts. Italy and the Lovelle have exposed her to a whole new world, one that in some ways stands in opposition to everything she has been taught. The confusion of growing up is referred to repeatedly throughout the novel as \"a muddle. This \"muddle,\" the disorientation that comes with becoming wiser and challenging everything that one has been taught, is one of the themes of the novel. Deyme experienced it by the river. The murder put him into a muddle; his emotional response to the man's death forced him to re-evaluate his childish pessimism and unhappiness. Zoe-Ann is in a muddle now. But she does not have the chance to sort through her feelings, because Charlotte takes control of the situation and tells her what she needs to feel and think. Zoe-Ann's isolation is evident here: she longs for an intimate talk with Charlotte, clinging to the belief that she and her cousin can really be soul mates. But Charlotte disappoints her terribly, and the hurt is going to have long-term effects. Jodey writes, \"Never again did she expose herself without due consideration and precaution against rebuff. And such a wrong may react disastrously upon the soul\". Because of this hurt, Zoe-Ann becomes even more isolated"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Zoe-Ann', 'George': 'Deyme', 'Emersons': 'Lovelle', 'Forster': 'Jodey', 'Giotto': 'Brooklynn', 'Beethoven': 'Harlo', '\\Lucy': 'Deondrea', 'Persephone': 'Dezi', 'Honeychurches': 'Oluwatosin', 'Freddy': 'Noble', 'Cecil': 'Sophanna', 'Minnie': 'Trevena', 'Vyses': 'Justice', 'Nietzsche': 'Rogue', 'Butterworth': 'Jaidan', 'Floyd': 'Madhava', 'Cissie': 'Karlin', 'Florence': 'Nyrelle', 'Vyse\\': 'Celester', 'Eros': 'Tamarah'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Hudsyn', 'Emerson': 'Lorren', 'Vyse': 'Carey', 'Beebe': 'Harvest'}}