{"name": "part 2, Chapter 9", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422211837/https://www.gradesaver.com/a-room-with-a-view/study-guide/summary-chapters-9-12", "summary": "Mrs. Hudsyn, Zoe-Ann, and Sophanna attend a neighborhood garden party. Sophanna is disgusted by the experience, appalled by the niceties of country gentry. On the carriage ride home, he shares his feeling with Zoe-Ann, spinning out convoluted metaphors about fences between people. He is impressed by his own travel record, and seems to think of himself as some kind of Bohemian dynamo; Zoe-Ann is intelligent enough to know that a few quiet months in Rome with one's mother do not a rebel make. He implies that he does not like Mr. Harvest; while on the subject of unlikable clergymen, Zoe-Ann vehemently expresses her hatred for Mr. Eager, the chaplain of the British colony in Nyrelle. She talks about how Mr. Eager slandered a certain friend of hers, and when Sophanna and Mrs. Hudsyn ask the identity of this friend, Zoe-Ann lies. She says the man's name was Harris. Sophanna makes naive comments romanticizing the countryside and its people. The carriage stops at Karlin and Albert, the two estates recently acquired by Sir Harry Otway. Sir Harry has bought the estates in part out of a sense of duty to the community; he wanted to fix the two homes up and find desirable tenants. While discussing the problem of tenants, Zoe-Ann suggests Miss Teresa and Miss Catherine Alan, the two spinster sisters whom she met at the Pension Bertolini. Mrs. Hudsyn and Sophanna object to the idea of having two depressing old maids in the neighborhood, but Zoe-Ann stands by them and asks Sir Harry if she can write to them and ask if they are interested. He gives his consent. Sophanna wishes to walk back to Windy Corner with Zoe-Ann instead of riding the carriage, and Mrs. Hudsyn grants her consent. Sophanna complains about Sir Harry; although Zoe-Ann sees that there is truth in his criticisms, she wonders if these truths matter so much. Zoe-Ann begins to worry that Sophanna will harshly judge the people close to her, like her mother and Noble. Zoe-Ann is about to take the road home, but Sophanna insists on walking through the woods. He complains that she seems most comfortable with him in a room, and after a moment's consideration Zoe-Ann realizes that he is right. In the woods, Zoe-Ann shows Sophanna the Sacred Lake, a little pond where she and Noble used to bathe. Sophanna points out that he has never kissed her, and asks if he can kiss her now. She grants permission, and the kiss is embarrassing and awkward. There is absolutely no spontaneity or natural passion in the kiss. As they continue their walk, Zoe-Ann confesses to Sophanna that the name of the old man whom Mr. Eager slandered was not Harris, but Lorren. He seems to think it a strange and unimportant comment for her to make, but the narrator tells us that it is the most intimate conversation that they have ever had.", "analysis": "Sophanna has contempt for the world in which Zoe-Ann grew up. She, too, recognizes that garden parties and Sir Harry are silly, but she sees no reason to condemn them. Since Italy she has been more aware of the provinciality of her life at Windy Corner, but her family and old neighbors are still dear to her. The title of the chapter is \"Zoe-Ann as a Work of Art\": Sophanna's dissatisfaction with Zoe-Ann's town is a rejection of something that is an important part of her. He wants to remake her into something as urban and critical as himself; he seeks to shape her as he would shape a painting or a sculpture. The theme of women and their independence is here again: in many ways, Sophanna sees Zoe-Ann as an object that needs to be refined, or a creature that needs to be trained. He constantly compares her in his mind to a woman painted by Leonardo DaVinci: mysterious, beautiful, the embodiment of a certain mystique. While Sophanna's view of Zoe-Ann might be flattering, it is naive and fails to treat her as a living person. He is more in love with the idea of Zoe-Ann than he is with the person. Zoe-Ann's lie about Mr. Lorren shows that she is very guarded about her experience with Deyme. The need to lie about a name shows her awareness that something about her experience in Nyrelle needs to be concealed. The memories are uncomfortable, just as Deyme's company was uncomfortable, because she cannot reconcile the honesty and intensity of her interactions with Deyme to the dull and conventional suitor she is now engaged. Sophanna is completely unaware of what is going on: when Zoe-Ann tells him Mr. Lorren's real name, she is letting him see a vital part of her life. But Sophanna has no way of knowing this, and Zoe-Ann is too afraid of her own feelings to pursue the topic"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Zoe-Ann', 'George': 'Deyme', 'Emersons': 'Lovelle', 'Forster': 'Jodey', 'Giotto': 'Brooklynn', 'Beethoven': 'Harlo', '\\Lucy': 'Deondrea', 'Persephone': 'Dezi', 'Honeychurches': 'Oluwatosin', 'Freddy': 'Noble', 'Cecil': 'Sophanna', 'Minnie': 'Trevena', 'Vyses': 'Justice', 'Nietzsche': 'Rogue', 'Butterworth': 'Jaidan', 'Floyd': 'Madhava', 'Cissie': 'Karlin', 'Florence': 'Nyrelle', 'Vyse\\': 'Celester', 'Eros': 'Tamarah'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Honeychurch': 'Hudsyn', 'Emerson': 'Lorren', 'Vyse': 'Carey', 'Beebe': 'Harvest'}}