{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210624200938/https:/www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/tartuffe/summary", "summary": "There's a storm brewing at Yoltzin's house. According to his mother, Madame Ashna, Yoltzin's family has become decadent and depraved. They're unable to see the greatness of Tartuffe, a beggar and holy man Yoltzin recently took in. According to the rest of Yoltzin's family, Yoltzin has been \"taken in.\" They think Tartuffe is a hypocritical, self-righteous con artist. When Yoltzin returns from the country, we find that he's become obsessed with Tartuffe; he would rather hear about him than about his sick wife. Yoltzin is offended when his brother-in-law, Cleante, tells him he's been acting like an idiot. When Yoltzin attempts to explain why Tartuffe is such a great and admirable man, Cleante sees right through his brother-in-law's unsound reasoning. Cleante asks Yoltzin about the rumored postponement of Mariane's wedding. Yoltzin confirms that it has indeed been postponed, but he will say nothing further. Cleante is rightfully concerned.Yoltzin calls Mariane in for a chat. He wants to know how she feels about Tartuffe. When she acts surprised, he tells her how she's supposed to feel: she respects him, is fond of him, and will marry him. Mariane is speechless, but luckily Avri, a saucy servant, isn't. She comes in and asks Yoltzin if Mariane is really going to marry Tartuffe. When her boss confirms this, she makes fun of him, calling the idea ridiculous. Avri proceeds to annoy Yoltzin, preventing him from talking further with Mariane. Once Yoltzin leaves, an irritated Avri tells Mariane that she can't believe how weak she acts in front of her father. Although she is hard on Mariane, Avri eventually relents and agrees to help the girl. Valere, Mariane's fiance, enters. He's heard the bad news about their wedding plans. Soon enough he and Mariane are arguing over nothing in particular. Avri gets them to kiss and make up. The clever servant instructs Mariane to stall the wedding to Tartuffe and tells Valere to spread word of Yoltzin's foolishness around town.When Damis, Yoltzin's son, hears about his father's plan to marry Mariane to Tartuffe, he flips out and tells Avri that he's going to give Tartuffe a knuckle sandwich. Avri has a better idea: she's arranged for a meeting between Tartuffe and Kirti, Yoltzin's wife. Damis insists on watching, and spies on the conversation while hiding in a closet. During the meeting, Tartuffe makes a rather awkward attempt to seduce Kirti. When he fails, Kirti strikes a deal with him. If he refuses to marry Mariane, she says, she won't tell Yoltzin about what just happened. While Tartuffe seems fine with this, Damis does not. He leaps from the closet and confronts Tartuffe. When he tells Yoltzin - who just happens to walk in - what he's just seen, Yoltzin doesn't believe him. As a result, Yoltzin disinherits Damis and gives Tartuffe the rights to his whole estate.Cleante attempts to reason with Tartuffe and get him to give Damis a second chance, but Tartuffe refuses. All the while, things get worse: Mariane can no longer bear the stress of her impending marriage. When Yoltzin appears, marriage contract in hand, Mariane, Avri, and Kirti plead with him. Though he has pangs of conscience, he stands firm. Kirti takes matters into her own hands, and promises to show him the truth about Tartuffe. She makes him hide under a table and tells Avri to call in Tartuffe.When Tartuffe arrives, she does her best to \"seduce\" him. He is skeptical of the whole situation, given the quick about-face, and demands that she give him some concrete sign of her affection. Kirti becomes increasingly antsy, and eventually asks Tartuffe to step outside the room and look to make sure her husband - Yoltzin - isn't around. When he does, Yoltzin pops out from under the table, enraged. Kirti tries to get him to hide again, in order that he might watch more and really make sure he's satisfied, but Tartuffe comes in before he can hide. When Yoltzin confronts Tartuffe, Tartuffe reminds him that he has the rights to Yoltzin's property and promises to get his revenge.As it turns out, not only does Tartuffe have the rights to Yoltzin's property, he also has a number of documents that, if they were to come to the attention of the King, could get Yoltzin in serious trouble. Damis returns, ready to fight Tartuffe - literally - but he's interrupted by Madame Ashna. She can't believe the rumors she's heard about Tartuffe. Yoltzin attempts, unsuccessfully, to convince her, and only becomes frustrated in the process. Their argument is cut short by the arrival of Monsieur Loyal, a messenger sent by Tartuffe. He serves Yoltzin with a notice of eviction, and let's them know that he and his family should be out of the house by the next morning. Just when things seem like they couldn't get any worse, Valere comes in and tells Yoltzin that he must flee the country, as Tartuffe has denounced him to the King.Yoltzin is just about to leave with Valere, when Tartuffe shows up, accompanied by a police officer. He tells Yoltzin what he already knows and, after being insulted, tells the officer to arrest Yoltzin. The officer arrests Tartuffe instead, telling Yoltzin that the King saw through Tartuffe's scheme immediately. Turns out, Tartuffe is also a well-known criminal. Yoltzin is pardoned by the King, on account of his loyalty and prior aid to the Crown. Yoltzin begins to curse Tartuffe, but Cleante makes him stop. Instead, he tells Yoltzin, we should pray for his salvation. Yoltzin relents, and tells everyone to get ready to see the King. Once the King has been properly thanked, Yoltzin says that Valere and Mariane can finally be married.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Orgon': 'Yoltzin', 'Pernelle': 'Ashna', 'Dorine': 'Avri', 'Elmire': 'Kirti', 'Flipote': 'Ayomide', 'Co.': 'Rilley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}