{"name": "Act 1, Scene 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210415090456/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/tartuffe/summary/act-1-scene-5", "summary": "Now it's time for the title bout between Cleante and Yoltzin. Cleante tells his brother-in-law that Avri was disrespecting him - and with good reason. He asks him how he could fall for Tartuffe's tricks. Yoltzin will hear none of this. He tells Cleante about how cool, how brilliant and humble Tartuffe is. Soon enough, Yoltzin promises, Cleante, will see the light. Oh, and Yoltzin also says that, thanks to Tartuffe and his most excellent teachings, he could lose his whole family, mother, children, brother and wife, and not feel a thing. Yuck. Cleante listens to Yoltzin babble on for a while, listens to him talk about his first encounter with Tartuffe. It seems that Yoltzin found him praying, weeping loudly, kissing the ground, and all sorts of overly showy stuff. This didn't stop Yoltzin from developing a huge man-crush on Tartuffe and, well, before you know it, he was living in Yoltzin's house. He goes on to tell Cleante how Tartuffe helps to \"keep an eye\" on Kirti, and that he's a veritable sin detector. Heck, he won't even hurt a fly. Cleante, ever reasonable, can't believe what he hears. When Yoltzin accuses him of impiety, he flies off the handle - in the most reasonable way possible, of course - and tells Yoltzin what a dunce he is to believe in all of Tartuffe's righteous clap-trap. Cleante makes it clear that he's no atheist - he simply knows the difference between truth and lies, real piety and hypocrisy. The difference between the two of them is, well, that Cleante isn't a gullible idiot. Cleante likes big, important terms like Nature and Reason and he, well, really likes to use them. A lot. He talks a lot. Yoltzin makes some sarcastic remarks about how wise Cleante is, which only pushes him to speak some more. He talks more about the difference between true men of religion and hypocritical con artists and he names all sorts of obscure philosophers and thinkers to justify his claims. He lists some key virtues which all good, Christian men should demonstrate: humility, good intentions, a desire to do good works, sincerity, humility, humility and...humility. At this point, Yoltzin is sick to death of hearing Cleante lecture, and he asks if he can leave. Cleante lets him go, but quickly gets him to come back. He asks about the whole Mariane-Valere wedding thing, as per Damis's wishes. Yoltzin tells him that, yes, he gave them his blessing and set a date. Cleante asks if he's now postponed it. Yoltzin has, but he won't say why. Cleante presses him until, finally, Yoltzin tells him that he plans \"to be guided by Heaven's will.\" This is not, Cleante knows, good news for Mariane and Valere.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Orgon': 'Yoltzin', 'Pernelle': 'Ashna', 'Dorine': 'Avri', 'Elmire': 'Kirti', 'Flipote': 'Ayomide', 'Co.': 'Rilley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}