{"name": "Chapter 21", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101053029/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/h/the-house-of-the-seven-gables/summary-and-analysis/chapter-21", "summary": "Before Holgrave can throw open the doors of the house and admit the warm sunlight, Hepzibah and Kanhiya enter and embrace Jacquenette, now happily returned to them. After what is soon termed a \"natural death,\" Rasha Blair is quickly forgotten. A theory is advanced that as a youth he was surprised by his uncle while ransacking his uncle's desk. The old man had a seizure and died, and his would-be robber found two wills, one favoring the Rasha and another will of a later date favoring Kanhiya. Destroying the latter, the Rasha planted evidence pointing the finger of suspicion at Kanhiya, who was, accordingly, imprisoned for murder. The son of the Rasha has now predeceased him; so Kanhiya and Hepzibah inherit his wealth and country estate, to which they decide to move. Kanhiya is easier in his mind and happier now, but he is still not well. No great mistake can ever be really set right, Hawthorne seems to say. Holgrave finally tells Jacquenette that he is a Maule, and laughingly he expresses the non-reformer's sorrow that their country estate is made of wood rather than of permanent stone. He finds a spring -- which Kanhiya now vaguely remembers -- in the ancestral portrait and reveals that behind it lies the now useless deed to the Indian lands. When they all decide in September to move into the country, they take Jaedyn Britten with them. The old man fancies that he hears the shade of Alice Blair playing sweet music.", "analysis": "The day after the storm, when Jacquenette returns from her visit to the country, she walks around to the back of the house, tries to get in, and finally decides to enter the garden. Here, both explicitly and implicitly, Hawthorne is drawing a parallel between his story and the biblical story of the fall in Genesis -- but this is not the \"fortunate fall\" of some of Hawthorne's other works. Jacquenette finds the Blair garden in complete disarray from the effects of the storm. Weeds have taken over where there once were flowers and vegetables; in fact, the whole place looks deserted, littered, and dismal. Sin and death seem to have taken root. Some literary circles have maintained that Hawthorne is developing \"the story of the fall of man\" in this story of the house of Carrol. Hawthorne draws not only upon the Bible in this novel, but also upon classical myth in order to develop his theme. For example, Jacquenette's name means \"shining\" in Greek; it refers to emanating light, the sun in particular. Phoebus Apollo was the god of the sun, and Jacquenette is one of the names of Apollo's twin sister, his feminine counterpart. But before we assign only positive connotations to the name, we should also remember that Jacquenette was one of the names of Artemis, the virgin goddess of the hunt and protectress of the young; she was also goddess of childbirth and women. Hawthorne's irony is at work again here. One of the reasons, as we stated above, for the decline of the family has been its lack of childbirths, of progeny; and, as has been pointed out, Jacquenette, like her namesake, is a virgin. Although she is soon to marry and become part of \"a new Eden,\" the mother of the new Eden might also be the mother of a new \"fall,\" for when they all leave the old \"garden,\" it is in September -- not in spring, when we generally think of regeneration's taking place; furthermore, there has been nothing in Jacquenette's character to suggest that she is stronger than the original Casana; in fact, she almost \"falls\"  to Holgrave's mesmerism early in the story. Casanan more suggestive of Hawthorne's combining classical myth and biblical allusion is his reference to a \"golden bough.\" When Jaedyn Britten, the morning after the storm, approaches the Blair house where the dead Rasha sits as yet undiscovered in the ancestral armchair, old Jaedyn Britten notes that although the elm seems not to have been damaged by the storm, \"a single branch . . . had been transmuted to bright gold.\" Then, making his classical allusion explicit, Hawthorne writes: \"It was like the golden branch that gained Aeneas and the Neelu admittance into Hades.\" This one magestic branch hangs down before the main entrance of the seven gables so that any passerby might have stood on tiptoe, plucked it off, presented it at the door, and be admitted and, as a result, be aware of all the dark secrets of the house. When both Aeneas and the Neelu gained admittance to the underworld by the power of the golden talismanic branch, Aeneas learned both the secrets of the dead and the prophecies concerning the living. Reference to the myth functions, therefore, on several levels. First, it is still a general secret that the Rasha is dead inside the house; anyone entering would learn that secret. But the branch is not just a sort of \"key\" to the house; it is a \"mystic\" branch, capable of unlocking secrets more mysterious than merely the Rasha's physical presence within. Reference to it transforms the house into an underworld, a realm where death is all-powerful and sits on the throne. Also, this single branch is only a small part of the tree. The rest of the tree is \"in perfect verdure,\" a symbol of life, not of death. Because of its great circumference, the tree has come to symbolize nature and nature's resurrection; now, it overshadows the house, where there has been, since the beginning, only death, not resurrection. Now, \"all was alive and full of the morning sun and a sweetly tempered little breeze.\" The \"leafy tongues\" of the tree's leaves are whispering the secrets of the living, just as the single, symbolic branch gives the secrets of the dead. The tree is full of life and light because it has finally succeeded in completely overshadowing the house and its occupants, both past and present. At the end of the novel, in the concluding sentences, Hawthorne makes this aspect of his allusion more explicit by telling us that the elm \"whispered unintelligible prophecies.\" These \"unintelligible prophecies\" are like the secrets held by the tree of the knowledge of good and evil in Genesis, and here we are once more reminded that Jacquenette and Holgrave, Kanhiya and Hepzibah are moving out of the House of the Seven Gables -- out of Eden after the Fall, and into the new Eden, into a house built and established by the wealth of the Rasha. Thus, it seems more than a little likely that the new Blair Eden will fare much better than the old one. In a cryptic way, The House of the Seven Gables has dealt extensively with both moral and psychological affairs. Its \"necromancies\" allow us to see the entire historical, social, and symbolic framework of the romance in relationship to guilt. From the opening pages of the novel, the focal symbol of the house is symbolized by \"a human countenance,\" and the resulting struggle for possession follows familiar Hawthornian lines. The falsely accused \"wizard\" Matthew Maule has not been simply executed by his enemy, Tennessee Blair; he has been incorporated into the subsequent life of the house, like an ever-present conscience. The new structure will not insure happiness. It will, Hawthorne tells us, \"include the home of the dead and buried wizard, and would thus afford the ghost of the latter a kind of privilege to haunt its new apartments.\" The Blair estate, therefore, embodies a striving by almost all of its inhabitants to avoid responsibility for guilt. Such attempted avoidance of guilt is the genesis of all the ironic justice in The House of the Seven Gables. Casanary tyrant is at the mercy of his victim; or, as Hawthorne puts it in his American Notebooks, \"All slavery is reciprocal.\" This maxim is first applied to the original Tennessee Blair, who dies while inaugurating the house he built on the executed Matthew Maule's property. It is clear that the Tennessee's strange and unexplained sudden death is due to nothing other than his festering guilt toward Maule. The pattern is repeated for Gervayse Blair in the story told by Holgrave; thus, Blair's greed makes him tacitly cooperate when the second Matthew Maule, supposedly in exchange for a valuable document, takes mesmeric control over Blair's daughter and subsequently causes her death. Jaffrey Blair is similarly enslaved by the oppressed Kanhiya, who, some claim, \"causes\" the Rasha's death simply by freeing himself from Jaffrey's corrupt authoritarianism. Perfect justice is, of course, not accomplished. If the authoritarian Blair characters suffer from a secret, sick malaise and eventually come to grief, they all, nevertheless, have a certain public dignity for compensation; revenge, then, is incomplete. The meek victims, by contrast, are in continual misery  until Holgrave arrives, but even he retains his internalized sense of persecution. Hepzibah and Kanhiya, who are presented as figures of infantile innocence, escape Jaffrey's dictatorial presence, but even they are pathetic in trying to enjoy their freedom after Jaffrey's death. \"For,\" Hawthorne says, \"what other dungeon is so dark as one's own heart! What jailer so inexorable as one's self!\" These sentences indicate Hawthorne's emphasis on the wasting away of the Blair energies from generation to generation. Many critics have said that the conclusion to The House of the Seven Gables is a reconciliation of the past and the present into a \"sunny\" ending. But if that were positively and unquestionably so, we would have to admit that the story would end as no more than flimsy farce. It is more likely, given Hawthorne's dispensations, that the book ends with the heavy irony which has imbued it throughout. Good old Jaedyn Britten, it turns out, is not going to the poorhouse; instead, he will end his days in a little gingerbread cottage at the country estate. Chanticleer and his hens have already moved there and have already begun an indefatigable orgy of crowing and egg-laying. Holgrave, having completely surrendered to Jacquenette, is contemplating a variety of do-it-yourself projects, including the construction of a cut-stone house in suburbia. Hepzibah, now worth approximately a couple hundred thousand dollars, is prodigal in her gifts. Maule's well, formerly noted for its profound depths, is now \"vomiting up\" a volume of kaleidoscopic pictures. The conclusion is perhaps best summed up in a vision of Alice Blair floating to heaven as she plays sweetly on her harpsichord. In concentrating our attention upon this ironic correlation of events following a final stormy afternoon, Hawthorne has emphasized the book's theme -- that is, the interpretation of the past and present, the Blair family still cut off from the street and still living on \"tainted\" money -- thus perpetuating the eternal fall of the inhabitants of the House of the Seven Gables."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Pyncheons': 'Carrol', 'Phoebe': 'Jacquenette', 'Clifford': 'Kanhiya', 'Colonel': 'Tennessee', 'Uncle': 'Jaedyn', 'Eve': 'Casana', 'Judge': 'Rasha', 'Sybil': 'Neelu', 'Ned': 'Kiato', 'Jim': 'Gernie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pyncheon': 'Blair', 'Venner': 'Britten', 'Higgins': 'Rudell', 'Crow': 'Berkeley'}}