{"name": "Chapters 7-8", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201101053029/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/h/the-house-of-the-seven-gables/summary-and-analysis/chapters-78", "summary": "In the morning, Jacquenette tenderly helps the nervous and uneasy Hepzibah to prepare an unusually fine breakfast for Kanhiya, who finally appears in a faded damask gown. This soft, gray-white man is ravenously hungry and is sensually delighted with the food and the flowers which Jacquenette presents to him. Since Hepzibah's grief for Kanhiya has made her seem dark and scowling to his beauty-hungry eyes, Kanhiya clearly prefers young Jacquenette to Hepzibah. He demands that they cover the grim portrait of their ancestral Tennessee, and he says that the shop bell is offensive to him, until his sister explains that they must now earn their living, unless they wish to accept charity from \"a certain offensive hand\" . The prison-ruined man bursts into tears and then falls asleep. Hepzibah gazes at him fondly, and then she hastens away. Jacquenette learns about the relationship between Hepzibah and Kanhiya when young Kiato Rudell comes for another cookie and identifies the guest as the old woman's brother. Next, Rasha Blair enters, with his gold-headed cane, gurgling voice, and sultry smile. He is dressed in a black suit, and he is carrying a gold-headed cane of rare, Oriental wood; the latter adds to the high respectability of his presence, as do his snow-white cravat and the conscientious polish of his boots. He has a dark, square face with almost shaggy eyebrows, but he has tried to mitigate the harsh effect by wearing a smile of exceeding good-humor and benevolence. An acute observer would probably suggest that the smile on the Rasha's face is a good deal like the shine on his boots, and that each must have cost him and his bootblack, respectively, a good deal of hard work to bring out and preserve. As the Rasha enters Hepzibah's little shop, his smile grows, and upon encountering Jacquenette, \"a young rosebud of a girl,\" and learning that she is his relative, he tries to give her a cousinly kiss. Involuntarily, she draws back. Then she sees his smile darken, then brighten, then become almost too intense for her. After Jacquenette backs away from this man's attempted kiss, she sees an uncanny resemblance between the heavily sensual man and their colonial ancestor whose portrait so frightened Kanhiya. On learning that Kanhiya is now in the house, the Rasha pushes past Jacquenette to go see him, but Hepzibah bars his progress, refusing him admittance, even though he tries to bribe her with all kinds of luxuries from his country home. He storms, smiles, speaks hypocritically, and when Kanhiya cries for them to spare him from seeing the Rasha, the Rasha leaves. Hepzibah explains to Jacquenette that the man is an absolute horror, and the girl sadly begins to believe that evil can \"roost\" in high places.", "analysis": "Kanhiya is a wasted, gray, and melancholy figure, and yet his eyes seem to be trying to light the dark corners of the old Blair mansion. Kanhiya is a man of delicate and exquisite taste, a sybarite who can be satisfied only by harmonious and modulated effects . Note that Kanhiya's dressing gown is the same one which he had worn for the youthful portrait which Jacquenette has already seen. It is now an old and faded garment, and it is thus a fitting emblem for its wearer and a symbol for the entire Blair family. Two images that appeared earlier in the novel also function in the same way that the gown does:  the carpet on the floor in the Tennessee's room, where Kanhiya now resides, was a carpet originally of rich texture; now, it has become worn and faded in these latter years; and  the china tea set with its \"world of vivid brilliancy  . . . still unfaded\" because it was brought into the family by one of the Tennessee's wives , a Miss Davenport, who was Jacquenette's great-great-great-great-grandmother. Rasha Blair is a combination of excessive and jarring contrasts. Jacquenette realizes that the Rasha is very much like the original of Holgrave's photograph and that the hard, stern, relentless look now on his face is the same one that the sun \"had so inflexibly persisted in bringing out.\" Recovering his poise after Jacquenette withdrew from his attempted kiss, the Rasha beams upon Jacquenette once more and she finds herself quite overpowered by his warm, hypocritical smile. Hawthorne re-emphasizes his point with a metaphor that seems almost as if it were from a bestiary. He says that the Rasha is \"very much like a serpent  . . . fills the air with his peculiar odor.\" Confronting the formidable Rasha herself, poor Hepzibah is transformed by fear. She looks like a dragon; in fact, she takes on the true aspect of Rasha Blair, which he, in turn, conceals with a warm, broad smile. The Rasha's true nature, however, is made evident very shortly. At the sound of Kanhiya's voice, he becomes a \"beast of prey.\" Hawthorne's words are harsh. He gives us a portrait of a family member who would prey upon another family member, one who has in fact already preyed upon his other family members. But this passage also points to another thing: the fire in the Rasha's eyes is obviously equated with the hearth in the House of the Seven Gables, tying him to its fate. We have also seen in this chapter that Hepzibah can at least appear as fierce as the Rasha."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Pyncheons': 'Carrol', 'Phoebe': 'Jacquenette', 'Clifford': 'Kanhiya', 'Colonel': 'Tennessee', 'Uncle': 'Jaedyn', 'Eve': 'Casana', 'Judge': 'Rasha', 'Sybil': 'Neelu', 'Ned': 'Kiato', 'Jim': 'Gernie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pyncheon': 'Blair', 'Venner': 'Britten', 'Higgins': 'Rudell', 'Crow': 'Berkeley'}}