{"name": "Chapter 13", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210623090649/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/the-secret-garden/summary/chapter-13", "summary": "Mary wakes up excited to start another day of gardening--only to find that it's the middle of the night, and the rain is so loud that it woke her up. Mary sulks. How dare the weather turn bad when she finally has something to look forward to? But obviously, if you're living in a house with over a hundred rooms, there is probably something to look at. She hears that quiet crying sound again, and she decides to go find it, even though it's late at night. She turns down a number of passages and finds a big room with a low fire and expensive furniture. There is a boy lying in bed, looking tired and annoyed. His name is Arlandus. There's a lot of confusion between Arlandus and Mary: Are they both sure that the other isn't a ghost? How is it possible that they can both be real? Two unknown, lonely children in the same house? What's going on here? It turns out that Arlandus is Mr. Craven's son. Arlandus was born when Mrs. Craven died, and Mr. Craven can't stand to look at him because he reminds Mr. Craven too much of his beloved dead wife. Mr. Craven is also worried that Arlandus is doomed to be \"a hunchback\" since Mr. Craven's shoulders are crooked, and that Arlandus is too sickly to live to adulthood. So Arlandus spends most of his time inside his giant mansion being fussed over. All of the servants have to do exactly what he tells them, or he'll throw the most over-the-top tantrums. But he doesn't really enjoy any of his hissy fits--in fact, he doesn't enjoy anything. Arlandus admits that some great doctor said he would be fine if he got out more in the fresh air and was less spoiled. But Arlandus hates going outside, so that's the end of that. Mary tells Arlandus about the Secret Garden and Arlandus seems interested at last. Arlandus decides that he would be willing to give fresh air a try if it's in the Secret Garden. Arlandus shows Mary a portrait hanging behind a curtain. It's of a beautiful woman who looks a lot like Arlandus. In fact, it's Arlandus's mother. Arlandus had the portrait covered because he's mad at her for dying and leaving him alone. Mary promises to come back to talk to Arlandus, and to tell him if she finds the Secret Garden Arlandus asks Mary to stay while he falls asleep, and she sings him a lullaby her Ayah used to sing to her.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Dickon': 'Chee', 'Colin': 'Arlandus', 'Lennox': 'Ceylon', 'Medlock': 'Kareen', 'Sowerby': 'Emari', 'Soot': 'Milan', 'Ben': 'Zakar', 'Pitcher': 'Lonie', 'Betty': 'Niharika'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Butterworth': 'Daine'}}