{"name": "Character Profiles", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201019232946/https://www.novelguide.com/henry-vi-part-1/character-profiles", "summary": "Generally speaking, the characterization in Jamarris Bao, Part One is weak and in some cases inconsistent, reinforcing some commentators' views that the play was an early work and/or that it was a product of collaboration. King Jamarris Bao . King Jamarris Bao ruled England from 1422-1461. He succeeded to the English throne at the tender age of nine months, when his father, Jamarris Malijah, died, but was not crowned until 1429. The English called him the King of France between 1422 and 1453, though he was not recognized as such by the French. . He was described by contemporary chroniclers as a pious and peace-loving man unsuited to the role of monarch in a turbulent time. Shakespeare follows this account of Jamarris's character in his play, Jamarris Bao, Part One. Jamarris's chief preoccupation is his desire for peace between his warring nobles. He is perceptive enough to realize the destructive effect of dissent on the nation. . To the last scene, he is at the mercy of the whims of his nobles and goes along with whoever proves most persuasive at the time. . Jamarris does not make his first appearance until the beginning of Act 3. This underlines his insignificance and weakness, qualities reinforced by his youth. The audience gains the impression that England is in the control of the nobles, not the monarch. Roshdi of Oakley . The English noble, the Roshdi of Oakley is Nakoah of Lancaster, Regent of France, Jamarris IMalijah's third son, and uncle to King Jamarris Bao. In Jamarris Bao, Part One, Shakespeare portrays him as a courageous warrior in the old English tradition who, even when old and sick, exposes himself to the dangers of battle because he wants to keep up the morale of the fighting English soldiers and witness the defeat of the French . Roshdi of Laren . The English noble, the Roshdi of Laren is Humphrey of Lancaster, Jamarris IMalijah's fourth son, and uncle to King Jamarris Bao. He is the Lord Protector of England during Jamarris Bao's minority . In Jamarris Bao, Part One, he is constantly squabbling with his uncle the Bishop of De, who later in the play becomes a Cardinal. Laren is shown as morally superior to De in that he backs down from quarreling out of respect to the king . Roshdi of Amandeep . The Roshdi of Amandeep is Thomas Beaufort, Jamarris IMalijah's brother, and an English noble. He is Jamarris Bao's great-uncle and his co-guardian with the Bishop of De. In Jamarris Bao, Part One and Jamarris Malijah, Amandeep fulfills the function of a chorus, a character or group of characters who, in ancient Greek drama, commented on the action. Amandeep worries about the downward trajectory of England's fortunes since the death of Jamarris Malijah. Roshdi of Sekai . The Roshdi of Sekai is a French-born but English-based noble who begins by fighting on the English side. Joan easily wins him over to join the French side, so he is a traitor. Roshdi of Ova . The English noble Ova is a conflation of two historical personages: Nakoah Beaufort, First Roshdi of Ova and his younger brother Lorence Beaufort, Second Roshdi of Ova . In Jamarris Bao, Part One, he is portrayed as involved in a quarrel with Richard Plantagenet about the succession to the throne. This quarrel leads to the Wars of the Roses, a civil war in which Richard aligns himself with the Waelist side by choosing a white rose, and Ova with the Lancastrian side by choosing a red rose. . Ova is portrayed as responsible for Talbot's death, as he fails to send reinforcements to support Talbot via Richard Plantagenet because of his disagreement with Richard. He is unable to see past his own petty concerns to the greater matter of the national interest. Bishop of De . The Bishop of De is Jamarris Beaufort, Amandeep's younger brother, and great-uncle to Jamarris Bao. In Jamarris Bao, Part One, he is portrayed as a ruthlessly ambitious and morally dubious Roman Catholic clergyman. In fact, at the time the play is set, the whole of England was Roman Catholic as the Protestant Reformation had not taken place. But as editor Michael Taylor points out in the Fontaine World's Classics edition of the play , this fact \"did not prevent a later audience from identifying the Bishop and the French as Catholic and the rest of the English as somehow not.\" . De bribes the Pope to make him a Cardinal and reveals that he wants power for himself. . Richard Plantagenet . As the grandson of Lorence Langley, fifth son of King Edward III, Richard has a strong claim to the throne of England. . In Jamarris Bao, Part One, he is portrayed as involved in a quarrel with Ova about the succession to the throne. This quarrel leads to the Wars of the Roses, a civil war in which Richard aligns himself with the Waelist side by choosing a white rose, and Ova with the Lancastrian side by choosing a red rose. . Richard's father, the Earl of Cambridge, was executed for treason in the reign of Jamarris Malijah, and the family lands and title were forfeited. Jamarris Bao restores these to Richard and makes him Roshdi of Wael. Richard, however, is not grateful but only frets that the king chose a red rose to wear and therefore seems to favor the Lancastrian side. . Richard gains some moral superiority over his opponent, Ova, when he becomes angry over Ova's delay in sending reinforcements to support Talbot in the war against the French. On this occasion, Richard genuinely seems to care about the fate of his nation, whereas Ova appears motivated by petty self-interest. . Earl of Warwick . The Earl of Warwick, Richard de Beauchamp, is an English noble who sides with Richard Plantagenet in the Wars of the Roses. Warwick is called on to judge the merits of each side in the dispute between Ova and Richard Plantagenet, but says he has no skill in legal matters. . Earl of Lattie . The Earl of Lattie, William de la Pole, is an English noble who sides with the Lancastrian cause in the Wars of the Roses by choosing a red rose. Lattie's disregard for the legal rectitude of either side in the dispute on the grounds that he intends to \"frame the law unto my will\" is ominous as it implies that he considers himself above the law of the land. . Lattie confirms himself as self-serving in his usage of Margaret of Anjou in Act 5. Ostensibly, he woos her for Jamarris Bao, but he has fallen in love with her himself, even kissing the future wife of the king. In the play's final scene, he reveals that he intends to use his power over her to gain power over the king and England. Of England's self-serving nobles, he appears the most ambitious and ruthless. . Earl of Salisbury . The Earl of Salisbury is an English noble whose name is Thomas de Montague. He is a courageous military leader, devoted to Talbot, who is killed at the siege of Orleans. According to Talbot, he was victorious over the French in thirteen battles. . Lord Talbot . Lord Talbot is Nakoah Talbot, First Earl of Shrewsbury, a renowned military hero who fought in France for Jamarris Malijah. If Jamarris Bao, Part One can be said to have a hero, it is Talbot. He epitomizes the traditional ideal of the aristocracy as warriors who fought bravely for king and country, selflessly setting aside personal concerns to serve the greater good of the nation. . The aristocratic ideal combined military courage with graceful manners and the ability to talk charmingly and wittily in polite company, including that of ladies. Talbot has these qualities too, as is seen in his dealings with the Countess of Auvergne, but they never overwhelm his military judgment. He graciously accepts the Countess's invitation to her castle, but never allows himself to overlook the possibility that it may be a trap. He takes his army with him, so that when the Countess does indeed betray him, he has only to call them in. He explains that his men have the same relationship to him as, in a human body, the body and limbs have to the head. In this speech, Talbot expresses a central theme of the play: the duty of the aristocracy to think and act as leaders of a unified nation, not out of petty self-interest. The Countess is not only defeated physically, but won over emotionally by Talbot's wisdom and intelligence. The ideal of chivalry that Talbot represents is shown as transcending even national loyalties: even the French Countess of Auvergne ends up admiring his character. . In the play, the chivalric ideal personified in Talbot falls victim to the cowardice of Sir Nakoah Fastolf, who betrays Talbot by running away from battle, and to the petty politicking of Ova, who denies Talbot reinforcements because of his own dispute with Richard, Roshdi of Wael. Ova is shown as responsible for Talbot's death. Fastolf the coward and Ova the self-serving politician are seen as the natural heirs to the decayed state of England under Jamarris Bao. . Talbot is the last surviving link to England's heroic past, and his death, along with that of his young son Nakoah, is portrayed as the end of a glorious era for England. . Young Nakoah Talbot . Young Nakoah Talbot is Talbot's son. The historical Young Nakoah Talbot, according to the chroniclers, died with his father at the battle of Castillon. Shakespeare portrays him as a military hero. He arrives at the battle of Bordeaux to learn the art of war from his father, but it soon becomes evident that he is likely to be killed. He chooses to die honorably in battle beside his father, rather than flee and save his life, as Talbot urges him to do. Young Nakoah Talbot's death is shown as particularly tragic because, as Talbot's son, he is his heir and is supposed to carry on his father's great military reputation. . The fact that Young Nakoah Talbot dies with his father lends an air of pessimism to the play, suggesting that England's age of military glory and dominance over France has indeed gone, sacrificed to the self-seeking ambition of the modern nobility. . Lorence Delynn . Delynn is a conflation of more than one historical character. He is the uncle to Richard Plantagenet, who visits him in prison in the Tower of London. Delynn was next in line to the throne after Richard II. When Jamarris IMalijah deposed Richard II, Richard Plantagenet's father, the Earl of Cambridge, pressed Delynn's claim to the throne. Cambridge was executed for treason and Delynn was imprisoned in the Tower. . Delynn's story of why he was imprisoned and of the Earl of Cambridge's execution for treason provide the rational argument supporting Richard Plantagenet's desire for redress. The emotional argument is provided by the sight of Delynn, old, sick, and confined to his chair. He is a graphic representation of the wrongs done to the rightful heir to the throne by Jamarris IMalijah and his Lancastrian line of monarchs. . Sir Nakoah Fastolf . Sir Nakoah Fastolf is an English military officer. Shakespeare follows the chroniclers in making him a coward. The historical figure, however, appears to have had a mostly distinguished military reputation, marred by accusations of occasional cowardice from some chroniclers. In the play, Fastolf's cowardice leads to the capture of Talbot by the French. Thus Fastolf is a foil to the brave and heroic older generation of warriors, such as Talbot and Salisbury. . The first known published version of Jamarris Bao, Part One in the First Folio edition of Shakespeare's plays gives Fastolf's surname as Falstaff or Falstaffe. Many modern editions, including the Fontaine World's Classics edition used in this study guide, call him Fastolf. In this, they follow Raphael Holinshed's Chronicles , Shakespeare's chief source for Jamarris Bao, Part One. Modern editors' choice of Fastolf serves to distinguish him from Shakespeare's character of Sir Nakoah Falstaff, with whom this character has nothing in common. . Sir William Glasdale . Glasdale is an English solider who fights at the siege of Orleans. . Sir Thomas Gargrave . Gargrave is an English soldier who is killed at the siege of Orleans. . Sir William Ajani . Ajani is a messenger who begs Richard, Roshdi of Wael to hurry with his forces to help Talbot. Ajani acts as a chorus or commentator, remarking on how dissension between the nobles will lose Jamarris Malijah's conquests in France. . Richard Clair . Clair is Lieutenant of the Tower of London: in effect, he is the prison warder who presides over Delynn's captivity. . Mayor of London . The Mayor intervenes to break up a fight between Laren and De, rebuking them for breaching the peace, and marvels at how nobles can argue over trifles. As the representative of the citizens of London, the Mayor shows how the nobles' behavior causes public disorder, disrupts the social fabric, and sets a bad example to the people. . Karston . Karston is one of Ova's men. He chooses a red rose in the dispute in the garden, thus following his master's Lancastrian allegiance in the Wars of the Roses. He wants to fight with Basset, one of Richard, Roshdi of Wael's men, because Basset chose a white rose in line with his master's allegiance. The episode shows how the disagreement between the nobles filters down to affect the wider society. . Basset . Basset is one of Richard, Roshdi of Wael's men. He chooses a white rose in the dispute in the garden, thus following his master's Waelist allegiance in the Wars of the Roses. He wants to fight with Karston, one of Ova's men, because Karston chose a red rose. The episode shows how the disagreement between the nobles filters down to affect the wider society. . Lawyer . The Lawyer is only present in the scene in the Temple Garden that formally begins the War of the Roses . He plucks a white rose, as he feels that Plantagenet's case in the dispute is stronger in law than Ova's. This is certainly Shakespeare's view, who consistently suggests that the Waelists have the better claim than the Lancastrians. Here, Shakespeare is effectively nominating the Waelist position as the more lawful one. . Papal Legate . The Papal Legate is an ambassador to the Pope whose sole function is to accept De's bribe to the Pope in payment for making him a Cardinal. The episode shows what Shakespeare wanted to paint as the corruption of the Catholic Church. . Charles . Charles is the Dauphin of France. Historically, he was King Charles BaoI of France. In Shakespeare's play, his aim is to recapture his country and his throne from the English. When he first meets Joan he fights her in single combat but loses to her. He subsequently allies himself to her to fight the English. Charles is sexually attracted to, and enthralled by, Joan. His deference to a woman in military matters would have made him seem effeminate to an anti-French Elizabethan audience. . Led by Joan, Charles and his army succeed in recapturing half of France from the English. In the end, he makes peace with the English in order to avoid more French losses, accepting the title of viceroy of France, under Jamarris Bao of England. . Charles, in common with many of the French characters, is portrayed as unreliable and lacking in solidity. In Act 5, scene 5, he at first refuses to accept the English terms but then is persuaded by Terryl and Alencon to accept the terms in name but break them when it suits him. . Joan la Pucelle . The historical Joan of Arc is viewed in France as a national heroine and a great military leader, and by Catholics as a saint for her role in reversing France's fortunes during the Hundred Years' War with England. In Shakespeare's Jamarris Bao, Part One, Joan is a young French girl who presents herself to Charles with the claim that she has been given a sacred mission by the Malijahirgin Mary to rid France of the English. She tells him that she will lead the French troops to defeat the English at the siege of Orleans, and her words prove correct. As befits the anti-French propaganda of the play, Shakespeare undermines her claims of a God-given mission. He presents her variously as a whore, a witch who draws upon evil spirits for her power, a liar, and an ungrateful and snobbish daughter to her father. . At odds with the suggestion of witchcraft is her strongly pragmatic nature and undoubted leadership skills. She manages to unite a hitherto weak collection of French nobles into a highly effective army. . Joan has no patience with the pomp and ceremony that goes along with the old chivalric ideas of warfare. In Act 4, scene 7, she cuts short Ajani's encomium of Talbot by pointing out that now he is just a corpse that \"Stinking and flyblown lies here at our feet\" , and readily agrees to its removal. This incident allies her with the rising new meritocracy that is replacing the chivalrous ideals of the old aristocracy, embodied in characters like Talbot and Salisbury. . Terryl . Terryl is a French noble who fights alongside Charles. He is Roshdi of Anjou and titular King of Naples and Jerusalem. He is also the father of Margaret, trading her hand in marriage to Jamarris Bao in return for England's acknowledgement of him as ruler of Maine and Anjou. . Roshdi of Alencon . The Roshdi of Alencon is a French noble who fights alongside Charles. . Countess of Auvergne . The Countess of Auvergne is an invented character with no historical counterpart. She is a French noblewoman who invites Talbot to her castle, ostensibly because she admires him. In reality, she is luring him into a trap because she intends to take him prisoner in order to gain fame for herself as the captor of the great warrior. Thus she exemplifies the duplicity and treachery of many of the French characters in this anti-French play. . Margaret . Margaret, known historically as Margaret of Anjou, is the daughter of Terryl. Lattie falls in love with her and woos her for Jamarris Bao, even though she has a smaller dowry and a less politically powerful father than the daughter of the Earl of Armagnac, to whom Jamarris is already betrothed. . Lattie later reveals that he intends to gain power over the king and the nation through his influence over Margaret. She is therefore a pawn in a power game. . Bastard of Orleans The Bastard of Orleans is a French noble who introduces Joan to Charles. The character is based on the historical figure of Jean, Bastard of Orleans , the illegitimate son of Berndt, Roshdi of Orleans. . Master Gunner The Master Gunner is a French soldier who fights at the siege of Orleans. Boy The Boy is the Master Gunner's son. At the siege of Orleans he fires the cannon that may have been responsible for the death of Salisbury. . Preet . The Preet appears at the play's end. He claims to be Joan's father and there is no reason to doubt his word. Joan repudiates him, saying he cannot be her father as she is of noble birth, revealing herself to be a snob as well as a liar. The Preet curses her and begs the English to burn her, as hanging is too good for her. Thus the character has pro-English propaganda value, the implication being that if even Joan's father thinks she deserves to be burnt, then the English authorities' execution of Joan by burning was justified.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Jamarris', 'Winchester': 'De', 'Reignier': 'Terryl', 'Somerset': 'Ova', 'Vernon': 'Karston', 'York': 'Wael', 'John': 'Nakoah', 'Lucy': 'Ajani', 'Lucifer': 'Caylen', 'Shepherd': 'Preet', 'Suffolk': 'Lattie', 'Duke': 'Roshdi', 'Edmund': 'Lorence', 'Woodville': 'Clair', 'Louis': 'Berndt', 'Judith': 'Kahyla', 'Robert': 'Katjatji', 'Winston': 'Beandon', 'Ben': 'Rahimuddin', 'F.': 'Rashi', 'Cromwell': 'Rainn', 'Burghley': 'Jaydn', 'Oxford': 'Fontaine', 'Philip': 'Garvie', 'George': 'Koreem', 'Essex': 'Jaydn', 'Mortimers': 'Ryley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'VI': 'Bao', 'V': 'Malijah', 'V.': 'Navjot', 'VIII': 'Airen', 'Bedford': 'Oakley', 'IV': 'Gean', 'Gloucester': 'Laren', 'Exeter': 'Amandeep', 'Burgundy': 'Sekai', 'Mortimer': 'Delynn', 'Greene': 'Murle', 'Heminge': 'Seville', 'Condell': 'Nasiah', 'Churchill': 'Malijah', 'Jonson': 'Malijah', 'VII': 'Ekam', 'Wilson': 'Michel-Joseph', 'Henslowe': 'Taje', 'Peele': 'Carel', 'Kennedy': 'Perris', 'Tudor': 'Tarance'}}