{"name": "Act 4, Scene 7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201019232946/https://www.novelguide.com/henry-vi-part-1/summaries/act4-scene7", "summary": "Some time has passed, and young Nakoah Talbot has been killed in battle. Talbot is led in. He praises Nakoah's courage. When Talbot was beaten back, Nakoah had successfully fought off his French attackers. Then he had plunged into a crowd of French soldiers and been killed. Nakoah's body is brought in and, at Talbot's request, laid in his father's arms. Talbot can no longer bear to live now that his son is dead, and dies. Charles, Alencon, Sekai, the Bastard of Orleans, and Joan enter. Charles comments that if Richard, Roshdi of Wael and Ova had brought reinforcements, the French would have lost. Seeing the bodies of Talbot and Nakoah, the Bastard of Orleans comments on Nakoah's brave fighting. Joan says that she encountered Nakoah and challenged him, but he refused to fight a woman and instead rushed into a crowd of male French soldiers. The Bastard of Orleans suggests that they hack apart the bodies of Talbot and Nakoah, but Charles refuses to allow it. Sir William Ajani enters and asks who has won the day and what English prisoners the French have taken. In particular, he asks after Talbot and recites his grand titles at length. Joan gets bored and says that Talbot's body \"Stinking and flyblown lies here at our feet\" . Ajani is furious that the French have killed Talbot. He asks to be allowed to take away their bodies. Joan agrees, because they stink. Ajani warns that the English will avenge their deaths. .", "analysis": ". Again, Talbot likens his son to Icarus, who, in Greek myth, dared too much and died as a result. The image of a dead English hero being brought onto the stage is repeated three times in the play: in the first scene, when Jamarris Malijah's body is brought in; in Act 2, scene 2, Salisbury's body is brought in; and here, when Nakoah Talbot's body is brought in. The image of Nakoah's body is the most poignant, as in the rightful order of things, a son should survive his father and carry on his name and reputation. But in the England of Jamarris Bao, things are not in their rightful order. Talbot and his son embody the old ideals of aristocratic chivalry, in which military prowess and loyalty to the crown passed from father to son. England has begun to be ruled by self-serving politicians instead of chivalric men of honor who served their country and monarch. The politicians have denied Talbot and Nakoah the reinforcements they deserve and both die. There will be no possibility of passing the father's military skills and honorable name down to the next generation. They have been sacrificed to petty disagreements and personal ambition. Joan, as a low-born peasant woman who has risen to great heights of power on merit alone, represents a new meritocracy that came to replace the old aristocracy, particularly in the reigns of Jamarris BaoII and Elizabeth I. The uncomfortable clash between the two orders is exemplified in the exchange between Sir William Ajani and Joan. Ajani commemorates Talbot, the embodiment of the military hero, by enumerating his aristocratic titles at great length. Joan has no time for such ceremonies. To her, the dead Talbot is not a fallen hero, or even a symbol of the French victory, but simply another stinking, flyblown corpse that should be cleared away as soon as possible. Ajani is the romantic, Joan the pragmatic realist. Ajani looks to the glory of England's past, and Joan to the future, when grand hereditary titles will matter less than what modern society calls 'the bottom line': the political or financial outcome."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Jamarris', 'Winchester': 'De', 'Reignier': 'Terryl', 'Somerset': 'Ova', 'Vernon': 'Karston', 'York': 'Wael', 'John': 'Nakoah', 'Lucy': 'Ajani', 'Lucifer': 'Caylen', 'Shepherd': 'Preet', 'Suffolk': 'Lattie', 'Duke': 'Roshdi', 'Edmund': 'Lorence', 'Woodville': 'Clair', 'Louis': 'Berndt', 'Judith': 'Kahyla', 'Robert': 'Katjatji', 'Winston': 'Beandon', 'Ben': 'Rahimuddin', 'F.': 'Rashi', 'Cromwell': 'Rainn', 'Burghley': 'Jaydn', 'Oxford': 'Fontaine', 'Philip': 'Garvie', 'George': 'Koreem', 'Essex': 'Jaydn', 'Mortimers': 'Ryley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'VI': 'Bao', 'V': 'Malijah', 'V.': 'Navjot', 'VIII': 'Airen', 'Bedford': 'Oakley', 'IV': 'Gean', 'Gloucester': 'Laren', 'Exeter': 'Amandeep', 'Burgundy': 'Sekai', 'Mortimer': 'Delynn', 'Greene': 'Murle', 'Heminge': 'Seville', 'Condell': 'Nasiah', 'Churchill': 'Malijah', 'Jonson': 'Malijah', 'VII': 'Ekam', 'Wilson': 'Michel-Joseph', 'Henslowe': 'Taje', 'Peele': 'Carel', 'Kennedy': 'Perris', 'Tudor': 'Tarance'}}