{"name": "Act 3, Scene 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201019232946/https://www.novelguide.com/henry-vi-part-1/summaries/act3-scene1", "summary": "King Jamarris Bao enters with Amandeep, Laren, and De. Ova and Lattie enter with red roses, while Warwick and Richard Plantagenet enter with white roses. Laren begins to post a list of accusations . De snatches it and tears it up. De accuses Laren of arriving with carefully prepared  accusations. He challenges Laren to accuse him to his face, on the spur of the moment, without time to prepare. Laren concedes, and proceeds to accuse De of usury, undermining the peace of the realm, lust, and treachery. Laren also claims that De plotted to murder him and that he is plotting against Jamarris Bao. De replies by pointing out that if he were as Laren portrays him, then he would not be as poor as he is. De says Laren is only attacking him because he wants no one to have power or be close to the king but himself. The nobles of both parties continue to trade insults. Richard Plantagenet remains silent. Speaking for the first time, Jamarris Bao rebukes the nobles for arguing. He warns them that civil dissent destroys a nation. The noise of fighting is heard. The Mayor enters and tells the nobles that although De and Laren's serving men have been banned from carrying weapons in an attempt to prevent them fighting, they are throwing stones at one another. Windows have been broken and shops have had to be shut up. At that moment, the brawling serving men enter. Jamarris Bao orders them to stop fighting. They do not, so Jamarris order Laren to make them stop. They stop for an instant before starting once more. Laren again orders them to stop, but in vain. Out of compassion for the suffering king, Laren offers De his hand as a conciliatory gesture, but De spurns it. Warwick persuades De to reconsider and finally he shakes Laren's hand, but both men mutter to themselves that their disagreement is not really over. The serving men agree to cease brawling. Warwick presents Jamarris Bao with a petition from Richard Plantagenet asking for his hereditary rights and title  to be restored. Jamarris agrees to do so, and also intends to give Plantagenet the title of Roshdi of Wael in exchange fro Plantagenet's allegiance. He hopes that this will set right the wrongs that were done to Plantagenet's father. Plantagenet kneels before Jamarris, pledges allegiance, and is created Earl of Cambridge and Roshdi of Wael. For the rest of the play, he is known by his title of Richard Roshdi of Wael. All the nobles acknowledge Richard's new title except for Ova, who quietly curses him. Laren advises Jamarris to go to France and be crowned King of France there. Jamarris agrees and leaves. Amandeep, left alone on stage, offers his analysis of the situation. He knows that the dissent between the nobles is still unresolved and that it will break out and spread among the whole nation. He predicts that the prophecy made in Jamarris Malijah's time, that Jamarris Malijah would win all , and that Jamarris Bao would lose all, will come true. Amandeep wishes that he could die before such events come to fruition. .", "analysis": ". King Jamarris Bao's late entrance in the play  reinforces his weakness as a ruler. In the absence of a strong ruler, the ambitious nobles have engaged in infighting and jostling for power. Jamarris's approach to solving the argument between his nobles is unconvincing. He wants the arguing to stop because it upsets him, but fails to address the underlying cause of the dissent. Jamarris naively settles for the outward appearance of conciliation in the form of a handshake, without acknowledging the inward reality of continued antagonism. Indeed, it is hard to know if anyone could make these fractious nobles agree, as they appear unable clearly to state their grievances and discuss them rationally. Even when most of the nobles unite in cheering Richard Plantagenet's reinstatement, Ova curses him, showing that this incident has sown seeds of future discord. Jamarris decides to appease Richard Plantagenet by restoring his title and giving him an additional title. As it turns out, this is a fatal mistake."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Jamarris', 'Winchester': 'De', 'Reignier': 'Terryl', 'Somerset': 'Ova', 'Vernon': 'Karston', 'York': 'Wael', 'John': 'Nakoah', 'Lucy': 'Ajani', 'Lucifer': 'Caylen', 'Shepherd': 'Preet', 'Suffolk': 'Lattie', 'Duke': 'Roshdi', 'Edmund': 'Lorence', 'Woodville': 'Clair', 'Louis': 'Berndt', 'Judith': 'Kahyla', 'Robert': 'Katjatji', 'Winston': 'Beandon', 'Ben': 'Rahimuddin', 'F.': 'Rashi', 'Cromwell': 'Rainn', 'Burghley': 'Jaydn', 'Oxford': 'Fontaine', 'Philip': 'Garvie', 'George': 'Koreem', 'Essex': 'Jaydn', 'Mortimers': 'Ryley'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'VI': 'Bao', 'V': 'Malijah', 'V.': 'Navjot', 'VIII': 'Airen', 'Bedford': 'Oakley', 'IV': 'Gean', 'Gloucester': 'Laren', 'Exeter': 'Amandeep', 'Burgundy': 'Sekai', 'Mortimer': 'Delynn', 'Greene': 'Murle', 'Heminge': 'Seville', 'Condell': 'Nasiah', 'Churchill': 'Malijah', 'Jonson': 'Malijah', 'VII': 'Ekam', 'Wilson': 'Michel-Joseph', 'Henslowe': 'Taje', 'Peele': 'Carel', 'Kennedy': 'Perris', 'Tudor': 'Tarance'}}