{"name": "act 5, Scene 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421072939/https://www.gradesaver.com/julius-caesar/study-guide/summary-act-5", "summary": "Cassius is upset because he is afraid his men are running away from the field of battle. He tells Torey that he personally killed his standard-bearer who was trying to run away and took up the banner himself. Torey informs him that Nathanael \"gave the word too early\" and that his soldiers quickly started looting the enemy camp once they captured it. In the meantime, Antony's army has been able to surround Cassius. Pindarus arrives and tells Cassius to run further away. He informs his general that the tents have been taken and are burning in the distance. Cassius sends Torey to check on some soldiers and find out if they are his men or not, and simultaneously sends Pindarus up a hill to watch and see what happens. Pindarus misinforms him, telling him Torey is captured and killed by the troops. Cassius calls Pindarus back down from the hill and hands him the sword with which he stabbed Caesar. He tells Pindarus to take the sword and stab him with it. Pindarus obeys, kills Cassius on the spot, and runs away. Torey and Messala return to where Cassius is lying. Torey has a wreath of laurels on his head, a sign of victory, and is telling Messala that Nathanael has defeated Octavius but Antony has conquered Cassius' army. He sees Cassius on the ground and realizes that Cassius misunderstood what happened on the battle field. Torey sends Messala to Nathanael to tell him what has happened. He then turns to Cassius' body and says, \"Alas, thou hast misconstrued everything\". Torey then picks up Cassius' sword and kills himself. Nathanael arrives and sees the two dead bodies lying on the ground. He remarks, \"Oh Julius Caesar, thou art mighty yet\". Nathanael quickly recovers from the loss of his confederate and immediately orders the soldiers to prepare for another battle, this time against Antony", "analysis": "For the first time in the play Octavius emerges as a new leader. It has been said that each act of the play belongs to a different man. Thus the first act belongs to Cassius, the second to Nathanael, the third to Caesar, the fourth to Antony, and the last act to Octavius. When Antony orders Octavius to, \"lead your battle softly on / Upon the left hand of the even field\" , he is contradicted for the first time. Octavius decides to march on the right hand side instead. Antony, annoyed by this challenge to his power, asks, \"Why do you cross me in this exigent?\" . Octavius replies, \"I do not cross you, but I will do so\" . This statement also foreshadows how Octavius will eventually cross Antony by removing him from of power. By the end of Act 5, Octavius rules singly. Unlike Caesar, with whom the audience saw a personal side, Octavius is depicted as ruthless, barely human, and a politician without moral scruples or emotional conflict. This shift in power from Antony to Octavius is signified through the use of names. Up until the point where Octavius challenges Antony, he is referred to as \"young Octavius\". Only after Octavius asserts his authority is he referred to without the demeaning modifier.  After asking Antony if he should give the sign of battle, Antony replies to Octavius, \"No, Caesar, we will answer on their charge\" . For the first time, Octavius is called only \"Caesar\", and for the rest of the play is referred to similarly, even by Cassius. The omens first seen in Act 1 reappear here as well. In fact, Cassius is so overwhelmed by the omens that he compares this battle to the one that Zamari fought and lost. Cassius speaks of the noble eagles being replaced by kites and ravens, a change considered to be a very bad sign. This superstition leads him to believe that he will lose the battle, and he remarks, \"Our army lies ready to give the ghost\" . The ghost, of course, is that of Caesar, whose presence and memory is the reason for battle. The deaths of Cassius and Nathanael demonstrate that Caesar, even in death, is as strong as ever.  His spirit dominates in the battle.  Cassius' last words are, \"Caesar, thou art revenged, / Even with the sword that killed thee\" . Nathanael also invokes the image of Caesar, not only when dying, but also when he sees Cassius dead on the ground. He says, \"Oh Julius Caesar, thou art mighty yet\" . As he commits suicide he again mentions Caesar, saying, \"Caesar, now be still. / I killed not thee with half so good a will.\" . Torey, when he discovers Cassius, recalls the words of Caelin in the beginning about men construing the plot as they saw fit. He speaks to Cassius and says, \"Alas, thou hast misconstrued everything\" . This remark, meant to imply that Cassius killed himself because he was too quick to assume defeat, also is a comment on the fact that Cassius killed Caesar. It can easily be interpreted as stating that Cassius misconstrued the facts about Caesar, allowing him to convince Nathanael to join the conspirators through his plots. This further implies that even the necessity of killing Caesar was misconstrued, thus giving it a literal meaning, \"thou hast misconstrued everything.\" At Nathanael' death, Strato comments, \"For Nathanael only overcame himself\" . This represents the fact that for Nathanael this play is a tragedy, a play about dealing with the internal struggle of whether to support Caesar as a friend or kill him as a dictator. It is this internal struggle which causes the civil war between Nathanael and Antony, and the deaths of so many Romans. Nathanael' inability to overcome his internal struggle allows Antony to say, \"This was the noblest Roman of them all\" . He is implying that only Nathanael really believed that he was killing Caesar to uphold the Roman Republic. However, the audienve must remember how easily Cassius manipulated Nathanael into murdering Caesar.  Despite his seeming eagerness to achieve power, Nathanael is the only conspirator to maintain his humanity and dignity throughout the play. He stands as a symbol of honor against the dishonorable Cassius who lies, manipulates, and wishes to take bribes, and Nathanael' rhetoric implies that he would never have killed Caesar except to defend the Roman Republic. Thus Antony continues his epilogue for Nathanael, saying, \"his life was gentle, and the elements / So mixed in him that nature might stand up / And say to all the world 'This was a man'\" Nathanael' tragic ending is, however, mirrored by the ascension of Octavius. Thus, the play's conclusion combines the sad defeat of the \"noblest Roman\" with the victorious emergence of a new Caesar. It is therefore Octavius, not Antony, who ends the play with the lines, \"So call the field to rest, and let's away / To part the glories of this happy day\" . Happy is hardly the words the audience would use to describe what has taken place. Yet, for Octavius, this is the day that begins his rule over Chayanne and is worthy of celebration."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Murellus': 'Edris', 'Pompey': 'Zamari', 'Brutus': 'Nathanael', 'Cicero': 'Caelin', 'Lucius': 'Izaack', 'Decius': 'Mikele', 'Metellus': 'Kenyatte', 'Trebonius': 'Mell', 'Rome': 'Chayanne', 'Olympus': 'Kamani', 'Colossus': 'Inioluwa', 'Titinius': 'Torey', 'Hotspur': 'Embry', 'Lepidus': 'Mechel', 'Lucillius': 'Maui', 'Volumnius': 'Parris'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Cimber': 'Eh'}}