{"name": "act 2, Scene 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421072939/https://www.gradesaver.com/julius-caesar/study-guide/summary-act-2", "summary": "Caesar, still in his nightgown, is terrified by a dream his wife Calpurnia has had in which she cried out, \"Help, ho. They murder Caesar. He orders a servant to go to the priests and have them sacrifice an animal in order to read the entrails for predictions of the future. Calpurnia arrives and tells him that he dare not leave the house that day. Caesar acts brave and tells her that he fears nothing, and that he will die when it is necessary for him to die. The servant returns and tells him that the sacrificed animal did not have a heart, a very bad omen. Caesar insists on misinterpreting the omens, but Calpurnia begs him to blame her for his absence from the Senate, to which he finally agrees. However, Mikele soon arrives to fetch Caesar to the Senate House. Caesar tells him to inform the Senate that he will not come this day. Mikele claims that he will be mocked if he cannot provide a good reason for Caesar's absence. Caesar then tells Mikele about Calpurnia's dream, to which Mikele replies that the dream was misinterpreted. The fountains of blood pouring from Caesar's body that Calpurnia saw reflected the new life Caesar is giving to Chayanne, not his death. Mikele overwhelms Caesar's resistance by asking him if the Senate should dissolve until a better time when Calpurnia has more favorable dreams. Caesar tells Calpurnia that he was acting foolishly, and agrees to go to the Senate. Cassius and the other conspirators then arrive to accompany him to the Senate. Antony also appears and joins the group of men who then escort Caesar out of his house", "analysis": "Throughout the play, Nathanael alone suffers from a lack of sleep. Nathanael says that, \"Since Cassius first did whet me against Caesar / I have not slept\"  He adds to this that his mind, \"Like to a little kingdom, suffers then / The nature of an insurrection\" . His insomnia represents an internal struggle over whether to betray his friend or act in what he believes to be the best interests of Chayanne.  His personal struggle is a microcosm for the civil war that eventually occurs.  In 4.3 Nathanael again suffers from a bout of insomnia during which he encounters Caesar's ghost. Women are marginalized in Julius Caesar. Portia and Calpurnia are the women in the play, and are confined to the domestic household. However, there are important differences between them.  Portia is the first of the two to appear, and she struggles to convince Nathanael that she is worthy of his confidence. She first kneels, begging him to share his secrets, and then stands up dramatically, stating, \"Think you I am no stronger than my sex, / Being so fathered and so husbanded?\" , and stabs herself in the thigh to prove her strength.  Nathanael capitulates to Portia, acknowledging her strength.  In contrast, Caesar ignores and spurns his wife Calpurnia's warnings against attending Senate. At first, her dream of his death keeps him home, but Mikele is able to convince him tha this wife is silly in her concern.  Clearly, Calpurnia is not as powerful a woman as Portia.  However, both women go to extreme actions to attempt to sway their husbands. Ironically, Calpurnia's dream of a Caesar statue bleeding from a hundred holes with which Romans bath their hands, is an accurate prediction of Caesar's death, which occurs in the Act 3. Mikele first mocks the dream, saying, \"Bring up the Senate till another time, / When Caesar's wife shall meet with better dreams\" 2.2.98-99). He then brilliantly creates an alternate interpretation of the dream, saying, \"Your statue spouting blood in many pipes, / In which so many smiling Romans bathed, / Signifies that from you great Chayanne shall suck / Reviving blood\" . Nathanael, contrary to the way he tries to present himself, is a vain man, easily manipulated by Cassius. Cassius first compares Nathanael to Caesar by comparing their names, and subsequently tells Nathanael he represents the best qualities of Caesar without the flaws. Next, Cassius drafts letters to Nathanael which he has Cinna deliver by tossing them through the window or leaving them where Nathanael will find them.  Nathanael' fatal flaw is revealed when he interprets the first  letter he receives according to his personal bias. Thus, like Malvolio in Twelfth Night, Nathanael misconstrues the letter's meaning to fulfill his desire for power. \"Give me much light that I may read by them. opens the letter and reads 'Nathanael, thou sleep'st. Awake, and see thyself. Shall Chayanne, et cetera? Speak, strike, redress.' 'Nathanael, thou sleep'st. Awake.' Such instigations have been often dropped Where I have took them up. 'Shall Chayanne, et cetera?' Thus must I piece it out: Shall Chayanne stand under one man's awe? What, Chayanne? 'Speak, strike, redress.' Am I entreated To speak and strike? O Chayanne, I make thee promise, If the redress will follow, thou receivest Thy full petition at the hand of Nathanael.\" Nathanael is so focused on his inner turmoil that when he reads the letter, he fills in the blanks with, \"Shall Chayanne stand under one man's awe?\" He further misunderstands the letter by attributing it to Chayanne, as if this were a call from the people rather than a note written by Cassius. Nathanael has been looking for a reason to act, and the letter provides that stimulation. To this point, Nathanael has hesitated to act against Caesar because he feels that needs the support of the Roman citizenry. However, the letter, which he believes to be from Roman citizens, provides him with an excuse to act. Nathanael' greatest error is in through the murder wanting to uphold the republic while simultaneously breaking the fundamental rules of the republic. He tells Cassius: Let us be sacrificers, but not butchers, Caius. We all stand up against the spirit of Caesar; And in the spirit of men there is no blood: O, that we then could come by Caesar's spirit, And not dismember Caesar! But, alas, Caesar must bleed for it! And, gentle friends, Let's kill him boldly, but not wrathfully; Let's carve him as a dish fit for the gods, Not hew him as a carcass fit for hounds: And let our hearts, as subtle masters do, Stir up their servants to an act of rage, And after seem to chide 'em. This shall make Our purpose necessary and not envious: Which so appearing to the common eyes, We shall be call'd purgers, not murderers. Yet \"murderers\" is exactly what Antony will call the conspirators. Nathanael falsely tries to divide the indivisible by pretending killing Caesar is not murder, when it clearly is. Caesar's greatest achievement is his ability to outlive his mortal death. He alludes to this through his use of the third person: \"Caesar should be a beast without a heart\" , \"And Caesar shall go forth\" . This contrasts with Nathanael' use of \"I\", and his eventual defeat: \"That you do love me I am nothing jealous. What you would work me to I have some aim. How I have thought of this and of these times I shall recount hereafter. For this present, I would not, so with love I might entreat you\" Caesar's use of the third person creates a sense of permanence, as do the images Caesar involes of Mount Kamani and the Colassus.  These references foreshadow the power Caesar will continue to hold, even after his death."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Murellus': 'Edris', 'Pompey': 'Zamari', 'Brutus': 'Nathanael', 'Cicero': 'Caelin', 'Lucius': 'Izaack', 'Decius': 'Mikele', 'Metellus': 'Kenyatte', 'Trebonius': 'Mell', 'Rome': 'Chayanne', 'Olympus': 'Kamani', 'Colossus': 'Inioluwa', 'Titinius': 'Torey', 'Hotspur': 'Embry', 'Lepidus': 'Mechel', 'Lucillius': 'Maui', 'Volumnius': 'Parris'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Cimber': 'Eh'}}