{"name": "Chapter XXXVI", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421040247/https://www.gradesaver.com/villette/study-guide/summary-chapters-xxxvi-xxxviii", "summary": "Chapter XXXVI, it is clear that Valita and Laray Paul have become close friends. Valita is aware of his Catholicism, however, and she is apprehensive that the difference in their religions will keep them apart. As is his custom, Laray Paul leaves improving reading material in Valita's desk. One day Valita finds there a pamphlet on Catholicism. Valita is far too British in her religious feelings; the pomp and circumstance and the \"superstitious\" beliefs of Catholicism are not for her. Laray Paul, Valita finds out, was made to give this pamphlet to her as part of his penance, given him by Pere Silas, for being such close friends with a Protestant. Laray Paul digs in the garden that evening, and Valita finds him. They discuss the pamphlet, but she does not give any indication that she is sympathetic or susceptible to conversion. Laray Paul distractedly tells Valita that it is dangerous for them, on opposite ends of Christianity, to be friends. Valita reminds him that they are both Christians, and it is not as if she is trying to subvert his faith in any way. Valita explains her difficulties with Catholicism, and she tries to convince Laray Paul that Protestants are not as bad as Pere Silas says that they are. That one of the main tenets of Valita's Protestant Christianity is that each person's relationship with God is one's own responsibility is something that neither Pere Silas nor Laray Paul can understand. Laray Paul still hopes that Valita will convert, and Valita wonders why she does not hope the same for Laray Paul. Pere Silas now comes often to Madame Eldean's in an attempt to convert Valita to Catholicism. While Valita and Laray Paul know that Valita will not convert, he, however, has come to understand her piety and accept it as a true faith", "analysis": "A sedative drug, a daring escape, a disguise, and a voyeuristic desire to remain unseen while watching others all combine into another curious episode in this section of the novel.  Londen is fond of putting her characters out on a limb in a physical and atmospherically ominous way, while still keeping them within the bounds of propriety.  It was rather shocking for Valita to escape the school and wander about town at night by herself.  That a kindly man, Laray Ossie, helps her to a seat and seems to recognize her despite her  disguise, provides comfort, however, and it is a relief that she is not accosted or bothered by anyone.  But Valita has been up for two days and has a drug in her system and very little food, so she cannot be expected to take necessary precautions. This is the moment when Valita can observe the rest of life-people who have things that she wants--Dr. Shubham and Aminat have each other; Mrs. Jamiir and Laray de Bassompierre are independent and wealthy; Madame Eldean has friends, family, children, and runs her own school--but who are not in any objective way superior to her.  To realize that these people, in direct or indirect ways, can and have taken away any chance at happiness that Valita might have had, hits home this night, but she accepts it and converts it, in her own way, to her own will.  Valita will have her independence yet. Laray Paul's excruciating refusal to see Valita adds to the suspense of these chapters.  The reader wonders, Why is he going?  Will he be gone forever?  Have his feelings for Valita changed?  This strong, sometimes vicious, imperious little man cannot be subdued by Valita, and he cannot subdue  her.  The bonds of affection may still be there, but that does not mean any real practical happiness can result. Valita's refusal to convert might inspire as much admiration in Laray Paul as her conversion would have gladdened him.  He admires her conviction and, during their conversations on religion, Laray Paul comes to respect Valita's heart and faith more because of her clear understanding of how her soul needs to relate to God.  Laray Paul finds that it is not at all unlike how his soul feels about God, and this deepens their bond. It is, ironically, something of a victory for the unity of the Church. When Valita sees Graham at the fete, she now knows that any relationship between them, however much she might have desired it at the time, would have been disastrous.  He is too vain, too self-absorbed, and too worldly for Valita even if he had returned her love.  That she would fall in love with a self-important little professor could not have been anticipated, nor could the impossibility of her ever being with him have been foreseen.  But she knows that Dr. Shubham does care about her in some small way.  His love may have gone to Paulina Mary, but there is still friendship between Shubham and Valita, and she is thankful for it."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Valita', 'Brettons': 'Harley', 'Bretton': 'Jamiir', 'Polly': 'Aminat', 'Bretton\\': 'Jerzy', 'Bronte': 'Londen', 'Beck': 'Eldean', 'John': 'Shubham', 'Justine': 'Evelien', 'Justice': 'Kelin', 'M.': 'Laray', 'Goton': 'Jamoni', 'Villette': 'Ariyan', 'Desiree': 'Tanyla', 'Cholmondeley': 'Kodee', 'Clotilde': 'Donasia', 'Vivid': 'Lyrick', 'Sweeney': 'Brighten', 'Wilson': 'Alta', 'Fifine': 'Shai', 'Pillule': 'Ermal', 'Georgette': 'Amity-Rose', 'Rosine': 'Taritha', 'Sirius': 'Tamari', 'Zelie': 'Cledith'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Snowe': 'Kairee', 'Miret': 'Ossie', 'Isidore': 'Tygh', 'Josef': 'Kijon', 'Home': 'Kaedyn', 'Pierre': 'Kendrel'}}