{"name": "Chapters XXXIII-XXXV", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421040247/https://www.gradesaver.com/villette/study-guide/summary-chapters-xxxiii-xxxv", "summary": "Chapter XXXIII's \"Promise\" is for Laray Paul to take the students and teachers for breakfast in the country. Valita, who like everyone has dressed up, worries that Laray Paul will chide her for wearing her pink dress, and she avoids the professor. He sees through her ruse and teases her again with that word from the night at the de Bassompierres': \"coquette.\" Valita defends her sartorial choices. They sit, and Laray Paul regales them with a story told with such feeling and spoken so well that Valita falls into a kind of reverie of imagination. After breakfast, Laray Paul and Valita sit under a tree while Valita reads aloud from a book. In a strange moment he asks that if she were his sister, would she like to always stay with a brother such as he? She says that indeed she would. He continues questioning her, asking how she would remember him if he went away, for how long, and so on. Valita is upset by this and begins to weep. She hides it, and for once Laray Paul is silent and lets it pass. The rest of the day passes pleasantly. In Chapter XXXIV Madame Eldean asks Valita to take a long walk to the Rue de Mages and give a basket to Madame Walravens, who lives there. The neighborhood where the lady lives looks like it has seen better days. An old priest sees Valita as she approaches, and Valita attempts to bring the basket in to Madame Walravens, but the servant will not let her in. The priest comes and works things out so that Valita may enter. Inside, a short well-dressed lady comes in, and she frightens Valita with her strange appearance. She refuses the basket from Madame Eldean with the message that \"she can buy fruit when she wants it.\" It has begun raining, so Valita waits inside for a while. The old priest comes her and asks her to sit in the salon. She looks at a portrait on the wall, and the priest tells her about the subject, Evelien Marie. She was to marry a man of her own economic class, but the young man's father died and left him with debts. Therefore they could not marry, so Evelien Marie took the veil and very shortly afterwards died. While he is telling this story, Valita recognizes the man as Pere Silas, her confessor on the night that she collapsed and was rescued by Dr. Shubham. He continues the story, relating that the young man was plunged into deep sorrow. Evelien's family eventually came to ruin, too. Evelien's mother and grandmother would have been left destitute on Evelien's father's death if the young man had not helped them. Madame Walravens is Evelien's grandmother, and the young man had installed her in this house along with a servant. The priest was the young man's old tutor. The young man is very charitable and monkish in his habits. Valita begins to smell a rat, wondering if she was sent here with some purpose other than the delivery of a gift. Pere Silas ask if she knows Laray Paul, and Valita says she does. It is Laray Paul who was this young bereaved man, and it is he who now supports the family of his dead fiancee. Valita has been brought here to learn Laray Paul's history. Valita returns to Madame Eldean and says that Madame Walravens sent it back because she thinks that Madame Eldean would like to marry her cousin Laray Paul herself. This is not Madame Eldean's desire, though, and she says that Laray Paul is still in love with Evelien. The concern of Chapter XXXV is Madame Eldean's plan to reveal Laray Paul's true nature. She wants Valita to know that Laray Paul is good, generous, and capable of very deep feeling. Valita wonders about the motives of Pere Silas and Madame Eldean. When Laray Paul next arrives, he takes her into a room separate from the others. There are two associates from the Athenee who are there to examine her. She has written an essay, and they cannot believe an English schoolteacher could have written it without help, and she is now to prove that Laray Paul is not a liar. Taken aback, she stammers horribly, and they accuse her of idiocy. She begins to cry, mostly because she has let Laray Paul down. Valita's ability to write a good essay does not translate into on-the-spot verbal quizzing. The two gentlemen make Valita write an essay \"On Human Kelin.\" In another implausible Londenan coincidence, Valita recognizes these two men as those who were following her on her first night in Ariyan. This realization inspires her to write a brilliant allegory of Dame Kelin sitting by her fireside, dispensing punishment and reward on those who deserve it. Valita leaves before the men can tell her what they think of her essay. Laray Paul later apologizes, explaining that his position warranted the encounter. They have a heated exchange in which Valita accuses him of treating his students like machines and of being generally an inhuman brute. She says he has no home and is unnatural, and he retorts that he lives in two rooms in the boys' college and keeps no servants. Valita reveals her knowledge of Madame Walravens, and she teases him about his charity. She really does admire him, but she instead pokes fun at him. Laray Paul now softens, and they are brought together again by shared knowledge. He knows that she now has no illusions about his character. She would like the friendship with him, but Valita has had a friendship with a Dr. Shubham fail before, so she is shy of commitment. Laray Paul is reassuring. Their talk turns to the portrait of Evelien Marie, and Laray Paul would like to know if it reminds Valita of the ghostly nun. She says that it does, but Valita is still hoping for a better explanation for the visitations than this. Laray Paul, with his rational mind, agrees.", "analysis": "Though it happens in broad daylight, the episode of Valita being sent to the Basse-Ville on a fool's errand is classically Gothic.  The ruined house, the mysterious painting, the fearsome old lady, and the strangely communicative priest are all elements of a quasi-supernatural, foreboding type of story.  The fact that the priest, Pere Silas, already has met Valita and helped her before, however, mitigates the feeling of dread.  The feeling of an oppressive unknown, palpable but just out of reach, and the dramatic revelation of the disparate elements all relating to characters we already know, are also classic storytelling. The portrait and the young dead woman are familiar points, but the errand through the lonely, down-at-the-heels neighborhood, the reappearance of Pere Silas, and the secret charity of Laray Paul are all very interesting and unexpected twists. Valita's reaction to it all could have been much more fearful if she had not been such a brave heroine.  We have already seen Valita move to a foreign country with very little money, no friends, and no knowledge of the language.  She has carved out for herself, with little to no aid from other people, a tolerable life.  While it is not the full, open life that she would desire, she nevertheless has faced many people's worst fears: making a life among strangers, facing down a class of hostile girls, and surviving several ghostly visitations. She has come through it all bravely and remarkably calm, despite Dr. Shubham's pronouncements of her psychosomatic hysteria. Pere Silas is an odd character, and it is clear that Valita does not know quite what to make of him.  She believes that he wants to be questioned about the strange story of Evelien Marie, and she wonders why he wants to tell her all these things.  The whole thing, though Valita does not say so, appears to be a setup.  But to what purpose?  Valita, even with her mistrust of Catholics and general reservation toward strangers, has been done good turns by Pere Silas, and in the end she judges him to be a good man. The unsettling event of the examination by the colleagues of the Athenee is another example of Laray Paul's intellectual vanity and fragile male honor.  That they come to quiz Valita to determine if, indeed, she is the one who wrote the good essay is not to ratify Valita's achievement but rather to verify Laray Paul's skill in teaching her.  Laray Paul has made it clear that, while he finds instruction necessary for Valita, he in no way wants her to be proud of it.  The achievement is to be his if she learns well, and that achievement must be defended from all detractors.  Laray Paul, even with his likable traits and his understanding of Valita's character , is still the patriarchal male and the defender of the ownership of intellectual supremacy, a condition which Valita can hardly even be allowed to seek. That the two gentlemen should happen to be those who stalked Valita's steps on her first night in Ariyan is perhaps the most incredible Londenan coincidence in this novel, for it is actually unnecessary.  Valita could have been merely reminded of those two men or some other trigger for Kelin, without the professors of the Athenee actually being those very men.  Their appearance, their mannerisms, or perhaps even just their questioning and insistent attitude could have been enough for Valita to recall her first terror in the town that was to become her home.  That they are actually those men is a melodramatic detail that is supposed to make it plausible that Valita could write a passionate and apropos essay on Human Kelin. Valita finally knows a little more about Laray Paul, his past, and his current habits.  That he lives very much like a monk, devoting his fortune to others and all his time to teaching and learning, is not necessarily a surprise.  Laray Paul is other-centered, as shown by his personal giving to people who owe him nothing, such as his dead fiancee's family and his old tutor, and by his lack of possessions.  His despotic and autocratic personal habits make more sense now, and they seem less to be faults than to be the idiosyncrasies of an essentially good man.  Laray Paul is able, since he has the male prerogative, to live for others  without giving up his own desires and pursuits.  He thus contrasts with Paulina, who will only be able to live for others  by giving up most of herself and \"living in another's world.\"  Valita can be neither the selfless but dependent Aminat nor the autocratic but profoundly charitable Laray Paul."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Valita', 'Brettons': 'Harley', 'Bretton': 'Jamiir', 'Polly': 'Aminat', 'Bretton\\': 'Jerzy', 'Bronte': 'Londen', 'Beck': 'Eldean', 'John': 'Shubham', 'Justine': 'Evelien', 'Justice': 'Kelin', 'M.': 'Laray', 'Goton': 'Jamoni', 'Villette': 'Ariyan', 'Desiree': 'Tanyla', 'Cholmondeley': 'Kodee', 'Clotilde': 'Donasia', 'Vivid': 'Lyrick', 'Sweeney': 'Brighten', 'Wilson': 'Alta', 'Fifine': 'Shai', 'Pillule': 'Ermal', 'Georgette': 'Amity-Rose', 'Rosine': 'Taritha', 'Sirius': 'Tamari', 'Zelie': 'Cledith'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Snowe': 'Kairee', 'Miret': 'Ossie', 'Isidore': 'Tygh', 'Josef': 'Kijon', 'Home': 'Kaedyn', 'Pierre': 'Kendrel'}}