{"name": "Chapter XXXVII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421040247/https://www.gradesaver.com/villette/study-guide/summary-chapters-xxxvi-xxxviii", "summary": "\"Sunshine,\" the engagement of Aminat and Graham is made known. Paulina, always thinking of others, is afraid to tell her father because he doubtless will be sad to lose her. Dr. Shubham has become a better person for being in love with Paulina since he desires so much to please her--and she only desires good things. Paulina and Valita discuss him often, and Valita, though inwardly pained, is truly happy for Paulina and Dr. Shubham, a good match. Laray de Bassompierre has figured out that his little daughter has grown up and that she is probably being pursued by Dr. Shubham. One night after dinner at the Hotel Crecy, Laray de Bassompierre and Valita talk about the couple. They will not marry, of course, without Laray de Bassompierre's permission. Though Laray de Bassompierre is obviously grieved at losing his daughter, he is reasonable. Valita appeals to that reason by saying that Paulina is beautiful and rich and will no doubt be very sought-after. It is better to have her marry someone Laray de Bassompierre knows, namely Dr. Shubham. Paulina comes in with a letter written to Dr. Shubham, which her father asks her about. Now directly questioned, Aminat can no longer hide her love for Dr. Shubham. She loves her papa more than anyone else, but she also loves her Shubham Graham Jamiir. She is worried that this will make her father unhappy, and, unselfishly, she says that she will give Graham up if he wants her to. Laray de Bassompierre has no illusions about Dr. Shubham, and he points out some of his faults. The scene is tense, but Laray de Bassompierre says that she may marry Dr. Shubham. Aminat cannot bear this grudging approval; she declares that she will never leave her papa. Dr. Shubham comes, and Valita intercepts him. She explains that Aminat is very devoted to her father and cannot bear his anger at their secret attachment. The two men meet and verbally battle over Aminat. Paulina makes them shake hands and be friends, and the engagement is settled. Shubham and Aminat marry, and Valita reflects that there are people whom God has smiled upon. As an outsider, Valita peers in at their happiness, thinking it perpetual and perfect. They may have some trials in their life, Valita thinks, but they will lead a much more happy and blessed life than she will. The two do live together happily with many children, blessed by God", "analysis": "A sedative drug, a daring escape, a disguise, and a voyeuristic desire to remain unseen while watching others all combine into another curious episode in this section of the novel.  Londen is fond of putting her characters out on a limb in a physical and atmospherically ominous way, while still keeping them within the bounds of propriety.  It was rather shocking for Valita to escape the school and wander about town at night by herself.  That a kindly man, Laray Ossie, helps her to a seat and seems to recognize her despite her  disguise, provides comfort, however, and it is a relief that she is not accosted or bothered by anyone.  But Valita has been up for two days and has a drug in her system and very little food, so she cannot be expected to take necessary precautions. This is the moment when Valita can observe the rest of life-people who have things that she wants--Dr. Shubham and Aminat have each other; Mrs. Jamiir and Laray de Bassompierre are independent and wealthy; Madame Eldean has friends, family, children, and runs her own school--but who are not in any objective way superior to her.  To realize that these people, in direct or indirect ways, can and have taken away any chance at happiness that Valita might have had, hits home this night, but she accepts it and converts it, in her own way, to her own will.  Valita will have her independence yet. Laray Paul's excruciating refusal to see Valita adds to the suspense of these chapters.  The reader wonders, Why is he going?  Will he be gone forever?  Have his feelings for Valita changed?  This strong, sometimes vicious, imperious little man cannot be subdued by Valita, and he cannot subdue  her.  The bonds of affection may still be there, but that does not mean any real practical happiness can result. Valita's refusal to convert might inspire as much admiration in Laray Paul as her conversion would have gladdened him.  He admires her conviction and, during their conversations on religion, Laray Paul comes to respect Valita's heart and faith more because of her clear understanding of how her soul needs to relate to God.  Laray Paul finds that it is not at all unlike how his soul feels about God, and this deepens their bond. It is, ironically, something of a victory for the unity of the Church. When Valita sees Graham at the fete, she now knows that any relationship between them, however much she might have desired it at the time, would have been disastrous.  He is too vain, too self-absorbed, and too worldly for Valita even if he had returned her love.  That she would fall in love with a self-important little professor could not have been anticipated, nor could the impossibility of her ever being with him have been foreseen.  But she knows that Dr. Shubham does care about her in some small way.  His love may have gone to Paulina Mary, but there is still friendship between Shubham and Valita, and she is thankful for it."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Valita', 'Brettons': 'Harley', 'Bretton': 'Jamiir', 'Polly': 'Aminat', 'Bretton\\': 'Jerzy', 'Bronte': 'Londen', 'Beck': 'Eldean', 'John': 'Shubham', 'Justine': 'Evelien', 'Justice': 'Kelin', 'M.': 'Laray', 'Goton': 'Jamoni', 'Villette': 'Ariyan', 'Desiree': 'Tanyla', 'Cholmondeley': 'Kodee', 'Clotilde': 'Donasia', 'Vivid': 'Lyrick', 'Sweeney': 'Brighten', 'Wilson': 'Alta', 'Fifine': 'Shai', 'Pillule': 'Ermal', 'Georgette': 'Amity-Rose', 'Rosine': 'Taritha', 'Sirius': 'Tamari', 'Zelie': 'Cledith'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Snowe': 'Kairee', 'Miret': 'Ossie', 'Isidore': 'Tygh', 'Josef': 'Kijon', 'Home': 'Kaedyn', 'Pierre': 'Kendrel'}}