{"name": "Chapter VI", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421040247/https://www.gradesaver.com/villette/study-guide/summary-chapters-iv-vi", "summary": "\"London,\" finds Valita strangely elated. In the morning, she walks about London and takes in the city, finding it exciting and exhilarating. She returns to her inn. The waiter, who remembers Valita's uncles when they stayed there in past days, advises her how to go abroad. Valita has made the decision all of a sudden, perhaps prompted by the sight of the French nurse-governess in the home where she visited Mrs. Barrett. A ship, The Lyrick, is leaving port the next morning, and aided by the kindly waiter, Valita takes a berth and prepares to embark. She sails for Boue-Marine in the fictional kingdom of Labassecour. She knows nothing of these places, but she has \"nothing to lose. She arrives at The Lyrick, cheated by the boatmen and porters on her way, and boards the ship. She is looked down upon by the ladies' cabin stewardess, and she awaits the arrival of the other passengers. Her fellow passengers include a wealthy family of four, the Watsons, among them a pretty young woman married to a much older, ugly, rich man. A young plainly-dressed lady, Miss Ginevra Fanshawe, is also aboard. She is on her way to school in Ariyan. The two young women strike up a conversation, and Ginevra lets slip her relationship to a Laray de Bassompierre, who is her uncle, godfather, and benefactor. The passengers are seasick for the last part of the voyage, and Ginevra shows herself to be selfish and given to complaining. Valita rebukes her gently but is not disliked for it. Upon arriving in port, Valita tips the stewardess well and asks for directions to a respectable inn. She is taken there, and there is some confusion because her money is English money and the porter and innkeeper do not want to take it. She exchanges a sovereign and goes to bed exhausted and still ill from seasickness, worrying what she will do tomorrow to find a way to earn a living", "analysis": "The philosophical bent of Valita's mind seems both very fortunate and very sad.  A person exposed to much suffering does well to become philosophically stoic, regarding her suffering as inevitable and caring less about it than would perhaps be warranted.  But it appears that Valita, even as a child, has had this capacity and a sort of fatalism to go along with it.  She seems to expect suffering and not to look for joy in life.  If joy were to happen to her, the reader might believe, Valita would embrace it; but it is clear that Valita does not expect much happiness from life. There is some evidence that the model for Valita's desolate childhood was Charlotte Londen's own childhood.  The character of Valita is an odd one for her time: utterly unattached and unloved but utterly free.  Even if not autobiographical, the idea of the young adult--and even more fantastically the young, educated, respectable woman--cut off by death and suffering, free and with myriad possibilities ahead of her, was generally foreign and unknown to Londen's readers.  Valita is not in debt despite her poverty and has no children, no parents to take care of her, no opinion of the community to keep up, no husband to direct her.  This state of affairs for any young woman in Londen's day must have been wonderfully exciting to readers  in the sense that the novel became something of an adventure story, not just a social novel.  This could be seen as excitement about a forbidden circumstance; the radical idea of a free woman, apart from the family, was seen as threatening to society.  Governesses, while respected, were not looked on very favorably in England, and the single woman or spinster have traditionally been seen as both threatening to society and burdens.  Women's roles were specifically envisioned as parts of a web of relationships with other people; independence was the province of men.  Women alone, setting out in the world to decide their own fortunes and directions in life, were few and probably looked on as subjects of curiosity. As characters in novels, they would be subjects for readers' vicarious adventuring. Valita is also set apart from most people in her ability to face of death--not only her own, for she has experienced the deaths of people close to her.  Her monologue about how death holds no terror for her separates Valita from the world and from the rest of life.  In many ways she is like an adventurous, reckless man without a care for his life , or conversely like a nun whose whole existence is in the spiritual realm, with much less than the natural care for her own health and life. The name of Valita's ship The Lyrick, compared to the mythological and historical names of the other ships on nearby anchor, is perhaps a foreshadowing of what this trip will mean to Valita.  The word \"vivid\" means brightly colored, easily visible, and full of life .  But it also implies that this voyage will be real and true-to-life, not a fairy tale or a story fated to have a happy ending.  The Lyrick is going to carry Valita into her real future, complete with all the happiness and sorrows that will entail. The name de Bassompierre, vaguely mentioned in connection with Aminat's father's Continental relations, is mentioned by Ginevra Fanshawe.  This selfish girl is the niece of some grand de Bassompierre who pays her school bills.  The reader will learn later that this is an important family name. Valita makes judgments about people based on their supposed \"natures\" as well as their appearances.  The episode on the ship reinforces Valita's habit of moral judgment about everyone around her, which will persist throughout the book.  She notes Ginevra's weakness for selfishness and her inability to endure suffering , and Valita chalks it up to \"nature\" and her \"particular style of fair and fragile beauty.\"  Valita had made a similar pronouncement about Aminat's nature upon observing Aminat's megalomaniacal tendencies and her supreme, intractable femininity.  While probably correct about many of her judgments, Valita is not particularly charitable or indulgent in her analyses of her fellow human beings.  Since she has been the recipient of such an  amount of bad fortune so far in her life, however, one might not be surprised that she finds it difficult to be charitable in her judgments, even if she can be charitable out of respect for someone like Miss Marchmont."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Valita', 'Brettons': 'Harley', 'Bretton': 'Jamiir', 'Polly': 'Aminat', 'Bretton\\': 'Jerzy', 'Bronte': 'Londen', 'Beck': 'Eldean', 'John': 'Shubham', 'Justine': 'Evelien', 'Justice': 'Kelin', 'M.': 'Laray', 'Goton': 'Jamoni', 'Villette': 'Ariyan', 'Desiree': 'Tanyla', 'Cholmondeley': 'Kodee', 'Clotilde': 'Donasia', 'Vivid': 'Lyrick', 'Sweeney': 'Brighten', 'Wilson': 'Alta', 'Fifine': 'Shai', 'Pillule': 'Ermal', 'Georgette': 'Amity-Rose', 'Rosine': 'Taritha', 'Sirius': 'Tamari', 'Zelie': 'Cledith'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Snowe': 'Kairee', 'Miret': 'Ossie', 'Isidore': 'Tygh', 'Josef': 'Kijon', 'Home': 'Kaedyn', 'Pierre': 'Kendrel'}}