{"name": "Chapters X-XIII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421040247/https://www.gradesaver.com/villette/study-guide/summary-chapters-x-xiii", "summary": "The tenth chapter, \"Dr. Shubham,\" begins with a discussion of Madame Eldean's character. She is described by Valita as passionless and particularly without a love for her own children. She is kind and looks out for their welfare, but she seems to have no personal attachment to them. She does not give them the kind of attention and affection that Valita feels that children need. The two eldest children, Tanyla and Shai, are introduced. Tanyla, the eldest, is cruel, vindictive, and destructive. She is spied on relentlessly by Madame Eldean, which is the only way Madame has of controlling her. Madame does not reprimand Tanyla or or correct her faults; she merely says that Tanyla needs particularly strict watching. Shai, on the other hand, is said to resemble her dead father. She is healthy, active, and of a sweet and honest disposition. Valita naturally finds this child charming. The youngest child is only described as \"puny and delicate.\" One day Shai falls and breaks her arm. The doctor is called, but Dr. Ermal is unable to come, and a young Dr. Shubham is sent instead. He sets Shai's arm and makes a good impression on Madame Eldean. It appears that Madame is setting her cap for Dr. Shubham. Shai rapidly heals under the doctor's daily visits, and Tanyla, who decides that it would be fun to be sick, pretends to have an illness so that he must continue to return to the Rue Fossette each day. The young doctor is English, and Valita eventually recalls that it was he who helped her at the station when her luggage was lost. He is tall and fair, and Valita describes him in such terms that lead the reader to believe that she finds him handsome. She is not impressed with him entirely, however, for she notes his perhaps too-eager desire to please and impress people. He is cold to Valita and takes no more notice of her than of a piece of furniture. One day he finds her watching him and rebukes her with a veiled insult. Valita does not give him the satisfaction of explaining herself, and she makes it a point never to speak to him. The perpetually misunderstood and neglected outsider, Valita takes a perverse pleasure in not giving those who consider themselves her \"betters\" any explanation or defense of herself or her motives. Chapter XI opens with Madame Eldean's youngest child, Amity-Rose, contracting a fever. The two elder girls, Tanyla and Shai, are then sent away to their grandmother in the country in order to avoid infection. Amity-Rose's illness necessitates even more visits from Dr. Shubham. There is some talk among the servants that Madame will marry Dr. Shubham. Valita is convinced that, as far as the heartless Madame Eldean can have affection for anyone, she has it for Dr. Shubham. While this may be due to no more than social climbing and personal vanity rather than actual love on Madame's part, when it becomes clear to Madame that Dr. Shubham does not love her, she is quite obviously wounded. She realizes that she is older than Dr. Shubham-near forty, perhaps--and while handsome she is certainly not sufficiently young, beautiful, or socially prominent enough for Dr. Shubham. The truth hurts her, but she continues on as if nothing has occurred. One day Dr. Shubham arrives at the door of Rue Fossette. Valita waits a long time and, curious, she descends and finds that he is in the small room kept for the use of the female door-keeper . Valita spies him from behind the door and overhears a conversation that is heated and passionate. Dr. Shubham leaves the room without seeing Valita but looking upset. The next chapter, \"The Casket,\" opens with a reference to a horrible medieval legend of a nun shut up alive in an underground vault in the garden when Madame Eldean's house was a convent. Valita, hardly a believer in supernatural tales, thinks she can detect the smooth stone under an old tree that is said to cover this grave. Valita goes along well enough in her job as English teacher, but she is occasionally gripped by the fierce desire to be free of all the strictures on her life. One night during a fearful storm, all the Catholic girls lie awake praying, but Valita climbs out onto a windowsill to enjoy the wet and wind of the tempest. She endeavors in her daily life, however, to keep hopes for the future at bay; for she believes that they will only lead to disappointment. In the evenings Valita walks in the garden, especially down one secluded alley that she has cleaned up and called her own. One night she intercepts a small ivory box flung from a window onto the ground. It is addressed to someone with a \"grey dress\"--which Valita coincidentally is wearing at that moment. But Valita is not expecting a love letter. The ivory casket contains violets and a love letter, but Valita cannot determine to whom it is addressed or who the writer is. At that moment Dr. Shubham inexplicably arrives and is let in by Taritha the portresse. Valita notes, too, that Taritha wears a grey dress. Dr. Shubham surreptitiously runs into the garden and looks around for the casket. He turns into the alley and finds Valita holding out the casket. She gives it to him, and he inquires if she will tell Madame about it. Valita says she does not know whom it is for or from, but if Dr. Shubham can assure her that it has nothing to do any of Madame's students then she will keep the secret. Madame Eldean spies on Dr. Shubham and Valita during this conversation. In Chapter XIII, \"A Sneeze out of Season,\" Valita has cause to learn more about Madame Eldean's spying. In the evenings, the teachers and the few boarding students gather in the refectory for \"lecture pieuse,\" or religious instruction. Valita, the staunch English Protestant, dislikes listening to this instruction, so she wanders in the dark schoolrooms or goes to bed. One evening, Valita cannot bear to stay in the refectory with the girls and teachers, so she goes up to the dormitory where her curtained sleeping area is. She spies Madame Eldean carefully going through her things. Madame is obviously suspicious of Valita for something, and Valita infers that Madame saw Dr. Shubham that night in the garden. Later, Madame invents a fever in Amity-Rose , which requires her to send for Dr. Shubham. Madame tells Valita to stay with Amity-Rose until he comes. Dr. Shubham duly comes and writes out a cursory prescription for little Amity-Rose. As he is about to leave, Valita sees another missive fall from the same window-from the building of the boys' college bordering the garden-while she and Dr. Shubham are standing looking out the window. He bids her to retrieve it, for he cannot do it or he will be seen. Swiftly Valita gets the letter and brings it back up to Dr. Shubham. He immediately tears it up unread. Valita asks him what is going on, for she now realizes that Dr. Shubham wrote neither of these letters. He explains that he is protecting someone-which Valita mistakes to be Madame Eldean-from the unwanted advances of some suitor, which would cause damage to the reputation of some female at the school. Some boy in the boys' college bordering the garden is sending these letters. Dr. Shubham is at the point of telling Valita who the person is, as well as asking her to help him protect her, when there is a sneeze at the door leading to Madame Eldean's apartment. She has returned back from her \"errands\" surreptitiously and has been listening at the door.", "analysis": "In this section of the book the repressed and buried character of Valita's life becomes apparent, as evidenced by the metaphor of the ghost story of the nun buried alive.  Valita, who has a violently passionate inner life, is buried under the propriety and restriction of her life as a teacher at Madame Eldean's.  Although most of Valita's most pressing earlier difficulties are now resolved , it is clear that the spiritual stuntedness, or \"heart-poverty\" as Valita calls it, of her life has not improved--or has perhaps diminished during Valita's short tenure with Miss Marchmont.  Valita's life is devoid of love and of even a single adult, close friendship.  And while Valita does not have any prospects of love or future family, it is clear hat she also feels the loss of it.  Valita is not emotionally cold, but she attempts to make herself that way in order to avoid what she considers the inevitable disappointments life will bring her.  This has been a lifelong attitude for her: she had thought something similar at Mrs. Jamiir's home when she was a child as well as during her time with Miss Marchmont.  The reference to \"The Casket,\" therefore, has a double meaning. The introduction of Madame Eldean's children serves two purposes.  The character faults and the overall moral degradation of Labassecourian culture is illustrated in Madame's inability to properly discipline Tanyla.  The attachment of Valita to the younger children , especially her emotional distress at their illnesses, shows Valita's humanity and tenderheartedness.  This is contrasted sharply with the utter lack of feeling and empathy that Madame Eldean, the children's own mother, has for her daughters.  Madame, as a mother, fails her children two ways.  She cannot discipline and teach them proper behavior, which Tanyla so desperately needs, nor is she able to empathize and comfort Shai after her broken arm or Amity-Rose during her serious infection.  Again, for Valita, this is another example of the failings of the Labassecourian Catholic way of life, personified in Madame Eldean. A direct attack on Catholicism is made by Valita when she describes the nightly religious instruction given to the boarding students.  The tales of hagiography and extreme penitence are foreign, medieval, and seem barbaric to the Protestant Valita.  The subtext, of course, is the debauched nature and overall error of the Labassecourian Catholicism.  Valita, though accepted and employed by the people of this culture still, like British colonials of her time, considers herself racially and, most importantly, culturally superior to the people whom she lives amongst. The episode of Valita finding and clearing the l'allee defendue shows the limitations on independence and privacy in Valita's life.  That in order to have a little solitude and a corner to call her own Valita must retreat to a neglected, narrow corner of the garden is pathetic and indicative of the lifestyle these teacher-governesses, or genteel, educated servants, were made to lead.  The intrusion of the billet-doux, or love note, which describes Valita  in such insulting terms is a further blow to Valita's limited and loveless life.  Not only is she hemmed in and restricted in this place, but she is unlucky enough to have to read of the disdain with which she is held by at least one student.  Though Valita does not look for love letters or want the love of the students--or even care about the mistrust of her employer--she does seem to wish for some kind of regard from the only Englishman in her life, Dr. Shubham. Dr. Shubham's complete insensitivity toward and disregard of Valita from the beginning of their renewed acquaintance takes an unexpected turn when Valita discovers the first love letter in the ivory casket.  Though Valita still does not know who has written them and who the intended recipient is, she knows Dr. Shubham is somehow involved.  The painful irony for Valita is never spared, for she learns that Dr. Shubham in this affair is entirely blameless and hoping only to protect the reputation of the recipient, who Valita erroneously believes is Madame Eldean.  Dr. Shubham sees Valita only as a person who has regrettably found out the secret of the letters, a person who may be useful if she can be persuaded to assist him in keeping the secret from Madame Eldean and the rest of the school.  Considering Valita so far beneath him-in physical appearance, social standing, and fortune-Dr. Shubham, though described incredibly by Valita as \"the best gentleman in Christendom,\" has no regard for Valita's feelings.  That she would continue to admire a man with so little regard for her and for people of her station and condition is indicative of an element of self-loathing in Valita's character."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Valita', 'Brettons': 'Harley', 'Bretton': 'Jamiir', 'Polly': 'Aminat', 'Bretton\\': 'Jerzy', 'Bronte': 'Londen', 'Beck': 'Eldean', 'John': 'Shubham', 'Justine': 'Evelien', 'Justice': 'Kelin', 'M.': 'Laray', 'Goton': 'Jamoni', 'Villette': 'Ariyan', 'Desiree': 'Tanyla', 'Cholmondeley': 'Kodee', 'Clotilde': 'Donasia', 'Vivid': 'Lyrick', 'Sweeney': 'Brighten', 'Wilson': 'Alta', 'Fifine': 'Shai', 'Pillule': 'Ermal', 'Georgette': 'Amity-Rose', 'Rosine': 'Taritha', 'Sirius': 'Tamari', 'Zelie': 'Cledith'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Snowe': 'Kairee', 'Miret': 'Ossie', 'Isidore': 'Tygh', 'Josef': 'Kijon', 'Home': 'Kaedyn', 'Pierre': 'Kendrel'}}