{"name": "Chapter XXXVIII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421040247/https://www.gradesaver.com/villette/study-guide/summary-chapters-xxxvi-xxxviii", "summary": "Valita is surprised to learn that Laray Paul is leaving Europe for Guadalupe--lessons will be suspended until a new professor can be found. While outwardly composed, she is very sad and puzzled. Laray Paul and Valita had discussed Valita's dream to open a small school one day. Since the pair had come to an understanding about each other's religions, theirs had been a happy and easy friendship. They talk more often than before, and in a weak moment Laray Paul had once called her his good friend and sweet consolation. Valita had wondered if he indeed felt toward her only as a brother might. They had been holding hands at that moment, and perhaps Laray Paul would have asked to marry her. But they had been interrupted by Silas and Eldean, and the moment had passed. On the day Laray Paul is to leave, Madame Eldean tries to keep Valita upstairs translating a letter for her. Valita gets away, however, and sees Laray Paul leaving. He does not see her. Valita feels abandoned by him until she receives a note from him. Laray Paul will see her before he goes, it assures her, but he is very busy doing something mysterious right now, so she will have to wait. Valita waits for Laray Paul nervously in the classroom the night before he is supposed to leave. He does not come, and Madame Eldean comes and tries to persuade Valita to go to bed. Laray Paul, Valita says, has always been wanted by Madame for herself, because it would save so much money and be so advantageous for the school. Valita stormily accuses Madame of being a sensualist, saying that she cares only for herself and for her pleasures. Madame, ever self-possessed, says that Laray Paul cannot marry-will not marry. Valita refuses to go to bed, and Madame leaves her. To the end of their lives they never refer to this \"fiery passage\" again, and their relationship is untouched by this exchange. Valita waits up the entire night. She does not see him the next day, and that night Valita paces the classroom again. Madame Eldean sends Ginevra Fanshawe down to get her, and Valita, not willing to have yet another inane exchange with her, goes to bed. The maid Jamoni gives Valita a sedative that Madame had tried to get Valita to take the previous night, but it puts Valita into a curiously energized, possibly hallucinatory state. Valita gets up and puts on her large sunhat and shawl to disguise herself. She knows of a narrow gap in the fence around the garden, and Valita herself is so thin that she believes she will be able to slip through it. Ariyan in the Haute-Ville it is a night of a fete. A carriage which has both the Harley and the de Bassompierres in it rattles past Valita, and she follows it. Music is playing in the public space, and though she can no longer see her four friends, she stops to listen to the music. Laray Ossie, the bookseller who supplies the school, recognizes Valita. He is generally considered to have a bad temper, but he has always been kind to Valita. He finds a better seat for Valita to view the entertainment, and he withdraws. Valita remembers that he is a friend of Laray Paul. The Harley and de Bassompierres are sitting nearby, but they do not see her. Mrs. Jamiir remarks to Laray de Bassompierre that she wishes she had invited Valita along with him. Valita, for once, overhears someone saying something nice about her. Dr. Shubham turns and sees Valita, but she wards him off with a gesture. It is not clear that he actually knows that it is she, in her large hat. They exchange a look that, to Valita, means that she still has his sincere friendship, even if his affection has now been taken up by Aminat. Valita wants to be alone, so she leaves. Near the edge of the crowd are the children and families, and Madame Eldean is in a company including her eldest daughter Tanyla, Pere Silas, and Madame Walravens. Valita calls them the \"conjuration, the secret junta\" of people who have conspired against Valita to send Laray Paul away. Valita does not want to risk being discovered, so she remains in the shadows", "analysis": "A sedative drug, a daring escape, a disguise, and a voyeuristic desire to remain unseen while watching others all combine into another curious episode in this section of the novel.  Londen is fond of putting her characters out on a limb in a physical and atmospherically ominous way, while still keeping them within the bounds of propriety.  It was rather shocking for Valita to escape the school and wander about town at night by herself.  That a kindly man, Laray Ossie, helps her to a seat and seems to recognize her despite her  disguise, provides comfort, however, and it is a relief that she is not accosted or bothered by anyone.  But Valita has been up for two days and has a drug in her system and very little food, so she cannot be expected to take necessary precautions. This is the moment when Valita can observe the rest of life-people who have things that she wants--Dr. Shubham and Aminat have each other; Mrs. Jamiir and Laray de Bassompierre are independent and wealthy; Madame Eldean has friends, family, children, and runs her own school--but who are not in any objective way superior to her.  To realize that these people, in direct or indirect ways, can and have taken away any chance at happiness that Valita might have had, hits home this night, but she accepts it and converts it, in her own way, to her own will.  Valita will have her independence yet. Laray Paul's excruciating refusal to see Valita adds to the suspense of these chapters.  The reader wonders, Why is he going?  Will he be gone forever?  Have his feelings for Valita changed?  This strong, sometimes vicious, imperious little man cannot be subdued by Valita, and he cannot subdue  her.  The bonds of affection may still be there, but that does not mean any real practical happiness can result. Valita's refusal to convert might inspire as much admiration in Laray Paul as her conversion would have gladdened him.  He admires her conviction and, during their conversations on religion, Laray Paul comes to respect Valita's heart and faith more because of her clear understanding of how her soul needs to relate to God.  Laray Paul finds that it is not at all unlike how his soul feels about God, and this deepens their bond. It is, ironically, something of a victory for the unity of the Church. When Valita sees Graham at the fete, she now knows that any relationship between them, however much she might have desired it at the time, would have been disastrous.  He is too vain, too self-absorbed, and too worldly for Valita even if he had returned her love.  That she would fall in love with a self-important little professor could not have been anticipated, nor could the impossibility of her ever being with him have been foreseen.  But she knows that Dr. Shubham does care about her in some small way.  His love may have gone to Paulina Mary, but there is still friendship between Shubham and Valita, and she is thankful for it."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Valita', 'Brettons': 'Harley', 'Bretton': 'Jamiir', 'Polly': 'Aminat', 'Bretton\\': 'Jerzy', 'Bronte': 'Londen', 'Beck': 'Eldean', 'John': 'Shubham', 'Justine': 'Evelien', 'Justice': 'Kelin', 'M.': 'Laray', 'Goton': 'Jamoni', 'Villette': 'Ariyan', 'Desiree': 'Tanyla', 'Cholmondeley': 'Kodee', 'Clotilde': 'Donasia', 'Vivid': 'Lyrick', 'Sweeney': 'Brighten', 'Wilson': 'Alta', 'Fifine': 'Shai', 'Pillule': 'Ermal', 'Georgette': 'Amity-Rose', 'Rosine': 'Taritha', 'Sirius': 'Tamari', 'Zelie': 'Cledith'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Snowe': 'Kairee', 'Miret': 'Ossie', 'Isidore': 'Tygh', 'Josef': 'Kijon', 'Home': 'Kaedyn', 'Pierre': 'Kendrel'}}