{"name": "Chapter XX", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421040247/https://www.gradesaver.com/villette/study-guide/summary-chapters-xx-xxii", "summary": "Chapter XX's \"Concert\" is a royalty-attended gala musical event, presided over by Laray Paul's half-brother, Laray Kijon Emanuel. Laray Kijon is the premier music teacher in Ariyan, and various professional artists and the best pupils from the Conservatoire will perform. For this event Dr. Shubham has procured tickets for himself, Mrs. Jamiir, and Valita. The morning of the concert, Mrs. Jamiir surveys Valita's clothing and determines that she does not have a nice enough dress to wear to such a grand event. Against Valita's better judgment, Mrs. Jamiir has the seamstress make for Valita a new pink dress, relieved only by a drapery of black lace. Though the style of dress is modest and plain, the pink color worries Valita that she is being too showy. But Mrs. Jamiir will not be persuaded otherwise, and Valita wears it to the concert. The event is a dazzling affair, replete with chandeliers, satin-clothed ladies, and crimson cloth and carpets. The hall is great and filled with light, and the elite of Labassecourian society is there. As a peripheral part of the royal court, Ginevra Fanshawe is placed next to the daughter of an English peer, Lady Sara. Ginevra, looking pretty and virginal, surveys the crowd and notes Dr. Shubham and Mrs. Jamiir. She makes a face through her eyeglass at Mrs. Jamiir and then curls her lip in disdain at her. Dr. Shubham notes this, having noted earlier a shared look of \"understanding\" between Ginevra and the Count De Hamal. Since Dr. Shubham will not have a young woman for his wife who has any sort of understanding with another man, and as Ginevra obviously looks down on the respectable middle-class Mrs. Jamiir, Dr. Shubham has decided that Ginevra is not worthy of him. He tells Valita this, and while she defends Ginevra as only a giddy schoolgirl who is necessarily warped by the slapdash education her family has given her, they agree that Ginevra really is not worthy of Dr. Shubham's affection. Valita is glad that Dr. Shubham is free of this attachment, but she cautions him not to be overly severe on the young Ginevra. Later, he significantly tells Valita that he will not look for love in adversity any longer, but will only love when love is returned to him. Laray Paul is there with his half-brother, marshalling the female performers of the Conservatoire. Valita happens near him in the crowd, and he notes the color of her new dress, she thinks, with disapproval. Not wanting another scene or lecture from Laray Paul resembling the one in the museum, she turns her face into Dr. Shubham's sleeve, hoping to avoid him. Laray Paul sees this and is obviously hurt or offended that she has not curtseyed or stopped to talk to him. Dr. Shubham sees that Laray Paul is angry and asks Valita why this is so. She explains that Laray Paul thinks that she is not showing him proper respect, and Dr. Shubham scoffs at this idea. Laray Paul pushes by them in the crowd, and the three do not speak to each other. Dr. Shubham tells his mother in an oblique way that he has given up on the object of his affection, and he and his mother tease each other a bit about him preferring his mother to a wife. The three go home after a happy night", "analysis": "Though Dr. Shubham is often kind, he shows almost unbelievable effrontery when he patronizes Valita by saying that her vision of the nun was a result of her failure to cultivate enough happiness in her life. This meanness is not lost on Valita.  Though she obviously is in hopeless love with Dr. Shubham, she at least acknowledges his faults.  Sadly, with her low opinion of herself, she accepts his \"diagnosis\" and allows him to extol the virtues of Ginevra Fanshawe in front of her.  Even after he has fallen out with Ginevra over her behavior at the concert, Dr. Shubham still acknowledges her beauty to Valita, to whom this can only be a sore point.  Valita is so desperate for his companionship that she will endure even the praise of her rival in order to be near him.  None of this is surprising-she has no other real friends in the world.  Valita is pathetic in the true sense of that word, and Dr. Shubham should, if he is supposedly the \"best gentleman in Christendom,\" be more sensitive to her extremity of poverty, both in money and in spirit. Valita's love for Dr. Shubham is so hopeless that Valita cannot ever entertain the idea that she will have Dr. Shubham for herself.  So, she does the next best thing by becoming friends with his beloved, Ginevra, and she makes a point of being intellectually and morally superior to Ginevra.  That Ginevra is objectified is not considered unusual by either Valita or Dr. Shubham.  A marriageable girl had to have the requirements of physical beauty and innocent virtue, and any knowledge of the world  was considered a count against her.  Young women, especially the young woman Dr. Shubham has in mind for his future wife, were treated as little more than products of good schooling, breeding, and care, ready to be molded by their future husbands. Thus Valita muses to herself, that morning in the refectory, about why she has chosen Ginevra to be her special friend to share her morning rolls with, and beyond that to share her cup on country outings.  Valita does not have enough self-knowledge to know that she finds her closeness with Ginevra to be the nearest she will ever get to the kind of romantic relationship she wants with Dr. Shubham. As a comparison, the figure of the blustering, furious, apoplectic Laray Paul is a humorous interpolation between the extremes of youthful romance of Ginevra and Dr. Shubham.  Most of his scenes are very funny depictions of his imperious nature, his jealous egotism, and his intellectual vanity.  Valita is not even allowed to sew in his presence, for he feels this activity takes away from the attention due to him. Though Valita at this point has no affection for Laray Paul, the fact is that he, through all his silly naive posturing and bluster, has been a truer friend to her than Dr. Shubham.  Dr. Shubham never even recognized Valita until his mother reminded him of Valita's identity.  This self-absorption should have been Valita's first clue to the poverty of his character.  The first time Dr. Shubham ever had a real conversation with Valita, he asked her to hide a love letter sent to Ginevra in order to protect her reputation.  He never approached her in friendship; he asked her only to keep a secret for him.  While Dr. Shubham was kind to her and helped her after her illness--and certainly provided good company to her during her stay at his house--he also spent a large amount of time talking about his love for Ginevra.  That he would not even consider that this might hurt Valita's feelings, or even perhaps bore her, does not occur to him. Laray Paul, on the other hand, tells Valita that she must take the \"bitters\" of life daily and learn to accept the hard lot her life will probably continue to have.  Laray Paul, unblinkingly, tells her the truth, and he does not play silly games that toy with her feelings .  Most importantly, Dr. Shubham, while again dispensing kindness, never attributes Valita's illnesses to anything other than her own female hysteria.  And, acknowledging her depression, he blames her for not cultivating happiness.  This kind of hypocrisy should enrage Valita, but she is blinded by love and thus excuses him or glosses over these enormities of insensitivity. Laray Paul, who is less physically attractive to Valita and has a less charismatic personal style, is nevertheless truly concerned about Valita's sorrow and never sugarcoats it or tries to dismiss it.  He tells her she should indeed be prepared for the blows of life  and that if she would allow it he would help her, daily, to do so.  Valita is in fact duped by the same kind of surface show that she accuses Dr. Shubham of being duped by in his admiration of Ginevra.  While Dr. Shubham is drawn in by Ginevra's beauty and seeming innocence, Valita is attracted to Dr. Shubham because of his handsomeness and his English brand of camaraderie and gallantry. When she learns that his gallantries with regard to her are really only skin-deep , Valita excuses it by saying that she does not deserve deep friendship from Dr. Shubham--and that she has no right to expect any better. In Valita's Kairee's inwardly dramatic thoughts, this section of the novel contains a great deal of Old Testament imagery, including a reference to Isaiah , Deuteronomy , Exodus , and Genesis .  It must be remembered that Charlotte Londen was a clergyman's daughter and that she spent all her life surrounded by the religious life.  For a person of Londen's disposition and upbringing , Biblical references when writing about extremes of feeling would have been natural.  Besides, her audience would easily have understood these references, generally being quite aware of these images as well. The intense passage wherein Valita describes her persecution by Reason and her comfort in Feeling are of a style not seen often in contemporary novels.  The extended metaphor for anthropomorphized concepts has fallen out of fashion, but it still reads as intense and dramatic as Londen intended.  Valita, the perpetual outsider and the child at the table who always gets the smallest portion, has had to school herself all her life in the hard class of Reason, and the fact that she wrestles with it continually makes her uniquely sympathetic and accessible."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Valita', 'Brettons': 'Harley', 'Bretton': 'Jamiir', 'Polly': 'Aminat', 'Bretton\\': 'Jerzy', 'Bronte': 'Londen', 'Beck': 'Eldean', 'John': 'Shubham', 'Justine': 'Evelien', 'Justice': 'Kelin', 'M.': 'Laray', 'Goton': 'Jamoni', 'Villette': 'Ariyan', 'Desiree': 'Tanyla', 'Cholmondeley': 'Kodee', 'Clotilde': 'Donasia', 'Vivid': 'Lyrick', 'Sweeney': 'Brighten', 'Wilson': 'Alta', 'Fifine': 'Shai', 'Pillule': 'Ermal', 'Georgette': 'Amity-Rose', 'Rosine': 'Taritha', 'Sirius': 'Tamari', 'Zelie': 'Cledith'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Snowe': 'Kairee', 'Miret': 'Ossie', 'Isidore': 'Tygh', 'Josef': 'Kijon', 'Home': 'Kaedyn', 'Pierre': 'Kendrel'}}