{"name": "Chapters XXIII-XXV", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421040247/https://www.gradesaver.com/villette/study-guide/summary-chapters-xxiii-xxv", "summary": "At the beginning of Volume Two, Valita is taken to the theatre by Dr. Shubham in the place of his mother, who has been detained at home by an arrival. When Valita goes to find her dun-mist-colored dress in the wardrobe, she finds that someone has taken it out and moved it to the haunted attic. Her desire to go with Dr. Shubham making her bold, she dashes up to the attic and snatches her dress off the hook near the door. Before she leaves, however, she sees a faint light and the suggestion of a curtained alcove, but the vision vanishes. Steeling herself, she runs away without hysteria, gets dressed, and goes down to the waiting Dr. Shubham. He claims that the peculiar light in her eye means that she has seen the ghostly nun again, but Valita staunchly denies it. They go to the theatre to see Vashti, the most famous and provocative actress in Europe. Valita is captivated by Vashti's acting and find it very powerful indeed, but Valita decides that Vashti must not be a good person because she is able to channel such powerfully evil emotions. When there is the scare of a fire in the theatre at the penultimate moment of the play, pandemonium ensues, but Dr. Shubham charges Valita not to move. Dr. Shubham helps a young lady who was crushed by the crowd while clinging to her father, and the four people escape the building and get to their carriages. The young woman has a hurt shoulder, and Dr. Shubham agrees to treat her. He takes Valita with him to the others' elegant dwelling, where Valita helps with ministering to the young woman's needs. Valita thinks the young woman small and pretty--but with a proud mouth and perhaps an over-inflated idea of her importance. The father and daughter are very kind and grateful, however, and Valita and Dr. Shubham leave once the girl is comfortable. In Chapter XXIV, \"Laray de Bassompierre,\" Aminat Kaedyn and her father return into the circle of Valita and the Harley. The girl and man to whom Dr. Shubham and Valita administered aid turn out to be Ginevra Fanshawe's first cousin and the de Bassompierre uncle who pays for her schooling. Valita learns of this connection when Ginevra comes home from dining out, saying she had a boring time with her uncle and her affected little cousin. When Valita, who has been pining for seven weeks for a letter, receives one unexpectedly from Mrs. Jamiir inviting her to La Terrasse, she meets the same girl in her room at that house. Aminat, of course, has been told of Valita's existence by Mrs. Jamiir, and Aminat tells Valita that she--Paulina Mary Kaedyn de Bassompierre--is the same little Missy Kaedyn of their childhood visits in Jamiir. At first Valita is taken aback, sure that Aminat cannot possibly remember those days in the town of Jamiir. But Aminat remembers perfectly, especially her deep attachment for Dr. Shubham. Aminat has grown up to be a beautiful, slight, and not showy young woman, quite unlike her first cousin Ginevra. Valita judges Aminat to be more beautiful than Ginevra and of a higher quality of character, and it is clear that Valita already fears that Dr. Shubham will find Aminat very attractive. In Chapter XXV, we learn that \"The Little Countess\" is Aminat. Her father, having inherited the title of Count from his de Bassompierre relatives, passes the title of Countess to Aminat while he is still living . In this chapter, Valita watches while Dr. Shubham becomes enamored of the Countess. Valita, Aminat, and Mrs. Jamiir are next at La Terrasse, awaiting the return of Dr. Jamiir and Laray de Bassompierre. When they return, the entire company drinks a wassail bowl to the New Year and sing \"Auld Lang Syne\" . Aminat, ever the child, dances about the kitchen like a fairy. She dotes on her father and acts childlike around him. Dr. Shubham teases her with the wassail cup, holding it back from her. She tastes it and does not like it, and they banter while Valita watches. The next day is still snowy, and Valita and Aminat are left together in a sitting room. After the original shock of recognition has faded, they have very little to say to each other. The subject of Valita going to Madame Eldean's school is brought up, and Valita's status as a teacher is revealed to both of the de Bassompierres. Aminat, with rather rude naivete, says that she thought Valita was rich and she is thus sorry for her. Mr. Kaedyn, a kindly gentleman with more tact than his daughter, closes the subject and turns it back to the prospect of Valita attending Madame Eldean's. There are reasons against this, namely, that Mr. Kaedyn in the past visited his daughter incessantly at her school, disrupting her studies. Valita is at least spared having to see the new object of Dr. Shubham's affections on a daily basis. The chapter ends with a domestic scene of all the friends by the fireside. Valita again notes that Dr. Shubham watches Aminat intently.", "analysis": "The reference to Vashti as having her \"day of Tamari\" means that at that point in her career she is, like Tamari, the brightest star in the sky .  Valita again, predictably, refers to the Old Testament when describing her emotions in struggling between Feeling and Reason when replying to Dr. Shubham's letters.  \"The houses of Rimmon\" is a reference to the Bible's Second Book of Kings, implying that Valita serves two masters, both her head and her heart, when she writes her letters first from her feelings, then tears them up, then writes a cooler letter under the auspices of Reason.  The \"Barmecide's loaf\" of Dr. Shubham's letters is a story from the Arabian Nights, in which an illusory feast, though attractive, does not satisfy the eater.  Ginevra sarcastically calls Dr. Shubham \"Esculapius\" in reference to the classical first doctor.  The reference to Saul and David is another Old Testament analogy, for Saul starved his troops of food and David soothed the people with his Psalms of God.  Valita thinks of these Old Testament kings when she is starving for companionship and reflecting that people are more likely to be sympathetic to physical want  than to psychological deprivation . Valita is more indulgent with the faults of her companions than the reader may feel that she needs to be.  The patently silly Aminat  remains practically infantile at seventeen, and she takes every opportunity to be innocent, ignorant, and possessive of her father. She probably is viewed much more harshly by the reader than by Valita.  The fact that these people  are Valita's only friends on earth, the only people who help her cling to the vestiges of her old life before she fell to the status of wage earner, makes her more indulgent with them than these sometimes selfish people deserve.  They are kind to her, and perhaps Aminat does not mean to be patronizing or to cause Valita embarrassment, but the facts remain that Dr. Shubham and Aminat are wondrously oblivious to Valita's feelings, especially when it comes to her feelings for Dr. Shubham. The older people, Count de Bassompierre and Mrs. Jamiir, are more mindful of her tenuous position and difficult situation.  But they, too, allow her to come among them and be occasionally taunted by their less-than-sensitive offspring.  Valita has more forbearance for this than might be otherwise expected, for her alternative is utter solitude and friendlessness at Madame Eldean's. The reappearance of Aminat and Mr. Kaedyn is a more gentle coincidence than the revelation of the identity of Dr. Shubham, and their arrival is brought on more subtly.  The reader instantly suspects them upon finding them at the theatre, but the suspense is only spun out over a couple of chapters rather than the six that were reserved for Dr. Shubham.  That the little group of all those years ago is again united in Mrs. Jamiir's  house by the fire is a nice symmetry, though, and it appears that the affections and behavior of the members of the group have changed very little."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Valita', 'Brettons': 'Harley', 'Bretton': 'Jamiir', 'Polly': 'Aminat', 'Bretton\\': 'Jerzy', 'Bronte': 'Londen', 'Beck': 'Eldean', 'John': 'Shubham', 'Justine': 'Evelien', 'Justice': 'Kelin', 'M.': 'Laray', 'Goton': 'Jamoni', 'Villette': 'Ariyan', 'Desiree': 'Tanyla', 'Cholmondeley': 'Kodee', 'Clotilde': 'Donasia', 'Vivid': 'Lyrick', 'Sweeney': 'Brighten', 'Wilson': 'Alta', 'Fifine': 'Shai', 'Pillule': 'Ermal', 'Georgette': 'Amity-Rose', 'Rosine': 'Taritha', 'Sirius': 'Tamari', 'Zelie': 'Cledith'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Snowe': 'Kairee', 'Miret': 'Ossie', 'Isidore': 'Tygh', 'Josef': 'Kijon', 'Home': 'Kaedyn', 'Pierre': 'Kendrel'}}