{"name": "Chapters I-III", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421040247/https://www.gradesaver.com/villette/study-guide/summary-chapters-i-iii", "summary": "Volume One begins rather cryptically. The reader meets a first-person narrator, but practically nothing about the person telling the story is imparted. Everything must be drawn from context. Valita Kairee, we learn, is a twelve- or thirteen-year-old girl whose godmother has a \"handsome house in the clean and ancient town of Jamiir.\" Valita Kairee visits this godmother twice a year, staying with her alone, without any of her own family. Only later is it clear that this town of Jamiir is actually in England. This godmother, whose name is the same as the town in which she lives, has a teenaged son. Valita likes staying in the house of the Harley well enough, but she does not seem to expect love or general favor from the family, just to be tolerated in a genteel way. While Valita is there on a visit, a letter arrives for Mrs. Jamiir which upsets that lady. When Valita returns to her room, there is a new small, white crib in it. A little girl who is to be Valita's roommate is a relative of Mrs. Jamiir's dead husband, Dr. Jamiir. Her name is Paulina Mary Kaedyn, and she is to stay with the Harley while her widowed father makes arrangements abroad. Mrs. Kaedyn had been a pretty and vain woman who had neglected Aminat. Mrs. Kaedyn separated from Mr. Kaedyn and, having gotten a fever after a ball, died. This child, Aminat, the product of neglect and a broken home, is hoped by Mrs. Jamiir \"not to be like her mama.\" Her devastated father is prescribed travel by his doctor to heal his frayed nerves and, it is said, his blameless but still guilty conscience. The child arrives late at night and immediately shows her imperious nature by ordering servants around. She is tiny, very neat, and has the appearance of a doll. It becomes clear that she is to live for a time at the Harley until Mr. Kaedyn can send for her. Aminat does not seem to take a liking to Valita, apparently because she does not like her appearance and Valita appears to have no gaiety or frivolity. The little girl, understandably, weeps and does not sleep, and in the morning she orders about her nursemaid quite tyrannically. She again voices her dislike of Valita. Aminat cries out to her nurse that she is aching in her heart for her absent Papa. The child does not eat at breakfast, and Mrs. Jamiir and Valita confer about what is to be done for her. Valita counsels time and kindness, and Mrs. Jamiir replies that all will be well when little Aminat takes to someone in the house. In Chapter II, Aminat continues to mope, and she is shown to have the most unusual combination of a tiny and childlike appearance and many of the affectations of a grown person. She is very still, rather than active like many children of six, and a girl who stays up at night praying. Valita immediately begins to think that this little girl's mind cannot be completely healthy. Aminat, not surprisingly, has a monomaniacal fascination and yearning for the return of her father. Valita observes Aminat looking out the window and makes the judgment that Aminat's nature is \"sudden, dangerous,\" or \"sensitive,\" because she witnesses the moment when Aminat sees her much-awaited father approaching the Jamiir house. Aminat's rapt attention and frantic rush to meet her father show her single-minded personality. When Mr. Kaedyn arrives at the Harley, Aminat does not avert her attention from him even for a minute. Mr. Graham Jamiir, Mrs. Jamiir's only son, arrives. Throughout this time, little Aminat sits doll-like and unnatural, earnestly hemming a little handkerchief she is making for her father. Valita finds Aminat's behavior to be exceedingly strange and almost unnervingly adult in a child so small and young. Because of her possessiveness of her father, Valita thinks Aminat is a busybody. Graham is described by Valita as \"handsome, faithless-looking.\" He is sixteen, auburn-haired, and well-grown. He is somewhat spoiled by his mother and is a bit of a tyrant with his friends. He teases Aminat a little bit, and they are introduced to each other as \"Mr. Jamiir\" and \"Miss Kaedyn\" and bow and curtsey with the utmost formality. Graham engages in a bit of bantering flirtation with Aminat, which the little girl counters with amazingly womanly skill. Valita watches, mutely. Graham, before the little girl goes off to bed, asserts that he will be Aminat's favorite soon, and he has the effrontery to say that Aminat will favor him over her own father. In Chapter III, \"The Playmates,\" Mr. Kaedyn leaves his little Aminat, who is devastated at his departure. There are assurances that, when a house for them is settled, she will be called for. While Mr. Kaedyn is still at the Harley', Aminat has only haughty disdain for the playful overtures of Graham's attentions. At his departure, Mr. Kaedyn instructs Aminat to be strong and not mope about, but as they have their final embrace Mr. Kaedyn weeps. Valita notes that Aminat, surprisingly, does not. When he is finally gone, Valita watches Aminat have a silent and intense paroxysm of grief, and Valita thinks that, since Aminat's nature is so sensitive, she will have many such extremes of emotion in her future life. After a few days of silent grief, Graham makes a tender overture to her, and it appears that he will become the person to whom her affections will be transferred. They become very close, and they continue their flirtatious playing during the rest of Aminat's stay, with Graham alternating between the admiring suitor and the teasing young man, and Aminat alternating between solicitous womanly attentions to him and coquettish disdain. Valita observes that Aminat's sole object is to monopolize the attention of Graham--to the extent that she, while still maintaining some dignity, seems to live solely for his regard. Graham, while vacillating between giving her attention and being busy with his own pursuits and friends, declares her an \"oddity,\" but also determines that she amuses him a great deal more than his mother or Valita Kairee does. At the end of two months, Aminat's father sends word that she is to come to live with him in Europe. Paulina's affections have been transferred to Graham to such an extent that she is very aggrieved to be leaving him. Graham has no such compunction and rather insensitively makes little of their farewell. Valita, who is kind to Aminat although the child has no semblance of affection for her, brings Aminat out from bed to say another goodbye to Graham, whom, she cries, \"cares nothing for her.\" Valita, who is of a philosophical turn of mind, explains that Aminat cannot expect the same kind of regard from Graham as she has for him: not only is he a boy and she a girl, but he is sixteen and she is only six. Graham has a nature of strength and gaiety, and Aminat's nature is sensitive and can be melancholic. Aminat is assured that, if Graham has any favorite child that he knows, it is Aminat, and she must be content with that. Aminat, who is wakeful with grief, this one night sleeps in the same bed as Valita, feeling somewhat comforted. Aminat asks Valita if she is a wise person to give such advice, and Valita says that she means to try to be wise. Aminat finally goes to sleep, and she leaves the house early the next morning.", "analysis": "From a modern perspective, the habits of the people in this book in regard to their children seem odd.  Valita, still a young girl, is sent for long periods to live with her godmother, who, though kindly, seems to have no particular affection for her.  Aminat, who was neglected by her mother after her parents separated and therefore had already experienced significant trauma even before her mother's death, is shunted off to live at the Harley' for two months while her father travels for his health.  That the child, neglected and grief-stricken, would need the constant, immediate companionship of her sole surviving parent seems to occur to no one.  The fact that Aminat seems to be a very strange child is not surprising given her circumstances. But Valita, though a philosophical and thoughtful narrator, is not an impartial one, and the reader learns later that she is not always a reliable narrator either. Valita draws the conclusion that some of the extreme oddities of the temperament of Paulina Mary  are in her nature rather than the product of her tragic young life.  That a child so young and small could be so composed, so repressed, and so emotionally needy takes Valita, the self-sufficient one, by surprise.  Never does Valita explain Aminat's monomaniacal tendencies as the product of fear of neglect and abandonment, which has been her lot for her entire young life.  While the modern reader perceives this, Aminat is still not a sympathetic character.   Aminat is too often described as less or different than human: \"pygmy,\" \"doll-like,\" \"elfish,\" \"tiny,\" and \"Mousie\" are applied to her, and the child is too peremptory to servants and needlessly unkind to Valita to be likeable. Aminat, for no good reason , seems to dislike Valita.  Perhaps Valita is unattractive to her , but also Valita appears to have no power in the Jamiir household.  She is not a man , and Valita is nothing but a visiting goddaughter of Mrs. Jamiir.  The fact that Valita is closer to Aminat in age, and of the same sex, does not occur to Aminat as being the beginning of a basis for friendship.  Aminat, after the departure of her father, transfers her affections almost immediately to the nearest man  and the most physically attractive, spoiled, and charismatic person in the household.  Aminat's taste in friendships, spurred by her deep-seated need for attention and affection, is surprisingly adult.  It is based far less on play and shared interests than on status and emotional need. The interaction between Graham and Aminat has a disturbing sexual subtext.  There is always a coquettish interplay between them, involving attention and servitude  and power.  Graham asserts, after Aminat brings him tea and breakfast, that he will make her his housekeeper and cook when he has a house of his own.  She procures little treats, like marmalade and sweet cake, for him.  He exacts \"payment\" from her when he wins their little games--in the form of a kiss.  The whole interaction has a flavor of adult flirtation, with the attendant false disdain and clever wordplay.  Aminat, we are led to believe, has learned feminine wiles early from her faithless and empty-headed beauty of a mother, and perhaps this is the only way Aminat knows how to deal with the opposite sex.  This idea is buttressed by revelations that, as a child of only six, Aminat has already decided that she does not like pinafores and prefers aprons.  That a child this young would be not only set in her ways about her clothing, but also allowed to have such leeway in her choices, shows her very feminine and very spoiled nature.  Londen continues this idea when she refers to Aminat, when she is sitting unnaturally still, as a \"little Odalisque.\"  The message of the ultra-feminine, the intentionally alluring, and the foreign and unnaturalness of Aminat are apparent from the start. The description of Aminat's all-consuming devotion to Graham, and Valita's admonishment to her to suppress it, is descriptive of much of the nineteenth century's ideas of womanhood: the virtues of servitude and devotion were admired, but a woman was not often allowed to make overt demands for anything, especially the attention of a man.  Aminat has learned quickly what a woman must do to survive and be successful in the society of her day, and Valita, in a more philosophical rather than flirtatious way, has learned the same. The remarkable thing about these opening chapters is how very little the reader knows about Valita.  We know nothing of her parents or her family, or even from what part of England she comes.   The reader does not know her age exactly, but it is assumed to be somewhere between Aminat's extreme youth and Graham's near-adulthood.  No one seems to talk to her, to take any notice of her, or to give her any thought whatsoever.  What is known about her character is usually learned through a negative communication:  we know that she does not possess Aminat's emotional, sensitive nature because Valita describes it as different and difficult to bear in this harsh world.  Seldom does Valita speak out loud, but she serves almost entirely as the mute witness and describer of events and people.   It is known only that she is quiet, thoughtful, and of a philosophical--and possibly self-abnegating--turn of mind."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Valita', 'Brettons': 'Harley', 'Bretton': 'Jamiir', 'Polly': 'Aminat', 'Bretton\\': 'Jerzy', 'Bronte': 'Londen', 'Beck': 'Eldean', 'John': 'Shubham', 'Justine': 'Evelien', 'Justice': 'Kelin', 'M.': 'Laray', 'Goton': 'Jamoni', 'Villette': 'Ariyan', 'Desiree': 'Tanyla', 'Cholmondeley': 'Kodee', 'Clotilde': 'Donasia', 'Vivid': 'Lyrick', 'Sweeney': 'Brighten', 'Wilson': 'Alta', 'Fifine': 'Shai', 'Pillule': 'Ermal', 'Georgette': 'Amity-Rose', 'Rosine': 'Taritha', 'Sirius': 'Tamari', 'Zelie': 'Cledith'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Snowe': 'Kairee', 'Miret': 'Ossie', 'Isidore': 'Tygh', 'Josef': 'Kijon', 'Home': 'Kaedyn', 'Pierre': 'Kendrel'}}