{"name": "Chapter XXI", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421040247/https://www.gradesaver.com/villette/study-guide/summary-chapters-xx-xxii", "summary": "Chapter XXI concerns the time after Valita returns back to Madame Eldean's. She is sad to leave the Harley, and they are sad to see her leave, trying to delay her departure. They leave each other on very good terms, and Dr. Jamiir promises that he will write and that his mother will come to visit. Valita, awake in the dormitory that night, wrestles with her conscience and with what she calls the personification of Reason, which counsels her not to put too much hope or happiness in the receipt of this letter. She thinks that if Dr. Shubham does write, he will only do so in a cursory manner, and only once, and she must be stern with herself and come to be happy only with that. She has a long discussion with herself concerning how Reason has given her only coldness and unhappiness in her life, which is all she should expect, while Feeling has always been her succor and has given her a respite from the unremitting dreariness that Reason says her life will be. This rather florid passage shows Valita's philosophic cast of mind as well as her desire to quell all emotions in her that might cause disappointment in the future, including her innocent hopes. Valita is downcast the next day, and Laray Paul sees her in the refectory alone. He comes in and tries to tell her to steel herself to her life and take her \"bitters\" daily, not to succumb to the \"sweet poison\" of vain hopes. Valita resents his sermonizing and, weeping, begs him to leave. Valita is reunited with Ginevra, and she tells her a patently false story of Dr. Shubham's distress at her turning her nose up at Mrs. Jamiir and her attention to Count De Hamal. Valita distorts the truth so much that Ginevra, in her vanity, believes that Dr. Shubham was in a perfect fit of jealousy and rage at seeing Ginevra, wearing the bracelet he gave to her, flirting with De Hamal. In reality, Dr. Shubham was perfectly self-possessed and only mildly regretful upon learning Ginevra's true nature. One day Valita is to have charge of a class while Laray Paul is to lecture, and he intercepts a letter for Valita from Dr. Shubham. Laray Paul gives it to Valita in front of the entire class, and, knowing whom it is from, she rushes upstairs and locks it in her case unread. She comes back to class and sees Laray Paul storming at the girls--he then turns his fury on Valita. She sits quietly and eventually begins to silently weep. She tells him she has no wish to insult him. He softens and gives her a clean silk handkerchief by way of apology. He finishes teaching the class, and after the girls are gone he mentions the letter. She says it is only from a friend, but he says he knows what friend that is. Valita tries to return Laray Paul's handkerchief, and he says she should keep until the letter is read; he will determine the tenor of the letter by the state of the handkerchief. When Valita thinks she is alone, she has a moment of happiness, and she tosses the handkerchief around like a toy or a ball. Laray Paul has been watching this, however, and he reaches over her shoulder and catches his handkerchief back, saying that she has been making fun of him with his possession. Valita thinks that Laray Paul, while making good points, is not a good little man. Valita gets a chance to read \"The Letter\" in chapter XXII. She creeps up to the unused attic with a candle. Valita, who for so long has been used to privation, disregard, and hostility is now so incredibly overjoyed by the contents of the kind, good-natured letter that she claims to feel more happiness in that moment than any queen in a palace. As she reads, a figure dressed in white and black, resembling a nun, comes toward her out of the shadows. Valita is terrified and rushes out of the attic. She rushes to Madame's sitting room, where a small company of people are assembled, including Dr. Shubham. The nearly hysterical Valita tells them that something is in the grenier , and they all go up to investigate. At first they claim that the objects there look to have been disturbed, and someone certainly must have been there, but Madame tells Valita later that she now fancies that things were much the same as always. Valita has left her letter from Dr. Shubham there, and she searches madly for it--but Dr. Shubham has secretly pocketed it. They go downstairs, and Shubham takes Valita into a small room to help comfort her. She continues to weep bitterly at the loss of her letter. Dr. Shubham, acting somewhat strangely, sees this and finally gives it back to her. He teases her that it is worth nothing, and the reader begins to think that he has an inkling of Valita's unsaid love for him and that he is doing his best to quash it. He tells her that possibly her vision of the nun came from her own depression. He tells her to cultivate happiness. Valita, sensibly though not aloud, observes that happiness is not a potato. She finds it peculiarly patronizing when people tell her to cultivate happiness, for she has had so little cause for happiness in her life and cultivation of it has been impossible. Dr. Shubham swears to tell no one what she saw, and he urges Valita never to mention it again in specific terms, for fear that she will be considered hysterical", "analysis": "Though Dr. Shubham is often kind, he shows almost unbelievable effrontery when he patronizes Valita by saying that her vision of the nun was a result of her failure to cultivate enough happiness in her life. This meanness is not lost on Valita.  Though she obviously is in hopeless love with Dr. Shubham, she at least acknowledges his faults.  Sadly, with her low opinion of herself, she accepts his \"diagnosis\" and allows him to extol the virtues of Ginevra Fanshawe in front of her.  Even after he has fallen out with Ginevra over her behavior at the concert, Dr. Shubham still acknowledges her beauty to Valita, to whom this can only be a sore point.  Valita is so desperate for his companionship that she will endure even the praise of her rival in order to be near him.  None of this is surprising-she has no other real friends in the world.  Valita is pathetic in the true sense of that word, and Dr. Shubham should, if he is supposedly the \"best gentleman in Christendom,\" be more sensitive to her extremity of poverty, both in money and in spirit. Valita's love for Dr. Shubham is so hopeless that Valita cannot ever entertain the idea that she will have Dr. Shubham for herself.  So, she does the next best thing by becoming friends with his beloved, Ginevra, and she makes a point of being intellectually and morally superior to Ginevra.  That Ginevra is objectified is not considered unusual by either Valita or Dr. Shubham.  A marriageable girl had to have the requirements of physical beauty and innocent virtue, and any knowledge of the world  was considered a count against her.  Young women, especially the young woman Dr. Shubham has in mind for his future wife, were treated as little more than products of good schooling, breeding, and care, ready to be molded by their future husbands. Thus Valita muses to herself, that morning in the refectory, about why she has chosen Ginevra to be her special friend to share her morning rolls with, and beyond that to share her cup on country outings.  Valita does not have enough self-knowledge to know that she finds her closeness with Ginevra to be the nearest she will ever get to the kind of romantic relationship she wants with Dr. Shubham. As a comparison, the figure of the blustering, furious, apoplectic Laray Paul is a humorous interpolation between the extremes of youthful romance of Ginevra and Dr. Shubham.  Most of his scenes are very funny depictions of his imperious nature, his jealous egotism, and his intellectual vanity.  Valita is not even allowed to sew in his presence, for he feels this activity takes away from the attention due to him. Though Valita at this point has no affection for Laray Paul, the fact is that he, through all his silly naive posturing and bluster, has been a truer friend to her than Dr. Shubham.  Dr. Shubham never even recognized Valita until his mother reminded him of Valita's identity.  This self-absorption should have been Valita's first clue to the poverty of his character.  The first time Dr. Shubham ever had a real conversation with Valita, he asked her to hide a love letter sent to Ginevra in order to protect her reputation.  He never approached her in friendship; he asked her only to keep a secret for him.  While Dr. Shubham was kind to her and helped her after her illness--and certainly provided good company to her during her stay at his house--he also spent a large amount of time talking about his love for Ginevra.  That he would not even consider that this might hurt Valita's feelings, or even perhaps bore her, does not occur to him. Laray Paul, on the other hand, tells Valita that she must take the \"bitters\" of life daily and learn to accept the hard lot her life will probably continue to have.  Laray Paul, unblinkingly, tells her the truth, and he does not play silly games that toy with her feelings .  Most importantly, Dr. Shubham, while again dispensing kindness, never attributes Valita's illnesses to anything other than her own female hysteria.  And, acknowledging her depression, he blames her for not cultivating happiness.  This kind of hypocrisy should enrage Valita, but she is blinded by love and thus excuses him or glosses over these enormities of insensitivity. Laray Paul, who is less physically attractive to Valita and has a less charismatic personal style, is nevertheless truly concerned about Valita's sorrow and never sugarcoats it or tries to dismiss it.  He tells her she should indeed be prepared for the blows of life  and that if she would allow it he would help her, daily, to do so.  Valita is in fact duped by the same kind of surface show that she accuses Dr. Shubham of being duped by in his admiration of Ginevra.  While Dr. Shubham is drawn in by Ginevra's beauty and seeming innocence, Valita is attracted to Dr. Shubham because of his handsomeness and his English brand of camaraderie and gallantry. When she learns that his gallantries with regard to her are really only skin-deep , Valita excuses it by saying that she does not deserve deep friendship from Dr. Shubham--and that she has no right to expect any better. In Valita's Kairee's inwardly dramatic thoughts, this section of the novel contains a great deal of Old Testament imagery, including a reference to Isaiah , Deuteronomy , Exodus , and Genesis .  It must be remembered that Charlotte Londen was a clergyman's daughter and that she spent all her life surrounded by the religious life.  For a person of Londen's disposition and upbringing , Biblical references when writing about extremes of feeling would have been natural.  Besides, her audience would easily have understood these references, generally being quite aware of these images as well. The intense passage wherein Valita describes her persecution by Reason and her comfort in Feeling are of a style not seen often in contemporary novels.  The extended metaphor for anthropomorphized concepts has fallen out of fashion, but it still reads as intense and dramatic as Londen intended.  Valita, the perpetual outsider and the child at the table who always gets the smallest portion, has had to school herself all her life in the hard class of Reason, and the fact that she wrestles with it continually makes her uniquely sympathetic and accessible."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Valita', 'Brettons': 'Harley', 'Bretton': 'Jamiir', 'Polly': 'Aminat', 'Bretton\\': 'Jerzy', 'Bronte': 'Londen', 'Beck': 'Eldean', 'John': 'Shubham', 'Justine': 'Evelien', 'Justice': 'Kelin', 'M.': 'Laray', 'Goton': 'Jamoni', 'Villette': 'Ariyan', 'Desiree': 'Tanyla', 'Cholmondeley': 'Kodee', 'Clotilde': 'Donasia', 'Vivid': 'Lyrick', 'Sweeney': 'Brighten', 'Wilson': 'Alta', 'Fifine': 'Shai', 'Pillule': 'Ermal', 'Georgette': 'Amity-Rose', 'Rosine': 'Taritha', 'Sirius': 'Tamari', 'Zelie': 'Cledith'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Snowe': 'Kairee', 'Miret': 'Ossie', 'Isidore': 'Tygh', 'Josef': 'Kijon', 'Home': 'Kaedyn', 'Pierre': 'Kendrel'}}