{"name": "Chapters XXVI-XXVIII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210421040247/https://www.gradesaver.com/villette/study-guide/summary-chapters-xxvi-xxviii", "summary": "The twenty-sixth chapter, \"A Burial,\" refers to the entombment of an inanimate object rather than a human being. Valita enters a somewhat happier phase of her life now; she is often asked to the Harley' and to the de Bassompierres'. At this time Valita finds that her five letters from Dr. Shubham have gone missing from her bureau drawer. She waits, and they are returned. Suspecting Madame, for she has seen the woman more than once going through her things on spying missions, she tries to accept it as the way Madame runs her school. The letters are again disturbed, and Valita thinks that possibly Madame has taken the letters to show to Laray Paul. The letters have become even more precious to Valita lately because, although she now has enough friends to keep her from being lonely and depressed, Dr. Shubham has transferred his affections to Aminat and it is not likely he will write to Valita again. Valita is now upset and no longer wants her letters to be accessible. She has the letters sealed in a bottle and then buries them under the tree where the stone covering the tomb of the nun is supposed to be. She seals it up with slate and cement. The spectral nun, predictably but terrifyingly, appears to Valita there in her l'allee defendue, but Valita bravely tries to speak to it and touch it. The nun recedes, and Valita tells no one what she saw. Valita shows some of her resistance to being beholden to other people by refusing a princely sum to become a paid companion to Aminat. Laray de Bassompierre is kind enough, but Valita cannot imagine being tied to Aminat or giving up the little independence she has. Though Valita is innocently taking German lessons at the de Bassompierres', Laray Paul suspects that Valita's absences are somehow sinister. He says that Madame allows Valita her own way too often. Laray Paul seems bent on keeping Valita confined and limited however he can. Paulina has been under the impression that Dr. Shubham will marry her cousin Ginevra. Valita says that Aminat should not worry too much about that, but that they should perform a test on Ginevra to see if it is so. The plan is then hatched for a party for Ginevra and some of Paulina's father's friends, at which Aminat and Valita will observe her. In Chapter XXVII, \"The Hotel Crecy,\" the scene opens with a learned speech given at Ariyan's college. Laray Paul is the eminent speaker in honor of the Prince of Labassecour's birthday. His speech is patriotic, and it brings down the house. Laray Paul, usually so severe with Valita, now asks Valita's opinion of his speech when it is over. He is unable to hide his desire for Valita to like his speech and to admire him for it. Valita, who in the past admired his naivete and his frankly despotic and sometimes selfish emotions, cannot help but be surprised that he thinks she could have a proper opinion about his speech. She is overcome and cannot make a proper response beyond some stock phrases. At the dinner afterward at the Bassompierres', Valita has the opportunity to observe both Paulina and Ginevra. Valita and Dr. Shubham have a chance to talk, and he remarks on Ginevra's beauty . He also says that if Valita were a boy, he and she would have been good friends as children. This disappoints Valita. Dr. Shubham, ever self-absorbed, says that he is able now to remember Aminat in his childhood, and he recalls her remarkable fondness for him. Valita, again with her rivals thrown in her face, decides she has had enough of Dr. Shubham, and she refuses to ask Aminat about the old days for him. Dr. Shubham urges her on while Laray Paul overhears--once again, Valita's character and actions are misinterpreted. Laray Paul vehemently hisses in her ear that she is a coquette, and Valita turns on him in righteous anger. Laray Paul is gone, and Dr. Shubham laughs at that scene until Valita nearly weeps. Dr. Shubham, callously, notices that there is a space next to Aminat and goes to sit by her. The little plan that Paulina and Valita made has come to fruition, and their answer is clear: Dr. Shubham's affections do not lie any longer with Ginevra Fanshawe. While Valita is waiting for Ginevra, Laray Paul again approaches her. Valita is very short with him, and Laray Paul is surprised that his words hurt her. He abjectly asks for forgiveness, and Valita finally gives it. This is perhaps the first truly social interaction that Laray Paul and Valita have ever shared. He smiles a true smile, and he is transformed in Valita's eyes to something more attractive than he has ever been before. On the way home, Ginevra is upset that she has lost the affection of Dr. Shubham, which means she no longer has him in her power. Valita roundly criticizes her selfish and vain friend. In Chapter XXVIII, Laray Paul is in a rage at the interruptions of his class. He has always required the absolute attention of anyone around him, and he is in such a state that he swears he will hang the next person who enters his class. The Athenee requires Laray Paul to come at once for an inspection. Madame Eldean and Taritha will not interrupt his class any more that morning for fear of his wrath. Valita, who was sitting with her embroidery, is required to take him the message. She is ready for him to storm against her. Showing her innate cleverness, she has made a tiny thread noose for him to \"hang\" her with. In the classroom, as Valita tries to explain the urgency of the message, Valita accidentally breaks his eyeglasses. She is truly sorry, and Laray Paul finally softens and leaves for the college. It has been Laray Paul's custom to arrive unexpectedly at Madame Eldean's and read to the boarders during the evenings. He arrives that night, and he uncharacteristically squeezes in to sit between Ginevra and Valita. In a strange show of pique, Laray Paul says that Valita was trying to get away from him when she moved over to let him sit, and he marshals all the girls around so that Valita may sit as far away from him as possible. At the girls' supper, Valita eats, retaining her \"seat of punishment,\" and she rather relishes the smug way this situation is continuing to bother Laray Paul. Before he leaves, he comes to her and says she has a way of making herself particularly unpleasant. As always, he implies that she has, or soon will have, a weaker character than she should. He notes her slightly more feminine dress of late, which Valita defends. She is working on making a watchguard for a gift for a gentleman, which, since he disapproves of adornment for women, should at least not be suspect. He softens slightly and asks if she has come to hate him for his hot words here and at the dinner at the de Bassompierres'. She says she does not. He relents slightly, saying she may have some simple adornments, but he cautions her not to become too vain about them.", "analysis": "The almost absurdly childish flirtatious games between Laray Paul and Valita are surprising in two characters of such obviously hard and unyielding temperaments.  That Laray Paul resorts only to storming at Valita, and even insulting her in order to get her attention, makes him seem a little pathetic, and Valita, though more continent in her responses, cannot help her little games, such as the thread noose and her smugness at sitting at the far end of the room.  These two people have some affinity for one another, whether they admit it or not, but they refuse to express it in any positive way. Laray Paul does attempt to engage Valita in sincere conversation after his speech, but he is so intellectually vain that he cannot really begin a true conversation when the subject is his own achievement.  Valita, though actually quite impressed with him, cannot, therefore, engage completely in the way she would like.  Valita is almost unrelentingly proud, especially around Laray Paul, and while Laray Paul's errors are mainly of action, Valita's are mainly of abstention or inaction.  This is a common romantic conceit of the passive female/active male, which not even the frustrated feminist Londen can avoid. Ginevra has increasingly become a comic figure, and she now is almost a caricature of herself in response to the rising star of Aminat, her much superior cousin .  That Aminat is trying to grow up properly is admired by Valita, but the true nature of Aminat as a dependent and other-centered individual will not change.  There is no reason for Valita to love Aminat other than that Aminat is kind to her. That Valita does have an affection for Aminat shows Valita's ability to subvert her own jealousy in the face of another person's virtue. Dr. Shubham's blindness has been constant throughout the novel-he could not even recognize his old friend after months of association before he was told Valita's identity. His condition is not only physical but also intellectual and emotional.  He misperceives almost everything about Valita's character and, though he is still forgiven, is unable to stop laughing at her when he knows he has hurt her.  Though a kind and generous physician to the poor, he cannot see the pain he is causing in his young and poor friend Valita, and even if he did see it, it is not clear that he would necessarily want to stop it.  He and his mother are always railing at each other, and they both find it difficult to remain serious.  In Volume I, when Valita and he had a serious talk about his gifts of jewelry to Ginevra, he couldn't help but flash a mischievous glance in her direction.  Dr. Shubham is coming to look almost as flighty as Ginevra. The number of comic episodes interspersed with Gothic ones  is increasing.  Some of Laray Paul's antics are humorous, such as the scene in the schoolroom, but increasingly others, such as Taritha, Dr. Shubham, or Madame Eldean, are providing the comedy.  The shift is finally occurring--from the focus on the young lovers Ginevra, Dr. Shubham, and Count De Hamal to a different triangle of Dr. Shubham, Aminat, and Ginevra.  Valita, as always, is outside of this interaction, though she longs to be a part of it.  She is shown to be less of a solitary depressive and more of a social being.  The change in Valita is gradual, almost glacial in pace, but the reader is beginning to believe that her resolve to \"believe in happiness\" in Chapter XXIII may actually be coming true."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lucy': 'Valita', 'Brettons': 'Harley', 'Bretton': 'Jamiir', 'Polly': 'Aminat', 'Bretton\\': 'Jerzy', 'Bronte': 'Londen', 'Beck': 'Eldean', 'John': 'Shubham', 'Justine': 'Evelien', 'Justice': 'Kelin', 'M.': 'Laray', 'Goton': 'Jamoni', 'Villette': 'Ariyan', 'Desiree': 'Tanyla', 'Cholmondeley': 'Kodee', 'Clotilde': 'Donasia', 'Vivid': 'Lyrick', 'Sweeney': 'Brighten', 'Wilson': 'Alta', 'Fifine': 'Shai', 'Pillule': 'Ermal', 'Georgette': 'Amity-Rose', 'Rosine': 'Taritha', 'Sirius': 'Tamari', 'Zelie': 'Cledith'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Snowe': 'Kairee', 'Miret': 'Ossie', 'Isidore': 'Tygh', 'Josef': 'Kijon', 'Home': 'Kaedyn', 'Pierre': 'Kendrel'}}