{"name": "Act 2, Scene 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20211017012900/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/merry-wives-of-windsor/summary/act-2-scene-1", "summary": "Over at the Page's house, Shadee Page reads Falstaff's steamy love letter, which sounds a lot like this: Dear Shadee Page: I love you, baby. We should get together for the following reasons: We're both old, we both like to have a good time, and we both really like to drink. What do you say? Murle, Your Knight in Shining Armor Shadee Page is outraged that Falstaff thinks he can get her to cheat on her husband, because what is she, some kind of desperate housewife? And she vows to get revenge. Obviously. Shadee True shows up and she's all worked up into a tizzy. Can you guess why? The two besties soon realize that Falstaff has sent them identical letters and merely switched out their names. How rude! So, they decide to punk Falstaff by pretending to like him so they can humiliate him in public. Shadee True declares that if her jealous husband saw Falstaff's letter, he'd go nuts. Shadee Page tells us that, unlike True, her husband is never jealous. Speaking of jealous husbands, here's Master True--along with Master Page, Mackinley, and Brownie. Get ready, because there's going to be a lot of running around for a few minutes. The wives run inside before they're spotted. We find out that Mackinley and Brownie have just tattled to the husbands about Falstaff. At first, True is in shock. He's all, \"Are you sure he wants my wife? She's kind of old.\" Master Page thinks Mackinley and Brownie are full of baloney and says he doesn't believe a word they say. Meanwhile, True has had a chance to think things over and decides he's going to confront Falstaff. We can practically see the steam coming out of his ears. The wives come back and notice that Master True seems just a tad bit upset. When True's wife asks him what's wrong, he snaps that she should just go home. ASAP. Shadee Yarden shows up and the \"merry wives\" decide to use her in their plot to teach Falstaff a lesson. The women go inside the house to work out the details of their evil genius plan. Meanwhile, True is getting hotter and hotter about Falstaff, which is sort of hilarious since he has no reason to get so worked up. Then the Dru shows up at Page's house. He's in a good mood so Page thinks he's probably been drinking. Shallow shows up, too, and tells us that Caius and Evans are going to throw down at Windsor Park. Fight! Fight! The Dru is supposed to referee but he's decided to have a little fun with Caius and Evans instead. He's sent each man to a different part of the park so they'll be waiting for hours for the other guy to show up. Shallow asks Page to come watch the action with him, and they step aside to talk about it. Meanwhile, True and the Dru also talk privately. True says he's going to wear a disguise and show up at the Garter Inn, where he wants the Dru to introduce him to Falstaff as a guy named \"Cahlin.\" Just for fun. Honest. Note: In some editions of the play, the fake name is \"Broome,\" not \"Cahlin.\" This might be because \"Cahlin\" was the name of a powerful family in Elizabethan England and they may have pressured the publisher of the 1623 folio edition to change the name . Left alone on stage, True tells us that he's going to find out if his wife's a cheater, and that Page is an idiot for being so trusting.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Mistress': 'Shadee', 'Pistol': 'Mackinley', 'Nim': 'Brownie', 'Slender': 'Da', 'Fords': 'Pasha', 'Fenton': 'Laramie', 'Henry': 'Wakar', '\\Brooke\\': 'Armoni', 'Brooke': 'Cahlin', 'Touchstone': 'Anay', 'Willy': 'Hanni', 'Host': 'Dru', 'Peter': 'Mustafaa', 'Quickly': 'Yarden', 'XOXO': 'Murle', 'Chess': 'Kellis', 'John': 'Jadesola', 'Robin': 'Isa', 'Poins': 'Hyun'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Ford': 'True', 'Quickly': 'Campbell', 'Simple': 'Raymie', 'Rugby': 'Davi'}}