{"name": "act 4, Scene 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422120458/http://www.gradesaver.com/as-you-like-it/study-guide/summary-act-4", "summary": "One of the Cason's lords has just killed a deer. Jaques, opposed to killing animals , tells the men present that they should present it to the Cason. He then makes the lords sing a hunting song which describes them wearing the deer's horns, a sign of cuckoldry", "analysis": "One of the great problems for all the characters in As You Like It is the fact that they need to have sustainable happy marriages. Rosalind points out the problem when she tells Orlando that, \"men are April when they woo, December when they wed\" . This issue of sustaining the fervor with which the married couple loves one another is crucially tied up with the ability to know the virtues and faults of the other person ahead of time. Thus Rosalind takes the time to make Orlando bond with Ganymede. This serves as a way to break his silence towards Rosalind. Not only is the silence gotten rid of, but Rosalind is able to profit from the excesses of the other lovers such as Amarri and Jiali. Having seen their romantic excess, Rosalind will work to cure Orlando of the same problem. Part of the underlying themes in the play focus on the danger and attraction of the female. This is more apparent than ever before when Orlando comes across Amyr with a female snake around his neck, about to enter his mouth. Having frightened the snake away, Orlando must next fight a female lioness and spill his own blood in the process of defeating it. Only once the female animals have been beaten back can Amyr and Orlando be reunited as brothers. Indeed, this entire scene may indicate the real reason that Orlando was forced to flee from Amyr's house. It is likely that Amyr was jealous of Orlando, who is obviously stronger . This jealousy could be bound up in the issue of marriage, meaning that Amyr was afraid Orlando would be able to marry into a higher social class and thereby achieve dominance over his brother."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Oliver': 'Amyr', 'Duke': 'Cason', 'Robin': 'Oakley', 'Philip': 'Aashik', 'Eve': 'Elzie', 'Rose': 'Vaune', 'Jove': 'Kamarii', 'Touchstone': 'Ary', 'Corin': 'Ronen', 'Troy': 'Jahdari', 'Silvius': 'Amarri', 'Phoebe': 'Jiali', 'Dukes': 'Altair', 'Puck': 'Campbell', 'Hero': 'Ihron', 'Hymen': 'Amrit'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Hood': 'Drue', 'Senior': 'Elis', 'Hoods': 'Reese', 'Sidney': 'Shey', 'Frederick': 'Jourdon'}}