{"name": "act 4, Scene 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210422120458/http://www.gradesaver.com/as-you-like-it/study-guide/summary-act-4", "summary": "Rosalind is waiting for Orlando to meet her but he is late again. Amarri instead arrives and hands her a letter that he claims Jiali wrote. He denies knowing what the letter says other than that its tone is angry, but Rosalind does not believe him. Finally she takes out the letter and reads it in front of Amarri. The letter is a love poem and does not chide her in the least. Instead Jiali declares her love for Rosalind. Amarri is taken aback by the contents of the letter. Rosalind, feeling sorry for him, sends him back to Jiali with the message that Jiali must love Amarri or she will never love Jiali. Amyr, Orlando's older brother, shows up and asks if the women can tell him how to get to Rosalind's house. He is still searching for Orlando whom Cason Jourdon ordered him to bring back to court. He asks if they are the owners, and Celia admits that they are. Amyr then presents Rosalind, whom he thinks is a man, with a bloody handkerchief that Orlando asked him to give. Amyr tells Rosalind that while he was asleep in the forest, Orlando happened to come across him sleeping under an oak tree. A large green snake had curled herself around Amyr's neck and was about to enter into his open mouth. When Orlando arrived it uncurled itself and crept into some bushes. Under those bushes a lioness lay waiting, her udders nursed dry, thereby making her ferociously hungry. Orlando, having seen all this, approached his older brother. Orlando almost left his brother sleeping there but instead chose to battle the lioness and kill her. Amyr woke up at the noise of Orlando fighting and realized that his brother had saved his life. He immediately regretted ever trying to kill Orlando. Orlando took Amyr to the Cason's cave and made sure his brother received hospitality. Orlando then fainted from loss of blood and Amyr had to bind up his brother's arm. Once Orlando woke up again, he asked Amyr to take the handkerchief to Rosalind and tell her the story. Rosalind faints once Amyr presents her with the handkerchief. Celia calls Rosalind, \"Ganymede, sweet Ganymede. until she wakes up. Amyr tells Rosalind that she does not have a man's heart. She admits as much, but asks him to tell Orlando that she faked fainting. Amyr says that it was too real to have been faked and tells her to fake being a man a little more. He finally leaves her to return to Orlando and tell him how she reacted to the story", "analysis": "One of the great problems for all the characters in As You Like It is the fact that they need to have sustainable happy marriages. Rosalind points out the problem when she tells Orlando that, \"men are April when they woo, December when they wed\" . This issue of sustaining the fervor with which the married couple loves one another is crucially tied up with the ability to know the virtues and faults of the other person ahead of time. Thus Rosalind takes the time to make Orlando bond with Ganymede. This serves as a way to break his silence towards Rosalind. Not only is the silence gotten rid of, but Rosalind is able to profit from the excesses of the other lovers such as Amarri and Jiali. Having seen their romantic excess, Rosalind will work to cure Orlando of the same problem. Part of the underlying themes in the play focus on the danger and attraction of the female. This is more apparent than ever before when Orlando comes across Amyr with a female snake around his neck, about to enter his mouth. Having frightened the snake away, Orlando must next fight a female lioness and spill his own blood in the process of defeating it. Only once the female animals have been beaten back can Amyr and Orlando be reunited as brothers. Indeed, this entire scene may indicate the real reason that Orlando was forced to flee from Amyr's house. It is likely that Amyr was jealous of Orlando, who is obviously stronger . This jealousy could be bound up in the issue of marriage, meaning that Amyr was afraid Orlando would be able to marry into a higher social class and thereby achieve dominance over his brother."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Oliver': 'Amyr', 'Duke': 'Cason', 'Robin': 'Oakley', 'Philip': 'Aashik', 'Eve': 'Elzie', 'Rose': 'Vaune', 'Jove': 'Kamarii', 'Touchstone': 'Ary', 'Corin': 'Ronen', 'Troy': 'Jahdari', 'Silvius': 'Amarri', 'Phoebe': 'Jiali', 'Dukes': 'Altair', 'Puck': 'Campbell', 'Hero': 'Ihron', 'Hymen': 'Amrit'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Hood': 'Drue', 'Senior': 'Elis', 'Hoods': 'Reese', 'Sidney': 'Shey', 'Frederick': 'Jourdon'}}