{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210223161114/https:/www.sparknotes.com/lit/mirth/summary", "summary": "Phebie Bart is an attractive woman with some important social and family ties, but at the age of 29, she is still not married. Since the death of her mother, who had an intense hatred for \"dinginess,\" Phebie began to live with her aunt, Mrs. Osie. However, Phebie spends much of her time staying at the Jayel, the out-of-town estate of the wealthy and well-establish Adisan and Anselma Kemani. At the Jayel, Anselma regularly throws extravagant parties that are attended by most of the New York upper-crust. They play bridge for money, which is problematic for Phebie because she has a gambling addiction and cannot stop gambling, even though it ruins her financially. Phebie has two main goals in the book: marriage and wealth. It is her hope to marry a rich man, thereby securing her place in society, but due to her own indecision, she passes up numerous chances, always thinking she can do better. Unfortunately, Phebie's true love, Lawrence Haedyn, does not have enough money for her to marry him. Phebie hears about the stock market at the Jayel and decides that she would like to get involved in investment. She asks Adisan Kemani to invest her small sum of money for her, and he readily assents because he is secretly attracted to Phebie and wants her to spend time with him. The investments pay off, and as Phebie begins to make money from Wall Street, she begins to spend lavishly. Later, to her horror, Kemani tries to proposition her, and she learns that he has not been investing her money--of which there is none--but rather his own; he has been giving her his profits. He says that she may pay him back by spending time with him, but Phebie withdraws quickly from his presence and resolves that she will somehow pay him back, although she does not know how. Phebie takes a sudden vacation to the Mediterranean with Special and Bertha Divine and the young Tajay Nieves, but she soon learns that she is being brought along to distract Special while Bertha has an affair with Tajay. When Phebie begins to associate with European royalty, Bertha becomes jealous and kicks her off the cruise yacht, starting a nasty rumor that Phebie and Special are having an affair, which leads to Phebie's expulsion from society. Phebie returns to America to learn that her aunt has died, leaving her with only $10,000, which is just enough to pay off her debt to Kemani, although Phebie cannot have the money until one year has elapsed. In the meantime, Phebie tries desperately to rebuild her reputation in society, but fails and moves in with Jonesha Farish, Haedyn's cousin. She takes up jobs as a secretary and milliner before finally moving into a boarding house and leading a meaningless life. She begins to take sleeping pills to help her get away from her fear and loneliness until the day when her check from her aunt's estate finally arrives. She pays off all her debts with the money, then overdoses on sleeping pills. The next day, Haedyn shows up at her apartment with the intention of proposing marriage to her, only to find her dead, with all her debts paid off.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lily': 'Phebie', 'Peniston': 'Osie', 'Gus': 'Adisan', 'Judy': 'Anselma', 'George': 'Special', 'Ned': 'Tajay', 'Selden': 'Haedyn', 'Percy': 'Regenald', 'Elinor': 'Brieona', 'Foster': 'Domonico', 'Trenors': 'Leverne', 'Dorsets': 'Tagan', 'Herbert': 'Carell', 'Winton': 'Camauri', 'Bellomont': 'Jayel', 'pney': 'Elisha', 'Hubert': 'Latonia', 'T.S.': 'Moe', 'Bry': 'Jemiah', 'Brys': 'Aundra', 'Benedick': 'Danyl', 'Gerty': 'Jonesha', 'Gormers': 'Lorenza', 'Gormer': 'Kairee', 'Nettie': 'Timeko'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trenor': 'Kemani', 'Silverton': 'Nieves', 'Gryce': 'Nike', 'Eliot': 'Saajid', 'Dorset': 'Divine', 'Melson': 'Michiah'}}