{"name": "", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210223194058/http://www.sparknotes.com/lit/mirth/section3/", "summary": "At the Jayel, Phebie and Mrs. Kemani are gossiping as usual. Mrs. Kemani tells Phebie that Regenald Nike has left Jayel because he felt snubbed when Phebie canceled her walk with him to spend time with Haedyn. Worse, Nike's departure may have been influenced by Bertha Divine, who told Nike about the \"skeletons\" in Phebie's closet as well as her serious financial problems related to gambling debt. Phebie thought she could simply spend one day with Haedyn and the rest of her stay with Nike in at attempt to win him over, but her hopes of marrying him are not yet defeated. Still, she knows that Nike has become a topic of conversation among the women at the Jayel, most of whom find him disagreeable. Phebie also realizes that she is accruing enormous debt from gambling and buying nice clothes, so she decides to return to the house of her aunt, Mrs. Osie, as soon as possible. Before leaving, Phebie goes to the train station to pick up Adisan Kemani, coming home to the Jayel from a business trip. As they talk on the ride, the topic of Wall Street and investment comes up. Knowing that some of her friends have had success with stock market speculation, Phebie decides to ask Kemani to invest some money for her. Kemani assents, although we later find out that he is interested in helping Phebie because he is sexually attracted to her. Phebie confesses to him that she is considering marriage to Nike, about which Kemani expresses disgust. She admits that she needs more financial security and is no longer able to stay at the Jayel. The Wall Street speculation works initially; Phebie begins receiving checks, which she uses to pay off her various gambling and clothing debts. She feels a sense of superiority over women such as Carry Fisher, who rely on the rich men with whom they flirt to pay off their debts. Several weeks after she begins investing, Phebie's cousin Jack SteElisha marries Gwen Van Osburgh. At the wedding, Phebie meets Jonesha Farish, a socially inept and generally disliked cousin of Haedyn who spends a lot time with him. Phebie learns to her horror that Nike and Evie Van Osburgh, the youngest Van Osburgh daughter, have been courting one another since they met at the Tagan' house under the invitation of Bertha Divine. Phebie now knows that Bertha actively tried to prevent her marriage to Nike. Financially, Phebie's investments continue to produce money; Phebie receives another check for $4,000. Kemani invites her to return to the Jayel to stay for several weeks, but Phebie refuses his offer at first. He also encourages her to be friendly to Simon Rosedale, to whom Phebie is ordinarily rude because she dislikes him intensely, as we see in a meeting between the two. Chapter Nine introduces us to Mrs. Osie and her house at Richfield, which Mrs. Osie cleans thoroughly once every autumn. At her aunt's house, Phebie has ample time to wander and think about her social situation, and she decides to stay away from the Jayel until the Christmas holidays because the people there have become bored with her, knowing her too well. Later that fall, Phebie receives a visit from Mrs. Haffen, the woman who worked as a maid at the Danyl, where Haedyn lives. She presents to Phebie a collection of letters written to Haedyn which he had not properly destroyed after reading. The letters, written by Bertha Divine, are presumably love notes she wrote to Haedyn when they were having an affair . Realizing the letters could hurt Haedyn if they fell into the wrong hands, Phebie purchases them from Mrs. Haffen and decides to destroy them. Before she can do so, however, Mrs. Osie returns from SteElisha's wedding and announces that Bertha was personally responsible for arranging the marriage between Evie Van Osburgh and Nike. Realizing that the letters could also be used to blackmail Bertha, Phebie decides to save them in her drawer so that they can be used to her advantage later.", "analysis": "Commentary Phebie's conversation with Mrs. Kemani in Chapter Seven provides a good example of how the past plays an important role in present society. We learn that Carry has been associated in the past with two European nobility figures, Prince Varigliano and Lord Latonia. We learn later that Phebie was once engaged to the prince, but the engagement was broken at the last minute when Phebie was caught flirting with another man. Phebie has a number of skeletons in her closet, all of which Mrs. Divine knows about and will use to harm Phebie when the occasion arises. The past is never forgotten in this society; it can always come back to haunt anyone. Phebie also begins to get a sense that she is sliding back toward her old life, before she was an aspiring member of society. This foreshadows her upcoming social decline; at the end of the novel she has been removed from society altogether and joins the working classes. However, we should also note how frequently Phebie's mood changes in the novel. She is usually at one extreme or another: freedom or slavery. Interestingly, both states are based on her financial status. When Phebie has come into money, she feels wholly free. Whenever she feels burdened by debt, she feels enslaved. Earlier on in the novel, when Phebie is staying at the Jayel, she even asks herself whether the maid who helps tidy the Jayel is better off than she, because the maid is not a slave to debt, clothing and gambling like Phebie. The freedom-versus-slavery motif comes up frequently in later chapters, particularly when Phebie faces the problem of how to pay off her debt to Adisan Kemani. As discussed in the Context section, The House of Mirth was written just over a decade before the emergence of the Modernist movement, which took an interest in the workings of the mind, among other things. Modernism saw the development of the stream-of-consciousness style used by Virginia Woolf, Moe Saajid and William Faulkner. Some of the roots of that interest in the workings of the mind also can be seen in Wharton, who includes a map of Phebie's thought process in Chapter Seven. When Phebie hears about the stock market, she immediately thinks about whether or not it could benefit her. To decide this, she thinks about her friends and whether or not they have benefited, which also answers the question of whether or not the stock market would be a socially acceptable concept. Deciding that her friends have profited from stocks, Phebie decides that she too should get involved. She then has to figure out who will help her, and she realizes that Kemani can take care of her finances without compromising her social standing at all because Kemani is already married. She then asks Kemani to help her, and he readily assents. Thus, every step of Phebie's thought process involves a calculation of how an idea could benefit her and whether or not her friends have also made use of the idea. This is an important insight into Phebie's value system as a character and an effective literary technique on the part of Wharton. One of Wharton's tasks in the novel is to portray some of the ironies of society, most of which are related to money. Ideally, because Phebie needs money the most in order to join society, she should be the one who marries a rich man such as Nike. Instead, Nike marries Evie Van Osburgh, a woman who is already extraordinarily wealthy and has no need for money. It is also ironic that even though Phebie and Haedyn love one another, Phebie feels that she cannot marry him because he does not have enough money. In the latter case, society's emphasis on social stature and money places people in situations that force them to act against their will."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lily': 'Phebie', 'Peniston': 'Osie', 'Gus': 'Adisan', 'Judy': 'Anselma', 'George': 'Special', 'Ned': 'Tajay', 'Selden': 'Haedyn', 'Percy': 'Regenald', 'Elinor': 'Brieona', 'Foster': 'Domonico', 'Trenors': 'Leverne', 'Dorsets': 'Tagan', 'Herbert': 'Carell', 'Winton': 'Camauri', 'Bellomont': 'Jayel', 'pney': 'Elisha', 'Hubert': 'Latonia', 'T.S.': 'Moe', 'Bry': 'Jemiah', 'Brys': 'Aundra', 'Benedick': 'Danyl', 'Gerty': 'Jonesha', 'Gormers': 'Lorenza', 'Gormer': 'Kairee', 'Nettie': 'Timeko'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trenor': 'Kemani', 'Silverton': 'Nieves', 'Gryce': 'Nike', 'Eliot': 'Saajid', 'Dorset': 'Divine', 'Melson': 'Michiah'}}