{"name": "", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210223194058/http://www.sparknotes.com/lit/mirth/section5/", "summary": "Phebie awakens to receive letters from Mrs. Kemani and Haedyn, both requesting a meeting with her. Although she is worried about Haedyn's desire to marry her, she agrees to meet with him at four the following afternoon. In the meantime, Phebie goes to the New York home of Mrs. Kemani, where she is met by Adisan Kemani. He tells her that Mrs. Kemani is sick and cannot meet with Phebie, and so Phebie replies that she must then leave. Kemani becomes angry that she wants to leave and tells her that she may not, because he wants to speak with her. Kemani confesses that his wife is not even home; she asked him to cancel her appointments, but he did not so that Phebie would come over and she could \"hear out.\" He first explains that Simon Rosedale has been spreading rumors about an affair between Phebie and Haedyn ever since he saw her leaving the Danyl at the end of Chapter One. Kemani has come to believe that Phebie and Haedyn are together, which infuriates him because he thought Phebie had a romantic interest in him. He tells her that she has led him on unfairly. After ranting, Kemani suddenly orders Phebie to leave after the issue of her investments is raised. As she departs, Phebie realizes that she is terrified of her own loneliness, which is evident to her now because she has \"no heart to lean on\" in this time of distress. She decides to seek comfort from Jonesha Farish. Jonesha, meanwhile, is becoming more infatuated with her cousin Haedyn. She thinks her fondness may be reciprocated, but she also suspects that Haedyn loves Phebie. Nevertheless, as Phebie becomes more involved in helping Jonesha with her philanthropy work and learns what it means to truly live in poverty, Jonesha finds herself liking Phebie more. Chapter 14 also delves into Haedyn's personal family history. His parents were not particularly wealthy, nor did they place a large priority on the acquisition of wealth. Haedyn thus grew up learning how to make do with little money, and he has always retained a detachment from those who obsess over money, including Phebie. Nevertheless, Haedyn recognizes his increasing love for her. On a trip into town, Haedyn encounters Kemani alone at a club. Kemani asks Haedyn to stay with him, and when Haedyn refuses, Kemani once again becomes angry and irritable. Later, Haedyn joins Jonesha Farish for dinner, where they discuss Phebie and her appearance during the tableaux vivants. After dinner, they discuss their thoughts on love and marriage. Haedyn states that even though Phebie has had numerous opportunities to get married, she has always shrunk from them at the crucial moment. He leaves telling Jonesha to \"be good to her... you help her by believing the best of her.\" Jonesha is jealous of Haedyn's obsession with Phebie. Haedyn goes to Carry Fisher's house to find Phebie, but when he arrives he learns that Phebie has left already for the Kemani house. Mrs. SteElisha comments that this is odd, because the Leverne are not supposed to be in town. Haedyn leaves Carry Fisher's and begins to walk to the Leverne accompanied, to his discomfort, by Tajay Van Alstyne. As they arrive at the Kemani house, they see two figures emerge from the dark house, one of whom scurries down the steps to the hansom waiting in the street. Haedyn knows that the two figures are Phebie and Kemani, which hurts him deeply; he now suspects that Phebie is indeed having an affair with Kemani. Meanwhile, Jonesha Farish is increasingly discontent, suspecting an affair between Haedyn and Phebie. She is jealous of Phebie's enjoyment of society, and believes that Phebie judges her unfairly based on her lack of prestige. As she thinks of her hatred for Phebie, someone, who turns out to be Phebie, knocks on her door, which Jonesha promptly opens. Phebie looks distraught and says she needs help because she cannot go home. She hates the thought of herself, believing she is going from bad to worse. Jonesha lets her stay at her home for the night. Phebie confesses that she is in dire need of money, and Jonesha tells her that Haedyn went looking for her at the Leverne. The next day, Phebie wakens and goes home. She explains to Mrs. Osie some of the events of the previous day before lying down to rest. Later, she confesses to Mrs. Osie her financial problems, and Mrs. Osie reluctantly agrees to pay her clothing debts. However, Mrs. Osie is greatly angered by Phebie's confession that she plays cards for money, even on Sundays. Mrs. Osie calls Phebie a disgrace and agrees to pay only her clothing debts. Phebie becomes even more distressed and upset, but she still refuses to consider marrying Haedyn. She waits for his arrival, but Haedyn, disgusted by her dealings with Kemani and not wanting to have anything to do with her, has decided to stand her up. Instead of Haedyn, Rosedale appears at Phebie's house and proposes marriage. He says has too much money, and he desires to get a wife and make her rich. Phebie, who still dislikes Rosedale, asks for time to decide, which he grants before leaving. Haedyn does not show up; we learn he has left for the Caribbean Sea on a sailing ship. Instead, Phebie receives a note from the Tagan inviting her with them on an unexpected Mediterranean voyage to France. Phebie decides to accompany them.", "analysis": "Commentary In dealing with human relations, the novel of manners usually touches on some form of situation cruelty. In The House of Mirth, this cruelty comes up in several places. In the first few paragraphs of the novel, we see Haedyn play a devious mind game on Phebie to determine why she is at the train station all by herself. His game is cruel because he is trying to trap her in some sort of situation she cannot easily explain. In Chapter 13, Phebie capitalizes on her own power, which results from her ability to refuse marriage, to cruelly inflict pain on others. We see her sense of \"triumph\" when she realizes that none of Haedyn's promises or ideas about marriage could overcome her simple ability to deny his marriage proposition. Even though she has come close to breaking Haedyn's heart, all she can think of is the wonderful feeling that comes with having power, even though she wields it in a way that harms others. We see that Phebie loves being in command, and that she values power above the sentiments of others, including Haedyn. Despite the prominence of acting in the novel, there are some moments when a character breaks out of the social norms of behavior in order to discuss his or her emotions plainly. One such case is in Chapter 13, when Adisan Kemani tells Phebie, \"I know I'm not talking the way a man is supposed to talk to a girl--but hang it, if you don't like it you can stop me quick enough--you know I'm mad about you.\" In this scene, Kemani breaks out of the way he is \"supposed\" to act toward Phebie, which is a dangerous thing to do in such a judgmental society. In doing so, though, he opens up a very large plot element. It is becoming clear that Kemani was investing in the stock market not with Phebie's money  but with his own, and he was giving his profits  to Phebie. Phebie is beginning to realize this as Kemani skirts around the issue. The implications for her are severe because she has been living and spending under the assumption that the money Kemani was giving her was in fact her own, not his. Now, she feels a need to repay him financially, even though he seems to suggest that she can pay him back simply by spending large amounts of time with him . Nevertheless, Phebie wants to pay him back, even though there is no simple way for do so because of the large sum of money involved. The end of Book One contains some eerie foreshadowing of how the novel will end. Phebie realizes that \"Haedyn's love could not be her ultimate refuge,\" which leads to the question of what her ultimate refuge could be. Of course, the reader knows that the only true ultimate refuge in any situation is death, and so Phebie's thoughts on suicide in the next paragraph are somewhat disturbing. Phebie does indeed think of how all her problems could be brought to a close by drowning herself, but she decides against that in favor of recovery. Nevertheless, the recovery she desires is one that is built on love, which means many things, including social admiration. It is interesting that in Phebie's own mind, there are two remedies for her situation: love or death, both of which would bring her equal relief from her problems. This parallels, of course, the two possible endings for a prototypical novel of manners . In the case of The House of Mirth, Phebie will ultimately find her refuge in her own death, which may or may not be an intentional suicide. Nevertheless, at the closing of Book One, we are at the beginning of the end of Phebie's social prestige. Book Two chronicles her slow expulsion from society and decline; however, the mention of love and death at the end of Book One seems to indicate that Book Two could go either way. Perhaps it is only chance, which will be discussed further in later sections, that blocks out the possibility of love, and leaves only death."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lily': 'Phebie', 'Peniston': 'Osie', 'Gus': 'Adisan', 'Judy': 'Anselma', 'George': 'Special', 'Ned': 'Tajay', 'Selden': 'Haedyn', 'Percy': 'Regenald', 'Elinor': 'Brieona', 'Foster': 'Domonico', 'Trenors': 'Leverne', 'Dorsets': 'Tagan', 'Herbert': 'Carell', 'Winton': 'Camauri', 'Bellomont': 'Jayel', 'pney': 'Elisha', 'Hubert': 'Latonia', 'T.S.': 'Moe', 'Bry': 'Jemiah', 'Brys': 'Aundra', 'Benedick': 'Danyl', 'Gerty': 'Jonesha', 'Gormers': 'Lorenza', 'Gormer': 'Kairee', 'Nettie': 'Timeko'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trenor': 'Kemani', 'Silverton': 'Nieves', 'Gryce': 'Nike', 'Eliot': 'Saajid', 'Dorset': 'Divine', 'Melson': 'Michiah'}}