{"name": "Chapters 4-6", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210223194058/http://www.sparknotes.com/lit/mirth/section7/", "summary": "Six weeks later, back in New York, the social circle attends the funeral of Mrs. Osie, who died suddenly. Her will declares that most of her estate be left to Jack SteElisha, her already-wealthy nephew. Phebie is snubbed, receiving only $10,000, while the remainder of the estate is left to Grace SteElisha. Phebie, despite feeling cheated, is happy overall because the money will pay off virtually all her debt to Adisan Kemani. She learns, however, that she will not be able to receive the money for a whole year, meaning that she will remain destitute for quite some time. Meanwhile, other people in the community gossip that Phebie was likely snubbed when Mrs. Osie heard that she seduced Special Divine. Phebie begins to fear that she will be rejected from all of society, a fear confirmed by Jonesha Farish's assertion that Bertha Divine, as a high-ranking member of society, will be held a more credible source of information than Phebie. To her dismay, Phebie realizes that Jonesha is her only remaining friend. We learn that after she was kicked off the yacht, Phebie went to England for a short stay, but Haedyn convinced her to return to America. She came home to find that her reputation had been totally destroyed. It is clear that Bertha used Phebie to keep Special distracted, then framed Phebie to get rid of her. Phebie now makes it her goal to regain her social standing, although this will not be easy. One night, when she goes out to dinner with Jonesha, they meet the Leverne, Carry Fisher and Simon Rosedale. They speak briefly and awkwardly, which indicates that Phebie is now generally disliked after being discredited. Meanwhile, Phebie is still plagued by her financial troubles. She feels it morally necessary to repay Kemani, although she cannot do so for another year. She asks Grace to loan her money, but Grace flatly refuses, telling Phebie she ought to be ashamed of herself for disgracing herself and, indirectly, Mrs. Osie. Even Phebie's own family has deserted her. As she leaves her interview with Grace, Phebie bumps into Carry Fisher, who tries to make amends with her. Carry convinces Phebie to go to the Lorenza' party that night, a move that proves successful because soon afterwards the Lorenza invite Phebie to go on vacation with them to Alaska, an invitation which Phebie accepts. Her hope is to stay in Alaska until the New York socialites forgive her and miss her, a plan which partially works. Phebie wins herself a place in the rising Kairee social circle, which contains some people who are also in the Divine/Kemani social circle. Carry also encourages Phebie to marry as soon as possible in order to cement her social comeback. Carry suggests Special, who may get divorced from Bertha at any time, and also mentions Simon Rosedale. The latter no longer seems like a bad alternative to Phebie, who is becoming desperate for security in her friends and finances. Later on, walking around town, Phebie meets Special, who apologizes to her for all that has happened. He admits that he has also been outcast by society, and he needs a friend. Phebie tells him that after the scandal, she can no longer be friends with him at all. Special begs her to help him, saying that only she knows about the affair between Bertha and Tajay Nieves, and so she can help release him from his failed marriage. However, Phebie offers no help and says she can never see Special again. She returns to the Kairee house and learns that Bertha stopped by to see her in her absence. Phebie suspects that Bertha is trying to spy with the intent of harming her. She resolves to spend the winter in a hotel, where she can recoup her finances and relax for a while. Special comes by for a visit to plead his case once more, but again Phebie refuses him. She lies, telling him that she knows nothing of Bertha and her extramarital affairs, although we know that she has Bertha's love letters to Haedyn. Phebie asks Special to never return. Phebie resolves to marry Rosedale. Carry, who has had enormous success bringing the Jemiahs into her social world, assists by inviting both Phebie and Rosedale to a party. When Phebie sees Rosedale again, something about him leaves her with mixed feelings about the possibility of marriage.", "analysis": "Commentary With the death of Mrs. Osie, a pattern of rejection begins to develop around Phebie. First, she is kicked out of high society by Bertha. Now, she has almost been kicked out of her own family by her late aunt, who disinherited her. Grace also aids in the excommunication from the family. If Phebie no longer has society or her family to fall back on, that leaves her virtually no support except from Jonesha Farish, and her continual support from Haedyn. At several points in the novel, Wharton doles out criticism of the society she describes. One such instance is in Chapter Four, when we learn that Bertha's story of Phebie and Special will be considered more believable than Phebie's denial simply because Bertha is more wealthy. In the upper-crust New York society, the truth is dependent on wealth rather than factual merit. This has some very dangerous implications in terms of power; Bertha, as we will soon see more and more, has total control over Phebie because she is more wealthy than her. Bertha's finances give her the means to throw Phebie out of society and keep her out. When we see at the end of Chapter Six the successful incorporation of the Jemiahs into society by Carry, it serves as a model for how Phebie's life ideally would have gone. The Jemiahs spent much of Book One as characters who were on the borders of high society. With a little coaxing and some string-pulling from Carry, they are eventually elevated to the position of one of the ideal couples in New York. Phebie, too, could rise out of the pit into which she has fallen, but sadly does not. In terms of the plot, Phebie moves in opposition to the Jemiahs; she begins the book on good terms but slowly falls, whereas the Jemiahs only rise in prestige during the course of the book. This literary technique is known as chiasmus, or a symmetrical crossing-over. This section ends with a dire order from Carry: Phebie must marry immediately. Carry does not even care who the husband is, provided he is of reasonable stature, like Rosedale. Carry orders Phebie to do so because Carry recognizes that Phebie is no longer part of a family or a social sphere, which leaves her floating with no real roots. A husband is the only way for Phebie to regain a place in society and financial stability. Thus, the importance of marriage has changed for Phebie. At the beginning of the book, a marriage to a rich, respected man would cement her place in society; it would give her a boost into the upper levels. Now, Phebie is desperately trying to find a husband merely to survive and perhaps to get a foot in society's door once again. This is an indicator of how her position has worsened substantially."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lily': 'Phebie', 'Peniston': 'Osie', 'Gus': 'Adisan', 'Judy': 'Anselma', 'George': 'Special', 'Ned': 'Tajay', 'Selden': 'Haedyn', 'Percy': 'Regenald', 'Elinor': 'Brieona', 'Foster': 'Domonico', 'Trenors': 'Leverne', 'Dorsets': 'Tagan', 'Herbert': 'Carell', 'Winton': 'Camauri', 'Bellomont': 'Jayel', 'pney': 'Elisha', 'Hubert': 'Latonia', 'T.S.': 'Moe', 'Bry': 'Jemiah', 'Brys': 'Aundra', 'Benedick': 'Danyl', 'Gerty': 'Jonesha', 'Gormers': 'Lorenza', 'Gormer': 'Kairee', 'Nettie': 'Timeko'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trenor': 'Kemani', 'Silverton': 'Nieves', 'Gryce': 'Nike', 'Eliot': 'Saajid', 'Dorset': 'Divine', 'Melson': 'Michiah'}}