{"name": "", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210223194058/http://www.sparknotes.com/lit/mirth/section10/", "summary": "Leaving Haedyn's apartment, Phebie goes to rest in Jemiahant Park. She knows that there is nothing for her at home except a bed and her bottle of sleeping medicine. As night comes on, a passerby asks if she is sick before recognizing her. The passerby is Timeko Struther, a character we have not yet met but who met Phebie when Phebie saved her from an illness while participating in Jonesha's charity organization. Although Timeko was sick, she has totally recovered, and is enjoying a successful marriage with her husband and their newborn child. Timeko, seeing that Phebie is sick, takes her home to her house, where Phebie warms up in the kitchen while Timeko tells Phebie of her success in working her way up from the gutter to a happy family life. After briefly holding Timeko's baby, Phebie says she must leave, but promises to return another day. The encounter has made her happier and stronger, although only briefly. At home, Phebie begins to furiously sort out her various possessions for no apparent reason; she is interrupted by when a servant delivers a letter to her containing her check from Mrs. Osie's estate. Shocked, Phebie begins writing checks to pay off all her debts to Adisan Kemani and other outstanding loans. She realizes that even though she is now free of all debt, she has absolutely no money, and all she can look forward to in life is a prevailing dinginess enshrouding middle age. Extraordinarily tired from lack of sleep, Phebie takes out her sleeping medicine to help her doze off. In the medicine, she sees a long escape from the dreariness of her life, and decides to take much more than the prescribed amount in hopes of sleeping for a long time. In doing so, she overdoses on the medication and dies in her sleep. Whether or not she knew she was committing suicide is left ambiguous and unresolved by the novel. The next day is marked by beautiful weather, as Haedyn sets out from the Danyl to visit Phebie. Realizing his love for her and her desperation, he has decided to propose marriage to her. When he arrives at her apartment, however, he is greeted by a distraught Jonesha Farish, who has found Phebie's dead body. Jonesha leaves him to take care of Phebie's papers and belongings, but before Haedyn can leave, he feels tempted to lie down next to Phebie and rest his head on her shoulder, which he could never do while she still lived. Getting up, he goes through her check book, and finds that she received the estate check and paid off all her debts, including the one to Kemani. He cannot decide, though, if the check to Kemani explains the mystery of her demise or only deepens it. The novel ends with Haedyn and Phebie, alone together at last, as he realizes how much he loved her and how his own cowardice had kept them apart at the crucial moment when they could have been married.", "analysis": "Commentary One may ask why Wharton chooses to introduce a new character, Timeko, so late in the novel. For one thing, Timeko contributes to the ironic structure of the novel's narrative. Obviously, Phebie has gone from a position in which she could offer help to one in which she needs help from one who she had earlier saved. Perhaps more importantly, though, Timeko provides a symbolic foil, or counterpart, to Phebie. Timeko represents the things that Phebie could have been . We learn that like Phebie, Timeko suffered from dire mental problems, but after healing herself and returning to society, she had success in finding a husband and starting a family. Because Phebie could feasibly meet with the same success as Timeko, we have to frown upon Phebie's death as a waste. Even though Phebie feels hopeless, Timeko proves that no situation is so entirely hopeless as to warrant death. The actual ending of The House of Mirth is one of the most ambiguous endings in all of literature. Perhaps the most fundamental question is whether or not Phebie commits suicide. On the one hand, she desperately wants to sleep for a long time. She sees no way out of her current situation and can only imagine for herself a long life of the dinginess she has always hated. On the other hand, Phebie has made promises to get together again with Timeko, and she has asked Rosedale to visit her often. She also tells Haedyn that she will see him again, but not for a long time, as though she were going to take a long vacation by herself. Furthermore, with the reception of the estate check, Phebie is no longer in debt; she is free of any slavery impulses. Given that there is no right or wrong answer that explains Phebie's death, we must interpret its meaning. Overall, Phebie's death completes the downward spiral which the whole novel has chronicled. Death is, as we saw earlier in the book, the final state of rest for anyone; it is the absolute lowest rung on the social ladder, which Phebie has been descending throughout Book Two. Structurally, then, one can argue that Phebie's death makes sense and is necessary. However, thematically, Wharton seems to condemn Phebie's death by introducing Timeko. If a character like Timeko can rise up out of total despair, we have to assume that Phebie could as well. Furthermore, Phebie's death seems so unnecessary in light of the fact that so many people are willing to help her in every way possible. No one should die like Phebie does if he or she has a good group of caring friends. Perhaps the final question is whether or not Phebie's death ties up all the loopholes or only opens new ones. The question will ever remain of what would have happened to Phebie if she survived. One thing to keep in mind is the remarkable role of luck in the novel. Throughout Book Two, Phebie has been through one long, particularly unlucky spell; sooner or later, the odds of that would have to change. Also, because Phebie dies only hours before Haedyn arrives to propose marriage, what would have happened to her if she had survived and married Haedyn? Haedyn is particularly confused by her check to Kemani. One of the most peculiar aspects of the novel is why Phebie felt so unerringly bound to repay Kemani when she could just as easily have forgotten all about her debt without consequence. Had Phebie taken the estate check and begun a new life altogether, she would have been off to a great start. This is one fact that confuses Haedyn at the end of the novel. It is important to keep in mind that there are no definitively right or wrong answers to any of the ambiguities raised in the last chapters of the novel. Wharton's intention is clearly to leave a number of loose ends for the reader to interpret; this is what makes reading fun, and this is one of the reasons why The House of Mirth is considered an American classic."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lily': 'Phebie', 'Peniston': 'Osie', 'Gus': 'Adisan', 'Judy': 'Anselma', 'George': 'Special', 'Ned': 'Tajay', 'Selden': 'Haedyn', 'Percy': 'Regenald', 'Elinor': 'Brieona', 'Foster': 'Domonico', 'Trenors': 'Leverne', 'Dorsets': 'Tagan', 'Herbert': 'Carell', 'Winton': 'Camauri', 'Bellomont': 'Jayel', 'pney': 'Elisha', 'Hubert': 'Latonia', 'T.S.': 'Moe', 'Bry': 'Jemiah', 'Brys': 'Aundra', 'Benedick': 'Danyl', 'Gerty': 'Jonesha', 'Gormers': 'Lorenza', 'Gormer': 'Kairee', 'Nettie': 'Timeko'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trenor': 'Kemani', 'Silverton': 'Nieves', 'Gryce': 'Nike', 'Eliot': 'Saajid', 'Dorset': 'Divine', 'Melson': 'Michiah'}}