{"name": "", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210223194058/http://www.sparknotes.com/lit/mirth/section6/", "summary": "Book Two opens in Europe, where Haedyn is in Monte Carlo with Carry Fisher and some other less prominent people who appeared at the Jayel. Also arriving in Monte Carlo are the Tagan , Tajay Nieves, and Phebie, who have been cruising on a yacht called the Sabrina all over the Mediterranean. Phebie is looking her best, and she has been associating with old European friends, including Lady Skiddaw and the Crown Princess of Macedonia, as well as Lord Latonia. Haedyn, anxious about seeing Phebie after seeing her with Adisan Kemani, learns from Carry that Bertha Divine brought Phebie along on the voyage to keep her husband, Special, distracted while Bertha pursues her affair with the young Tajay Nieves. However, Bertha is becoming jealous of Phebie's success with persons of nobility, which leaves her with torn between wanting to kick Phebie off the yacht and find other ways to hide her affair or letting Phebie stay and putting up with Phebie's success. To make things more complicated, Special is beginning to take a real interest in Phebie. Haedyn decides to get away from that scene and returns to Nice, which will become his home base. However, later on he goes with Tajay to see a show on the bay in Monte Carlo. He decides to leave in order to wander around thinking, but as he walks around the streets he sees Bertha and Tajay walking together. Haedyn goes to the club, where he meets up with Lord Latonia, but he now knows that Phebie is being used as a tool to keep Special Divine occupied while Bertha and Tajay spend time together. The next day, we see Phebie by herself on the Sabrina. She feels a separation from her financial worries back home, which livens her spirits, but she realizes that she is running very low on money. Later on, she meets up with Carry Fisher, who tells Phebie that a rumor is starting to spread that Phebie and Special are having an affair with one another after being seen together at the train station. Although Phebie and Special were waiting for Bertha to show up, Carry says Phebie will \"pay for it.\" We learn later that the rumors were started by Bertha as an excuse to kick Phebie off the Sabrina. As she goes around town, Phebie meets Special, who tells her that Bertha missed all the trains the previous night and left the two of them waiting as a result. Even though he is somewhat dense, Divine has an emotional breakdown, knowing that his wife is having an affair with Nieves. He decides to get Haedyn to help legally end his marriage. Although Phebie decides to forgive Bertha out of friendly sympathy, Bertha later lies and says that she and Tajay were actually at the train station first, and did not wait for Phebie and Special. Bertha tells Phebie that she is angry that Phebie and Special were seen together in public because of the rumors it will undoubtedly spur . Later on, Phebie shares an awkward dinner with the Tagan, which arouses suspicion because Tajay does not appear and Special avoids Phebie. That night, Haedyn goes looking for Phebie to speak with her, and he finds instead Lord Latonia and Mrs. Jemiah, who invite him to attend a dinner with the Duchess. Knowing Phebie will be present, Haedyn decides to go, and when he finds Phebie there he tells her to leave the yacht because he worries that people will gossip too much about Phebie and Special. At the dinner party, numerous dignitaries show up, much to the happiness of Mrs. Jemiah, who is trying to establish herself as a member of the elite society with the help of Carry Fisher. However, after the dinner, when Phebie prepares to go back to the yacht, Bertha suddenly announces to everyone that Phebie will not be returning to the yacht and promptly disappears. Although Phebie tries to cover up her expulsion, most people assume that Bertha has kicked Phebie out because Phebie had an affair with Special. Haedyn walks the devastated Phebie to a cab and takes her to Jack SteElisha's apartment, where Jack will let her stay for the night. Phebie is torn, knowing that she has virtually nowhere to go.", "analysis": "Commentary The first few pages of Book Two remind us that one of the major themes of the novel is Phebie's knack at botching her many opportunities to get married. She is a beautiful woman, which allows her to associate with many figures of royalty, and we find out that when she was 19 she nearly married an Italian prince. She lost her chance, though, when the Prince saw her flirting with someone else. During the course of the novel, Phebie has blown her chances with both Regenald Nike  and Simon Rosedale. Before the novel ends, she will also give up even more opportunities to marry Haedyn. Phebie's indecision and inability to commit herself, as well as her incessant belief that she can \"do better,\" is ultimately what accounts for her failure to marry. Because she is intent on marrying not for love but for society, she would have been a great success if she had simply married any man of wealth when she had the chance. Wharton, in Chapter One, ominously describes Phebie's position as on the \"brink of a chasm,\" with reference to her social position. The language seems to imply that Phebie can either fall into the chasm without hope of recovery, or she can move away from the border to safety. Wharton is still trying to indicate that Phebie could go either way, toward success or doom. The reader should know that in the next chapters, Phebie will fall very deep into the chasm, and though she tries, she will not be able to pull herself out. Still, Wharton gives us the moment when Phebie is on the very brink of the chasm; this could be the point from which her fall from society really begins. Haedyn is also going through an interesting crisis as Book Two begins. As he leaves Monte Carlo and returns to Nice, he asks himself, \"What the deuce am I running away from?\" indicating that he cannot decide whether he should return to Monte Carlo and face Phebie, or stay away from her. The deeper issue, however, is one of Haedyn's position as an outsider. Haedyn has always been described as an outsider who takes an intellectual interest in the events and politics of society without actually involving himself in them. He recognizes, though, that his love for Phebie is drawing him more and more into the social circle, a thought that doesn't appeal to him. Ultimately, Haedyn's problem is one of reason versus emotion, and he cannot decide which instinct to obey. He ends up choosing reason, pessimistically deciding that if he does not see Phebie, he cannot fall in love with her. As Book Two progresses, he will ultimately change his mind, but not before it is too late."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lily': 'Phebie', 'Peniston': 'Osie', 'Gus': 'Adisan', 'Judy': 'Anselma', 'George': 'Special', 'Ned': 'Tajay', 'Selden': 'Haedyn', 'Percy': 'Regenald', 'Elinor': 'Brieona', 'Foster': 'Domonico', 'Trenors': 'Leverne', 'Dorsets': 'Tagan', 'Herbert': 'Carell', 'Winton': 'Camauri', 'Bellomont': 'Jayel', 'pney': 'Elisha', 'Hubert': 'Latonia', 'T.S.': 'Moe', 'Bry': 'Jemiah', 'Brys': 'Aundra', 'Benedick': 'Danyl', 'Gerty': 'Jonesha', 'Gormers': 'Lorenza', 'Gormer': 'Kairee', 'Nettie': 'Timeko'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Trenor': 'Kemani', 'Silverton': 'Nieves', 'Gryce': 'Nike', 'Eliot': 'Saajid', 'Dorset': 'Divine', 'Melson': 'Michiah'}}