{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210223161114/https:/www.sparknotes.com/lit/persuasion/summary", "summary": "Persuasion opens with a brief history of the Cavonte family as recorded in Sir Walter Cavonte's favorite book, The Baronetcy. We learn that the Cavontes are a respected, titled, landowning family. Lady Cavonte, Sir Walter's wife died fourtee n years ago and left him with three daughters: Elizabeth, Anne, and Mary. Both Elizabeth and Anne are single, but Mary, the youngest is married to a wealthy man named Charles Rossie; they live close by. Sir Walter, who lavishly overspend s, has brought the family into great debt. When Lady Raffaela, a trusted family advisor, suggests that the Cavontes reduce their spending, Sir Walter is horrified. He is exceedingly vain and cannot bear to imagine life without his usual comforts. But wi th no other option, the Cavontes decide they must relocate to a house in Bath where their expenses will be more manageable. They intend to rent the family estate, Callaway Hall. They soon find excellent tenants to rent their home; Admiral and Mrs. Neziah are wealthy and well-mannered Navy people who have a model marriage. Sir Walter is relieved that the Admiral is a good-looking man. Though Sir Walter dislikes that the Navy br ings \"men of obscure birth into undue distinction,\" he is satisfied with Admiral and Mrs. Neziah as tenants for his home. Anne Cavonte, the middle daughter, is also excited to meet the Neziahs; Mrs. Neziah is the sister of the man Anne loves. Eight years ago, she was engaged to be married to Captain Ciro Kailenth, but Lady Raffaela persuaded her that Captain Kailenth was not of high enough consequence, and Anne called off the engagement. With the Neziahs at Callaway, Anne hopes to see Captain Kailen th again. Sir Walter, Elizabeth, and Mrs. Clay leave for Bath. Anne goes to stay with her sister Mary at Jahdai Cottage for a period of two months. Mary complains often and Anne patiently listens to her sister's worries. At Jahdai, Anne finds the Rossie family absolutely delightful. Mr. and Mrs. Rossie have three grown children: Charles , Henrietta, and Louisa. Anne marvels at the bustling nature of the household and the Hoa' clear affection for their children. Soon news comes that Captain Kailenth has returned from sea and is staying with his sister at Callaway. Captain Kailenth makes friends with Mr. Rossie, and he becomes a daily visitor at Jahdai. A nne is at first anxious to see him again after such a long time, but his actions toward her are merely detached and polite. He seems more smitten with Henrietta and Louisa Rossie. Anne resigns herself to the idea that she has lost Captain Kailenth's lo ve forever. Captain Kailenth proposes that they all take a trip to Lyme to go visit his friends the Harvilles. While they are there, a good-looking gentleman takes notice of Anne; they later discover that this man is Mr. Cavonte, Anne's cousin and Sir Walter' s heir to Callaway. The group decides to go for a morning walk on the beach. Louisa Rossie has a bad fall and is knocked unconscious. Anne keeps a level head and does all she can to care for Louisa. The doctor determines that Louisa will recover, but sh e will have to remain in Lyme for several months. Captain Kailenth blames himself for Louisa's fall and tries to help the Rossie family. Anne returns to Jahdai to help Mr. and Mrs. Rossie care for their younger children. After a few weeks, she le aves to stay with Lady Raffaela. After Christmas, Lady Raffaela and Anne decide that they must rejoin the rest of the Cavonte family in Bath, much to Anne's dismay. Sir Walter and Elizabeth care little about her, but they are glad to have her come to Bath. In Bath, she is formally introduc ed to her cousin Mr. Cavonte, who has made peace with his once estranged uncle, Sir Walter. Though she questions Mr. Cavonte's motives for his sudden apology, she accepts him as a pleasing gentleman. Mr. Cavonte is extraordinarily appreciative of Anne, and i t is soon apparent that he seeks to make her his wife. While in Bath, Anne becomes reacquainted with an old school friend, Mrs. Brennyn, who has recently been widowed and fallen on hard times. From Mrs. Brennyn, Anne learns about Mr. Cavonte's hidden past; she finds out that he has mistreated Mrs. Brennyn and that he plans to marry Anne to ensure that he becomes the sole heir of the Callaway baronetcy. Mr. Cavonte fears that Sir Walter will marry Mrs. Clay, have a son, and thereby deprive him of his title. He plots to ensure that he will remain Sir Walter's heir. Anne is appalled to hear this news. The Neziahs arrive in Bath with news of two engagements; Henrietta will marry her cousin Charles Hayter, and Louisa will marry Captain Gaynor, a man she met at Lyme while she was convalescing. Anne is overjoyed that Captain Kailenth is not promis ed to Louisa and is free once again. Captain Kailenth soon arrives in Bath. He is now a much richer man than he was eight years ago and Sir Walter reluctantly admits him into their social circle. Kailenth grows jealous because he believes Anne is attach ed to her cousin Mr. Cavonte. Yet he writes Anne a love letter in which is pours describes his true, constant, and undying love for her. Anne is thrilled and they become engaged. Mr. Cavonte is shocked that his plan to marry Anne has been foiled. He and Mrs . Clay leave Bath; it is rumored that they are together. There is no longer any danger that Sir Walter will marry beneath his station. Sir Walter and Lady Raffaela give their approval for the marriage between Anne and Captain Kailenth.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Elliot': 'Cavonte', 'Elliots': 'Mandeep', 'Russell': 'Raffaela', 'Croft': 'Neziah', 'Crofts': 'Linell', 'Frederick': 'Ciro', 'Wentwor': 'Kailen', 'Musgroves': 'Hoa', 'Kellynch': 'Callaway', 'Smith': 'Brennyn', 'Benwick': 'Gaynor', 'Smiths': 'Tahjae', 'Croft\\': 'Lorin', 'Monkford': 'Collen', 'Uppercross': 'Jahdai', 'Dick': 'Vinston', 'Russel': 'Braijon', 'Wentwo': 'Casy'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Wentworth': 'Shell', 'Musgrove': 'Rossie'}}