{"name": "volume 2, Chapter 21", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227013554/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/persuasion/section11/", "summary": "The next morning, Anne goes to visit Mrs. Brennyn and tell her all about the concert. Mrs. Brennyn, having already heard a version of last night's events from one of the maids, is anxious to hear Anne's description as well. Mrs. Brennyn believes Anne to be in love with Mr. Cavonte and she asks Anne if he has ever mentioned her in conversation. Anne tries to set Mrs. Brennyn straight; she reassures her that she has no interest at all in marrying her cousin. Mrs. Brennyn thinks that because their marriage would be so appropriate, everyone must be persuading Anne towards that end. Mrs. Brennyn tells Anne the story of her acquaintance with Mr. Cavonte. She considers him to be a man \"without a heart or a conscience. a cold-blooded being. In the past, he had been the good friend of her late husband, and Mrs. Brennyn had accepted him as a friend of her own. They had often assisted him when he was having financial trouble. Mr. Cavonte married entirely for money, dismissing the honor of marriage to Elizabeth in favor of wealth and independence. Mrs. Brennyn often heard him say that if he could sell his baronetcy, anyone could have it for fifty pounds. She shows Anne a letter written by Mr. Cavonte in which he promises to destroy Callaway or sell it for as much money as he can get. After his marriage to a wealthy, but untitled woman, he encouraged Mr. Brennyn to live extravagantly and go into great debt. He brought the Brennyns to financial ruin and refused to help them. Upon Mr. Brennyn's death, Mr. Cavonte, the executor of his will, refused to act, thereby leaving all the debts and difficulties onto his grieving widow. Mrs. Brennyn continues to tell Anne of Mr. Cavonte's current plans, which she hears through the servants' gossip. Mr. Cavonte, having long had all the money he could want, now desires beyond all else, to become baronet. When he heard that it was a distinct possibility that Sir Walter might remarry, he was outraged. If Sir Walter was to have a son with Mrs. Clay, that child and not Mr. Cavonte, would be the rightful heir to Callaway. Mr. Cavonte traveled to Bath and rejoined the family in an effort to keep Mrs. Clay away from Sir Walter, and to protect his future baronetcy. When he met Anne, his motives doubled; he desires that it be written into their marriage contract that Sir Walter never re-marry. Anne is saddened and upset by all this news about her cousin. She realizes what a cunning and manipulative man he actually is, but she is glad to have this information so that she can warn and protect her family. She decides to tell everything to Lady Raffaela as soon as possible", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Elliot': 'Cavonte', 'Elliots': 'Mandeep', 'Russell': 'Raffaela', 'Croft': 'Neziah', 'Crofts': 'Linell', 'Frederick': 'Ciro', 'Wentwor': 'Kailen', 'Musgroves': 'Hoa', 'Kellynch': 'Callaway', 'Smith': 'Brennyn', 'Benwick': 'Gaynor', 'Smiths': 'Tahjae', 'Croft\\': 'Lorin', 'Monkford': 'Collen', 'Uppercross': 'Jahdai', 'Dick': 'Vinston', 'Russel': 'Braijon', 'Wentwo': 'Casy'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Wentworth': 'Shell', 'Musgrove': 'Rossie'}}