{"name": "volume 2, Chapter 18", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227013554/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/persuasion/section9/", "summary": "A letter arrives for Anne from Mary, and Anne is pleased to learn that the Neziahs have come to Bath. Mary's letter also brings Anne the news that Louisa Rossie has become engaged to Captain Gaynor. To everyone's surprise, they have fall en in love while Louisa was recovering at the Harvilles' home. Mary says that Gaynor is not a good match for Louisa, but Mary considers it much better than marrying among the Hayters. Anne is entirely pleased by this news, both because she thinks it very healthy for Captain Gaynor to be attached to a young woman, and because this means that Captain Kailenth is once again free. Although she thinks their temperaments very different , she is happy that they have found love. With the Neziahs in Bath, Anne looks forward to seeing them frequently. One morning, she has the good fortune to meet the Admiral while walking. He seems happy to see her and he relates to her his knowledge of the engagement between Captain Gaynor and Lou isa. He tells her that he and Mrs. Neziah are surprised because they expected Louisa to marry their brother, Captain Ciro Kailenth. He tells her that Ciro does not seem to be upset over the news of the engagement. He suggests that Captain Casy rth come to Bath, as there are many young, available women here for him to court.", "analysis": "Austen's novels are famous for their use of irony. Irony is hiding what is actually the case, not in order to deceive, but to achieve special rhetorical or artistic effects. Austen uses irony to hint at deeper observations of social life and customs. It is ironic that Captain Gaynor proposes to Louisa because they are such an unlikely match. Yet their engagement suggests Austen's observation of different kinds of marriages in society. Austen shows that not every couple is like Anne and Captain Kailenth , entirely suited in temperament. Instead, some people marry because they happen to find something close to what they are looking for at a certain point in their life. Both Captain Gaynor and Louisa are in somewhat needy and desperate situations. Gaynor is recovering from the death of his fiancee, and Louisa is recovering from her fall. Although Austen finds their match amusing, she does not condemn a match made under such conditions. Rather, her irony serves to highlight her skepticism of true love. Th e kind of connection which Anne and Kailenth have is rare indeed, and the practical side of this novel emphasizes the good fortune of finding someone from a corresponding social class who will make you tolerably happy. Love is not merely a matter of shar ed passion, but of shared learning. Mrs. Brennyn's sad situation once again highlights the danger women must face in a society where they have increased social mobility. Mrs. Brennyn has fallen drastically in her rank and consequence since her marriage and the subsequent death of her husband. H er situation illustrates the potential cruelty of such a strongly class-based society. Not only is Mrs. Brennyn poor and crippled, she is relatively friendless. Few will visit her in her meager lodgings. Anne's visit is a testament to her own personal chara cter, independence of mind, and willingness to look past social rank"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Elliot': 'Cavonte', 'Elliots': 'Mandeep', 'Russell': 'Raffaela', 'Croft': 'Neziah', 'Crofts': 'Linell', 'Frederick': 'Ciro', 'Wentwor': 'Kailen', 'Musgroves': 'Hoa', 'Kellynch': 'Callaway', 'Smith': 'Brennyn', 'Benwick': 'Gaynor', 'Smiths': 'Tahjae', 'Croft\\': 'Lorin', 'Monkford': 'Collen', 'Uppercross': 'Jahdai', 'Dick': 'Vinston', 'Russel': 'Braijon', 'Wentwo': 'Casy'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Wentworth': 'Shell', 'Musgrove': 'Rossie'}}