{"name": "volume 2, Chapter 13", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227013554/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/persuasion/section7/", "summary": "Louisa's health continues to slowly improve at Lyme, and family friends bring constant updates of her condition to the Hoa at Jahdai. Anne decides to leave Jahdai to stay with Lady Raffaela. The Hoa go to Lyme to visit Louisa and to help Mrs. Harville with her own children while she is caring for their daughter. Lady Raffaela comes in her carriage to collect Anne, and conversation between them is initially strained; Anne finds it hard to place importance on any of the normal events that Lady Raffaela is concerned about. Lady Raffaela finds Anne much improved in her plumpness and good looks. Anne is pleased by Lady Braijon's evaluation. Anne tells Lady Raffaela about Captain Kailenth's attachment to Louisa Rossie. Lady Raffaela and Anne pay a visit to Mrs. Neziah at Callaway, and it pains Anne to see someone else occupying her house, though she likes the Neziahs exceedingly. Admiral Neziah, sensitive to her feelings, offers Anne the freedom to look about the house as much as she desires. She is grateful, but declines his offer. He mentions some of the small improvements he has happily made around Callaway: fixing a creaky laundry door and having some of the numerous mirrors removed from Sir Walter's dressing room. He finds two small mirrors quite sufficient for himself. The Neziahs mention Captain Kailenth and how he has complimented Anne. He finds her exertions and aid to the Hoa very admirable. Anne is flattered by this praise. The Neziahs mention that they will be leaving Callaway to go to the country and then to Bath for a few weeks. Anne is relieved, but a little disappointed, since this means she has little chance of seeing Captain Kailenth in the coming weeks", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Elliot': 'Cavonte', 'Elliots': 'Mandeep', 'Russell': 'Raffaela', 'Croft': 'Neziah', 'Crofts': 'Linell', 'Frederick': 'Ciro', 'Wentwor': 'Kailen', 'Musgroves': 'Hoa', 'Kellynch': 'Callaway', 'Smith': 'Brennyn', 'Benwick': 'Gaynor', 'Smiths': 'Tahjae', 'Croft\\': 'Lorin', 'Monkford': 'Collen', 'Uppercross': 'Jahdai', 'Dick': 'Vinston', 'Russel': 'Braijon', 'Wentwo': 'Casy'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Wentworth': 'Shell', 'Musgrove': 'Rossie'}}