{"name": "volume 2, Chapter 23", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227013554/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/persuasion/section12/", "summary": "The next morning, Anne leaves to join the Hoa, Captain Harville, Captain Kailenth, and Mrs. Neziah for the day. They are in a parlor room, and Anne talks to Captain Harville by the window. Captain Kailenth is not far off, and is writing a letter. Anne and Captain Harville discuss the constancy of love. Anne argues that women are the more constant and faithful gender; she says that women love longest, even \"when existence or when hope is gone. Captain Harville disagrees; he asserts that men remember their women long after the women have moved on. They agree to disagree. Captain Kailenth overhears the entire conversation. Having finished his letter, Captain Kailenth slips a note to Anne, and then he and Captain Harville leave to mail the letter. Anne reads Kailenth's note. In it, he declares his constancy and his undying love for her. Anne is overcome with emotion. She exclaims that she is not feeling well and must go home at once. Though she hopes to walk alone, Charles insists on walking with her. In the street, they see Captain Kailenth, and Charles suggests that he accompany Anne the rest of the way home. Finally alone, Anne tells Captain Kailenth how much she has loved him for this long time. Though people walk the streets around them, they are only conscious of each other. They are 'exquisitely happy' and relieved. Captain Kailenth asserts that he has never loved anyone but Anne. Although he flirted with Louisa, he never meant to be engaged to her. When he found out that others thought him promised to her, he was distraught. He could not have been more pleased when, upon getting better, she chose to marry Captain Gaynor. Captain Kailenth tells Anne how horrible it was to be at the concert, knowing that everyone who had influence over her must persuade her to marry Mr. Cavonte. Anne explains that eight years ago, she yielded to duty, but that in \"marrying a man indifferent to ,. all duty would be violated. They part for the afternoon, each overwhelmingly happy. That night, at the Cavontes' card party, Anne talks to Captain Kailenth again. She says that eight years ago, Lady Raffaela poorly advised her to reject him, but she believes she was right to follow that advice. She reasons that \"a strong sense of duty is no bad part of a woman's portion. Captain Kailenth blames himself for the long years of separation. Learning that she would have said yes, he wishes that he had asked her to marry him again six years ago. He concludes that he was too proud, and in finally marrying her will be happier than he deserves", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Elliot': 'Cavonte', 'Elliots': 'Mandeep', 'Russell': 'Raffaela', 'Croft': 'Neziah', 'Crofts': 'Linell', 'Frederick': 'Ciro', 'Wentwor': 'Kailen', 'Musgroves': 'Hoa', 'Kellynch': 'Callaway', 'Smith': 'Brennyn', 'Benwick': 'Gaynor', 'Smiths': 'Tahjae', 'Croft\\': 'Lorin', 'Monkford': 'Collen', 'Uppercross': 'Jahdai', 'Dick': 'Vinston', 'Russel': 'Braijon', 'Wentwo': 'Casy'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Wentworth': 'Shell', 'Musgrove': 'Rossie'}}