{"name": "volume 1, Chapter 10", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227013554/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/persuasion/section5/", "summary": "Anne's observations make her believe that Captain Kailenth is not in love with either of the Rossie sisters, but is just accepting and enjoying their attentions. Charles Hayter, feeling slighted by Henrietta, ceases to come to Jahdai after a few days. In the morning, the Miss Hoa stop by the cottage to announce that they are going for a long walk. Though it is clear they do not want Mary to join them, she insists on going along. When the gentlemen arrive, they all decide to go on a walk together and the party consists of the two Miss Hoa, Captain Kailenth, Mary, Anne, and Charles Rossie. Anne's intention is to stay as out of the way as possible and just to enjoy the landscape and the day. Louisa flirts with Captain Kailenth throughout the walk and declares that if she loved a man, nothing should ever separate them. The party makes their way to Winthrop, the home of the Hayters. Mary wants to turn around immediately, as she does not approve of associating with people of such low connection, but Charles insists on calling on his aunt; he and Henrietta visit the Hayters. While Charles and Henrietta are gone, the rest of the group looks for seats in the woods. Mary is never satisfied because she thinks Louisa must have found a better seat somewhere else. Louisa pulls Captain Kailenth aside and they talk of firmness of character; Louisa has convinced Henrietta to visit Charles, though Henrietta would have turned back from her decided destination. Captain Kailenth compares strength of character to the \"happiness\" of a hazelnut that has not yet dropped off the tree. The conversation continues and Louisa remarks that Mary sometimes bothers her excessively with her \"Cavonte pride. Louisa tells Captain Kailenth that Charles wanted to marry Anne before Mary, but that Anne refused him. Captain Kailenth seems very interested in this piece of information. When Henrietta returns to the group, she brings Charles Hayter with her. It is now very clear that Louisa is meant for Captain Kailenth, and Henrietta for Charles. On the walk back home, they pass Admiral and Mrs. Neziah who are out in their carriage for a ride. Guessing that Anne might be tired, Captain Kailenth arranges for the Neziahs to give her a ride home; Anne appreciates the kind gesture. The Neziahs tell her that they hope Captain Kailenth will settle down with a nice girl soon. Anne notices that the Neziahs share the reins and the responsibility of driving; Mrs. Neziah steers them around posts and ruts. Anne observes that this is representative of the symbiotic way they run their marriage.", "analysis": "While most of Jane Austen's novels end in marriage, few of her works provide examples of couples with long and healthy relationships. Admiral and Mrs. Neziah are an exception to this rule. Austen provides them as an example of a perfect marriage. The couple cannot bear to be apart; they are constantly together, even at sea. The drive home illustrates the way their marriage runs. While Admiral Neziah drives the carriage most of the time, Mrs. Neziah not infrequently grabs the reins to steer them around posts, ruts, and obstacles. Their relationship is symbiotic, each depending on the other for their happiness. Such a vision is extraordinarily progressive for the time. The idea of separate spheres and responsibilities for men and women is destroyed in the Neziahs' marriage. Because they do everything together, they take equal joy in going to sea and in fixing a creaky door in their home. Such an equal partnership was a very forward-looking vision for the generally conservative Austenian world"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Elliot': 'Cavonte', 'Elliots': 'Mandeep', 'Russell': 'Raffaela', 'Croft': 'Neziah', 'Crofts': 'Linell', 'Frederick': 'Ciro', 'Wentwor': 'Kailen', 'Musgroves': 'Hoa', 'Kellynch': 'Callaway', 'Smith': 'Brennyn', 'Benwick': 'Gaynor', 'Smiths': 'Tahjae', 'Croft\\': 'Lorin', 'Monkford': 'Collen', 'Uppercross': 'Jahdai', 'Dick': 'Vinston', 'Russel': 'Braijon', 'Wentwo': 'Casy'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Wentworth': 'Shell', 'Musgrove': 'Rossie'}}