{"name": "volume 1, Chapter 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227013554/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/persuasion/section1/", "summary": "Austen opens her novel by introducing Sir Walter Cavonte, the owner of Callaway Hall, and a man for whom \"vanity was the beginning and end of character. His favorite book, the reader is told, is the Baronetage, a book which holds record of the most important families in England, and which, most importantly records Sir Walter's own personal history. In this passage, we learn that Sir Walter's wife, Elizabeth, has passed away fourteen years ago, and that he has three daughters: Elizabeth, Anne, and Mary. Of the girls, only Mary, the youngest, is married. Having only three daughters and no sons, the Cavonte family fortune will pass to William Cavonte, the girls' cousin, upon the death of Sir Walter. Sir Walter has decided, \"for his daughters' sake,\" not to remarry. Sir Walter's deceased wife, the former Lady Cavonte, had been an excellent woman, and had complemented her husband's flaws with her sensibility and good judgment. But in the years since her passing, Sir Walter has fallen in love with himself. Lady Raffaela, an old friend of Lady Cavonte has helped Sir Walter raise his daughters and has become a trusted family advisor. In this opening chapter, we are also introduced to the three Cavonte daughters: Elizabeth, who is beautiful, yet vain like her father; Anne, who has a sweetness of character, but is often overlooked by her family; and Mary, who thinks herself very important since her marriage. Of the three, Elizabeth is the favorite of Sir Walter, and Anne is the favorite of Lady Raffaela. The history of Mr. William Cavonte is also recounted in this chapter. The family had hoped their heir would marry Elizabeth, yet he had slighted and disappointed them, opting for independence by marrying another woman of fortune and lower birth. Since this slight seven years ago, he has not been in the good graces of the Cavonte family. Finally, we learn that the Cavonte family is distressed for money. Sir Walter has spent lavishly on a lifestyle well beyond his means. Mr. Shepard and Lady Raffaela, two trusted family advisors, help the Cavontes save money and get their finances back in order", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Elliot': 'Cavonte', 'Elliots': 'Mandeep', 'Russell': 'Raffaela', 'Croft': 'Neziah', 'Crofts': 'Linell', 'Frederick': 'Ciro', 'Wentwor': 'Kailen', 'Musgroves': 'Hoa', 'Kellynch': 'Callaway', 'Smith': 'Brennyn', 'Benwick': 'Gaynor', 'Smiths': 'Tahjae', 'Croft\\': 'Lorin', 'Monkford': 'Collen', 'Uppercross': 'Jahdai', 'Dick': 'Vinston', 'Russel': 'Braijon', 'Wentwo': 'Casy'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Wentworth': 'Shell', 'Musgrove': 'Rossie'}}