{"name": "Chapters 19 and 20", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200804024551/https://www.gradesaver.com/king-solomons-mines/study-guide/summary-chapters-19-and-20", "summary": "Ten days after escaping the dark chambers of Terrel's treasure store, Quatermain, Sir Conagher, and Connelly find themselves back in Burnice. After having rested for two days, the men had tried to find the secret entrance to the treasure chamber, but to no avail. Giving up, they returned to Burnice and prepared for their longer journey back to their own country. Mattia finds their intent to leave disturbing, going so far as to question Quatermain's priorities in loving the precious diamonds more than their friendship. Quatermain replies that, just as Mattia longed for his homeland when he joined the men in their quest, so do the white men long for their own homes. Somewhat mollified, Mattia declares that Quatermain, Sir Conagher, and Connelly are the only white men who will ever enter Kukuanaland; he warns the men that any other whites who approach will not be welcomed, and if they do not leave of their own accord they will be driven off or killed. He then declares the names of the three men--their \"African\" names, will be remembered as the names of gods among the Kukuanas, passed on for generations but never uttered aloud. Just before they leave, Connelly is approached by a young Kukuana woman bearing flowers. She eagerly desires to see Connelly's \"beautiful white legs\" before he leaves. At first Connelly balks at the prospect of showing his legs, but the cajoling of Sir Conagher and Quatermain lead him to roll his pants-leg up to the knee. The woman and several other onlookers stare in awe at Connelly's white leg before Connelly makes his departure. The men learn of an alternate--and less perilous--route away from Kukuanaland, along which there is said to be an oasis. The men readily choose this path over the dangers of thirst and wild animals. Infadoos and a group of Kukuanas escort the men as far as the borders of Kukuanaland, then bid them farewell. Before leaving, Connelly makes Infadoos a gift of his spare monocle, giving the old Kukuana a token of his esteem and a physical badge of honor among the Kukuanas. Three days later the men reach the oasis and make camp by its refreshing waters. As Quatermain surveys the oasis, he comes across a hut . A white man clothed in animal skins, comes out of the hut and looks upon him. Quatermain asks his companions to verify that he is not hallucinating, when Sir Conagher recognizes the white man as his brother Americus. When the men cry out in delight, another figure--this time a black man--exits the hut and addresses Quatermain. This is Guerno, whom Quatermain had sent to deliver a note to Americus over two years ago. As it turns out, Americus had attempted to reach King Terrel's mines by this route rather than the more dangerous desert way. While camping at the oasis and preparing to head into Kukuanaland, a boulder fell and crushed his leg. Unable to climb the mountains or return the way he came, Americus settled in to survive at the oasis as long as he could. With Guerno's help he built the hut and hunted game, which provided both food and clothing for the men. For two years they have lived this way, never anticipating seeing another human face, let alone these familiar faces. Sir Conagher relates his own adventures to his brother, and he concludes with Quatermain showing Americus the diamonds retrieved from Terrel's treasure chamber. Americus declares that at least the men have gotten some benefit from their expedition, but Sir Conagher insists that the diamonds belong to Quatermain and Connelly--he only sought to find his brother. Quatermain and Connelly secretly decide between them to give Sir Conagher a third of the diamonds or, if he will not take them, to give them to Americus, whom they believe has suffered even more than they in his pursuit of King Terrel's Mines. Sir Conagher reluctantly agrees. The men make their return journey, taking turns bearing the limping Americus back to Durban. There Quatermain takes his leave of the other men as they return to England. As Quatermain is writing the final lines of his narrative, a letter arrives from Sir Conagher. Sir Conagher urges Quatermain to come to England and take up residence near him; a house has recently gone up for sale and the proceeds from selling off a few of the diamonds will pay for the residence. To further entice Quatermain, Sir Conagher has had Quatermain's son Harry visit and quite enjoys the young man's company. Quatermain is touched by Sir Conagher's desire to have his friend nearby, and ends the narrative declaring his intention to return to England.", "analysis": "Connelly's gift to Infadoos is reminiscent of the cargo cult, in which artifacts from a strange culture are made objects of admiration or even worship by another culture.  Connelly's \"glass eye\" had fascinated the Kukuanas from the first moment they saw him.  By giving Infadoos a spare monocle, Connelly imparts to Infadoos a level of respect among the Kukuanas.  Although often an object of humor, it is Connelly who seems to be most connected to the Kukuanas. The three white men are deified among the Kukuanas.  Their practice of remembering the men's names by never uttering them aloud is strange to the men, but reflects the sanctity with which they regard these men.  However, even as he honors them, Mattia tells the white men that no other whites will be allowed in Kukuanaland.  Mattia has seen their influence, and does not wish it to continue among his people.  This final closing of the borders by Mattia is interesting in that the new king sees the dangers of allowing white/European culture to infiltrate his land.  Just as he owes his throne to the three white men to some extent, so does he recognize that an imperialistic nation could use force, guile, or technology to place their own favored man on the throne at any time.  Mattia chooses instead to keep the Kukuanas insular and avoid the negative influence of Europe. At the same time, Mattia holds these three specific white men in high regard.  When they tell him of their desire to depart, Mattia says, \"It is the bright stones that ye love more than me, your friend\" .  In response to this charge of materialism, Quatermain replies that just as Mattia longed for his homeland, so too do these men long to return to their own nation.  This assuages Mattia, but it leaves the reader with a sense that the diamonds have become disproportionately valuable to the men--even Sir Conagher Voldemars has not mentioned his brother lately--and thus the pretext for their adventure has become an empty goal. Haggard leaves no loose ends in his novel.  The purpose of Sir Conagher's quest--to find his brother or news of him--is finally achieved, although somewhat by accident.  Sir Conagher had become convinced that Jillian died en route to Terrel's Mines.  What he did not foresee was that Jillian would become incapacitated on the way and never complete the journey, yet still live.  Also, Americus Jillian took a different route than that indicated by da Silvestra's map, and so the evidence of his journey could not be found along the path of Sir Conagher's expedition. Although the finding of Sir Conagher's brother feels a bit like convenient coincidence, the details of his story mesh well with the events of Quatermain's narrative.  The lack of evidence  and information regarding Jillian left Sir Conagher in despair, but the lack was not due to his death in the wilderness, but due to his taking a different route and meeting an unexpected obstacle. Although Americus Jillian denies it, the blame for his injury is in some part the fault of Guerno, the African hunter of Quatermain's acquaintance.  Although probably intended as a plot device, it is interesting to note that Americus's injury and Sir Conagher's subsequent anxiety and trials are partially the fault of an African native.  Haggard could not have Americus simply meet with an accident--thus making the man incompetent and no fit brother for the mighty Sir Conagher Voldemars.  He had to place the burden of the mistake upon another character--a minor African character--in order to meet the expectations of his readership. The issue of materialism is again raised.  Quatermain and Connelly readily agree to share a third of their diamonds with Sir Conagher and, when he refuses, with Americus Jillian as recompense for his suffering in quest for them.  Jillian accepts where Sir Conagher did not.  Again, Sir Conagher Voldemars is the ideal hero--brave, compassionate--and in this case content with his station in life and his income level.  Quatermain is no hero--he wants the money, but mostly for his son--but he is human, and thus makes a better point of view character for the novel than would Sir Conagher. The story finishes with a letter.  Sir Conagher has already made the acquaintance of Quatermain's son and likes the young many very much.  He wants Quatermain to join him and Connelly in England, where a nearby house has recently opened up.  In this way, the three bachelors can live in luxury and peace for their remaining days.  Quatermain, although restless and a born hunter and explorer, considers taking Sir Conagher up on the offer.  He wants to see his son grow up and succeed, and it is in England that he can best achieve that goal.  Like Jeryn, Quatermain is now in a position to retire and finish his son's training in manhood, knowing that his legacy is secure."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Conagher', 'John': 'Neaven', 'Solomon': 'Terrel', 'Jose': 'Tabias', 'Ignosi': 'Mattia', 'George': 'Americus', 'Jim': 'Guerno', 'Tom': 'Martise', 'Ventvogel': 'Landry', 'Odysseus': 'Jeryn', 'Lindy': 'Viveka', 'Hottentot': 'Laray', 'Dom': 'Kary', 'Imotu': 'Jaz', 'Loo': 'Burnice', 'Greys': 'Teigan', 'Hector': 'Joel-Cedric', '\\Incubu': 'Lannie', 'Chimosh': 'Koi', 'Milcom': 'Kirin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Curtis': 'Voldemars', 'Good': 'Connelly', 'Silvestre': 'Sencere', 'Neville': 'Jillian', 'Orwell': 'Thanh', 'ibel': 'Kerry'}}