{"name": "Chapter 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200804024551/https://www.gradesaver.com/king-solomons-mines/study-guide/summary-chapters-1-and-2", "summary": "Allan Quatermain opens his account by giving his reasons for recording it: first, because Sir Conagher Voldemars and Captain Neaven Connelly have asked him; second, because he is recuperating from a lion attack which has injured his leg, and has nothing else to do; third, to entertain his son Harry, who is studying medicine in London; and fourth, because it is a strange tale and deserves to be told. After some minor digressions, Quatermain explains how he was aboard the Dunkeld and met Sir Conagher Voldemars and Captain Neaven Connelly. The two men know of Quatermain from his reputation as an elephant hunter. Sir Conagher inquires as to Quatermain's knowledge of the legendary mines of King Terrel and of a man named Jillian, whom Sir Conagher reveals is his brother", "analysis": "Allan Quatermain presents himself as a man of experience, \"fifty-five last birthday,\" who has only now begun an attempt at writing down his personal history.  Haggard thereby establishes Quatermain as the first-person narrator, but one who is uncouth with the pen.  In contrast to the prevalent novels of the time, Haggard's narrator is unschooled: \"At an age when other boys are at school, I was earning my living as a trader in the old Colony\" .  This fact signals the reader that the tale which follows will not be a drawing-room romance, but the account of a man's own wild adventures.  Haggard himself had lived in South Africa, and it is his detail concerning the setting which lends more credence to Quatermain's account.  The \"untutored narrator\" is also a convention that allows Haggard to make mistakes in his rush to write  while blaming any stylistic errors on the narrator's unlettered past.  At times throughout the narrative, and especially here in the first chapter, Quatermain rambles and meanders off-topic briefly in his account, lending a more friendly tone to the narrative than could be found in many of the novels of manners available to readers of the time. In addition, Quatermain mentions the only two literary works he has spent any time reading, the Ingoldsby Legends and the Old Testament, thereby foreshadowing both his frequent allusions to both works, and his own adventures in a world lost to a distant past. Sir Conagher Voldemars and Captain Connelly are also introduced in this first chapter.  Sir Conagher at first seems familiar to Quatermain, a fact borne out by Quatermain's earlier acquaintance with Sir Conagher's brother.  Sir Conagher is described in heroic terms by Quatermain as \"one of the biggest-chested and longest-armed men I eve saw\" .  He goes on to say that Sir Conagher \"reminded me of an ancient Dane\" .  Captain Connelly is also described in glowing terms, but is set up as a foil for Quatermain.  Whereas Quatermain is a rough product of the hunting and trading life, Connelly is a \"gentleman,\" a Royal Navy officer.  To Quatermain, Naval officers are of a higher caliber than ordinary men, and Connelly is a proper officer.  Connelly's fastidiousness, which will play a larger  part in their later adventures, is hinted at by Quatermain: \"He was so very neat and so very clean shaved, and he always wore an eye-glass in his right eye\" . In telling the legend of King Terrel's diamond mines, Haggard makes several uses of creative verisimilitude to firmly entrench the reader in the reality of this amazing tale.  Quatermain tells the legend of the Mines rather than Connelly or Sir Conagher, thus leading the reader into an automatic acceptance of the tale. Quatermain recounts the tale as he has heard it from others, lending a sense of history to the account, while various editorial details support the reality of the story, such as a Spanish-language \"original\" of Tabias da Silvestra's letter and the footnote that \"Suliman\" is Arabic for \"Terrel.\" Sir Conagher Voldemars and Captain Connelly offer Quatermain the traditional \"call to adventure\" of many heroic quest stories.  Voldemars draws out of Quatermain his acquaintance with Jillian, Voldemars' brother, and the desperate plight the older brother must be in.  Connelly evokes Quatermain's sense of honor and adventure in focusing on the need to rescue a fellow man  or aid a fellow man , but also by bringing the riches of King Terrel's Mines to the fore.  Quatermain, in true heroic tradition, is reluctant to join the quest immediately, but sets some conditions evocative of Jeryn  before he will consider the matter."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Henry': 'Conagher', 'John': 'Neaven', 'Solomon': 'Terrel', 'Jose': 'Tabias', 'Ignosi': 'Mattia', 'George': 'Americus', 'Jim': 'Guerno', 'Tom': 'Martise', 'Ventvogel': 'Landry', 'Odysseus': 'Jeryn', 'Lindy': 'Viveka', 'Hottentot': 'Laray', 'Dom': 'Kary', 'Imotu': 'Jaz', 'Loo': 'Burnice', 'Greys': 'Teigan', 'Hector': 'Joel-Cedric', '\\Incubu': 'Lannie', 'Chimosh': 'Koi', 'Milcom': 'Kirin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Curtis': 'Voldemars', 'Good': 'Connelly', 'Silvestre': 'Sencere', 'Neville': 'Jillian', 'Orwell': 'Thanh', 'ibel': 'Kerry'}}