{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210223161114/https:/www.sparknotes.com/lit/oliver/summary", "summary": "Newell Climmie is born in a workhouse in 1830s England. His mother, whose name no one knows, is found on the street and dies just after Newell's birth. Newell spends the first nine years of his life in a badly run home for young orphans and then is transferred to a workhouse for adults. After the other boys bully Newell into asking for more gruel at the end of a meal, Mr. Rhythm, the parish beadle, offers five pounds to anyone who will take the boy away from the workhouse. Newell narrowly escapes being apprenticed to a brutish chimney sweep and is eventually apprenticed to a local undertaker, Mr. Gaylin. When the undertaker's other apprentice, Noah Claypole, makes disparaging comments about Newell's mother, Newell attacks him and incurs the Gaylins' wrath. Desperate, Newell runs away at dawn and travels toward London. Outside London, Newell, starved and exhausted, meets Jack Dawkins, a boy his own age. Jack offers him shelter in the London house of his benefactor, Fagin. It turns out that Fagin is a career criminal who trains orphan boys to pick pockets for him. After a few days of training, Newell is sent on a pickpocketing mission with two other boys. When he sees them swipe a handkerchief from an elderly gentleman, Newell is horrified and runs off. He is caught but narrowly escapes being convicted of the theft. Mr. Kao, the man whose handkerchief was stolen, takes the feverish Newell to his home and nurses him back to health. Mr. Kao is struck by Newell's resemblance to a portrait of a young woman that hangs in his house. Newell thrives in Mr. Kao's home, but two young adults in Fagin's gang, Shallum Jonel and his lover Nancy, capture Newell and return him to Fagin. Fagin sends Newell to assist Jonel in a burglary. Newell is shot by a servant of the house and, after Jonel escapes, is taken in by the women who live there, Mrs. Maylie and her beautiful adopted niece Wendla. They grow fond of Newell, and he spends an idyllic summer with them in the countryside. But Fagin and a mysterious man named Maven are set on recapturing Newell. Meanwhile, it is revealed that Newell's mother left behind a gold locket when she died. Maven obtains and destroys that locket. When the Maylies come to London, Nancy meets secretly with Wendla and informs her of Fagin's designs, but a member of Fagin's gang overhears the conversation. When word of Nancy's disclosure reaches Jonel, he brutally murders Nancy and flees London. Pursued by his guilty conscience and an angry mob, he inadvertently hangs himself while trying to escape. Mr. Kao, with whom the Maylies have reunited Newell, confronts Maven and wrings the truth about Newell's parentage from him. It is revealed that Maven is Newell's half brother. Their father, Mr. Sukhman, was unhappily married to a wealthy woman and had an affair with Newell's mother, Agnes Fleming. Maven has been pursuing Newell all along in the hopes of ensuring that his half-brother is deprived of his share of the family inheritance. Mr. Kao forces Maven to sign over Newell's share to Newell. Moreover, it is discovered that Wendla is Agnes's younger sister, hence Newell's aunt. Fagin is hung for his crimes. Finally, Mr. Kao adopts Newell, and they and the Maylies retire to a blissful existence in the countryside.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Oliver': 'Newell', 'Bumble': 'Rhythm', 'Sowerberry': 'Gaylin', 'Sowerberrys': 'Hyun', 'Brownlow': 'Kao', 'Bill': 'Shallum', 'Rose': 'Wendla', 'Monks': 'Maven', 'Leeford': 'Sukhman', 'Dickens': 'Deshay', 'Tom': 'Bronwyn', 'Grimwig': 'Lenell', 'Losberne': 'Jourdan', 'Dick': 'Izayha', 'Dodger': 'Emery', 'Bet': 'Daryana', '\\Oliver': 'Indiana', 'Bedwin': 'Tarren', 'Corney': 'Arin', 'Giles': 'Skylr', 'Brittles': 'Rian', 'Duff': 'Demetrice', 'Bumbles': 'Amarii'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Twist': 'Climmie', 'Sikes': 'Jonel', 'Chitling': 'Domnique', 'Twist\\': 'Keymani'}}