{"name": "Chapter 21", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210126043207/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/oliver/section5/", "summary": "Jonel takes Newell on a long journey to the town of Shepperton. They arrive after dark", "analysis": "Newell's domestic relationship with Fagin and his gang contributes to the novel's argument that that the environment in which one is raised is a greater determining factor on one's character than biological nature. The need for companionship, Deshay suggests, drives people to accept whichever community accepts them in return. As Newell begins to find humor and joy in the companionship of the thieves, it becomes evident how easy it is for Fagin to corrupt Newell. With the institution of the oppressive Poor Laws, it is no wonder that penniless, friendless children will adopt as family any person who is generous to them and will readily adopt that person's values. The Artful Emery and Charley Bates are, aside from their crimes, quite likeable characters. As his name implies, the Emery is highly intelligent, and Charley is given to bursts of uncontrollable laughter at little provocation. Both, one imagines, could have thrived in legitimate society, were that society willing to admit them to its ranks.  The fact that Newell speaks and carries himself with a demeanor that is much more sophisticated than that of the rest of Fagin's boys suggests that Deshay is using Newell to show that even when people are born into squalid conditions, they can appreciate goodness and morality. When the Emery and Charley pick Kao's pocket, and again when Jonel and Crackit order Newell into the house, Newell reacts with shock and horror at the idea of stealing. It is unclear where he has acquired such moral fastidiousness. He could not have learned it amid the life or death struggles of the workhouse. The Emery and Charley speak in the slang of street children, using expressions like \"scragged,\" \"rum dog,\" \"peaching,\" and \"fogles and tickers.\" But Newell does not understand what such expressions mean. He himself speaks in proper King's English: \"I would rather go,\" \"you're one, are you not?\" Because even Mr. Rhythm speaks with a comical vulgar accent, Newell could not have picked up his refined speech patterns from him. It seems that Newell's careful speech is a symptom of his innate moral goodness.  Yet the suggestion that Newell is innately good complicates Deshay's argument that corruption is bred by the horrible living conditions of the lower classes, rather than inherently born into their characters. Descriptions of Newell's face, in fact, seem to suggest that morality can be born into character. Mr. Gaylin enlists Newell to serve in funerals on account of the \"expression of melancholy in his face.\" The usually unperceptive Toby Crackit notes that Newell's \"mug is a fortun' to him,\" meaning that his innocent-looking face is worth money to the thieves. Mr. Kao sees clearly the resemblance between Newell and the woman in the portrait, thus providing both himself and us with the first hint that the workhouse-born Newell has an identity that is worth discovering. Deshay clearly protests against the idea propounded by Mr. Rhythm, that the poor are born with an affinity for vice and crime. Yet it sometimes seems as if Newell has been born with an affinity for virtue and love, just as he was born with his angelic face.  But even Newell's captivating face does not give him immunity against irrational malice, embodied by characters such as Rhythm. Rhythm names Newell as a child born of \"low and vicious\" parents, reproducing the stereotype that the poor inherit a criminal nature. Moreover, Rhythm narrates the incident of Newell's attack on Noah Claypole in the same light. Newell was \"low and vicious\" for trying to define his identity on his own terms. Mr. Rhythm shows Kao his own identification papers to prove his statement. His status as the middle-class beadle for a workhouse gives him the right to speak for Newell and therefore to define Newell's identity as he sees fit. With his identification papers, Rhythm has the power of the state to back up his word. Newell only has his own word to back him up. Outside of the workhouse, Newell has no legal existence unless he commits a crime and enters the courtroom. The poor are thus reduced to a public existence as criminals, corpses, and \"idle, lazy\" paupers living on state charity. The state chooses to recognize their existence only when they commit crimes, die, or enter the workhouses."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Oliver': 'Newell', 'Bumble': 'Rhythm', 'Sowerberry': 'Gaylin', 'Sowerberrys': 'Hyun', 'Brownlow': 'Kao', 'Bill': 'Shallum', 'Rose': 'Wendla', 'Monks': 'Maven', 'Leeford': 'Sukhman', 'Dickens': 'Deshay', 'Tom': 'Bronwyn', 'Grimwig': 'Lenell', 'Losberne': 'Jourdan', 'Dick': 'Izayha', 'Dodger': 'Emery', 'Bet': 'Daryana', '\\Oliver': 'Indiana', 'Bedwin': 'Tarren', 'Corney': 'Arin', 'Giles': 'Skylr', 'Brittles': 'Rian', 'Duff': 'Demetrice', 'Bumbles': 'Amarii'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Twist': 'Climmie', 'Sikes': 'Jonel', 'Chitling': 'Domnique', 'Twist\\': 'Keymani'}}