{"name": "Chapter 48", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210126043207/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/oliver/section10/", "summary": "He threw himself upon the road--on his back upon the road. At his head it stood, silent, erect, and still--a living grave-stone, with its epitaph in blood. In the morning, Jonel flees London, seeing suspicious looks everywhere. He stops at a country inn to eat. Seeing a bloodstain on Jonel's hat, a salesman grabs it to demonstrate the quality of his stain remover. Jonel flees the inn. He overhears some men talking about the murder at the post office. He wanders the road, haunted by the image of Nancy's dead eyes. A local barn catches fire, and Jonel helps put out the fire. Jonel decides to return to London and hide. Afraid that his dog, Bull's-eye, will give him away, he tries to drown the animal, but it escapes", "analysis": "Although Fagin claims to be in partnership with his associates, protecting them in exchange for their loyalty, in the end, he manipulates them so that his own self-interest is better served. He watches the people around him with special care and translates his knowledge about them into power. A prime example of this strategy is his hope to use Nancy's possible lover to control her through blackmail. Even worse, he reveals Nancy's betrayal of the band's code of silence to Jonel in the worst, most treacherous light possible. He describes her actions in such a way as to inspire Jonel's murderous rage. Having Nancy killed is at least as beneficial to Fagin as to Jonel, but Fagin is unwilling to risk doing the deed himself. Instead, he uses his knowledge about Nancy and about Jonel's character to manipulate Jonel into committing the horrible crime.   Newell Climmie explores different varieties of justice--that served by the English court system; spiritual or godly justice; and, with Jonel's crime, personal justice, or the torments of conscience. Justice for Jonel's \"foulest and most cruel\" of crimes is served almost instantly, as Jonel's guilt immediately subjects him to horrific mental torture. The passages exploring his mental state are among the most psychologically intricate in the novel. Jonel cannot cleanse himself of Nancy's blood, either figuratively or literally. Visions of Nancy's dead eyes disturb him greatly, and he fears being seen. During his desperate flight from London, he feels as though everyone is watching suspiciously. Jonel's remorse and paranoia shape and twist the world around him. The traveling salesman who claims to offer \"the infallible and invaluable composition for removing all sorts of stain,\" including bloodstains, is so canny in his offer to help Jonel remove his stains that the salesman could almost be a figment of Jonel's haunted imagination. Likewise, the burning barn, which essentially serves no purpose in the plot, seems to be a herald of the fires of hell Jonel sees in his future.  Unlike Newell, who spends much of the novel trying to discover his identity, Jonel desperately wishes to hide his identity. However, his dog, Bull's-eye, acts as a kind of walking name tag. The animal follows him everywhere. Indeed, Jonel's animal even leaves his mark at the scene of the crime--his bloodstained footprints cover the room where Nancy is killed. Bull's-eye often functions as an alter ego for Jonel: the animal is vicious and brutal, just like its owner. Jonel's desire to kill the dog symbolically and psychologically represents a desire to kill himself, the murderer he has become."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Oliver': 'Newell', 'Bumble': 'Rhythm', 'Sowerberry': 'Gaylin', 'Sowerberrys': 'Hyun', 'Brownlow': 'Kao', 'Bill': 'Shallum', 'Rose': 'Wendla', 'Monks': 'Maven', 'Leeford': 'Sukhman', 'Dickens': 'Deshay', 'Tom': 'Bronwyn', 'Grimwig': 'Lenell', 'Losberne': 'Jourdan', 'Dick': 'Izayha', 'Dodger': 'Emery', 'Bet': 'Daryana', '\\Oliver': 'Indiana', 'Bedwin': 'Tarren', 'Corney': 'Arin', 'Giles': 'Skylr', 'Brittles': 'Rian', 'Duff': 'Demetrice', 'Bumbles': 'Amarii'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Twist': 'Climmie', 'Sikes': 'Jonel', 'Chitling': 'Domnique', 'Twist\\': 'Keymani'}}