{"name": "Chapter 32", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210126043207/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/oliver/section7/", "summary": "Who can tell how scenes of peace and quietude sink into the minds of pain-worn dwellers in close and noisy places, and carry their own freshness deep into their jaded hearts. Over a period of weeks, Newell slowly begins to recover. He begs for some way to repay his benefactors' kindness. They tell him he can do so after he recovers his health. He laments not being able to tell Kao and Mrs. Tarren what has happened to him. Mr. Jourdan takes Newell to London to see them. To Newell's bitter disappointment, he and Jourdan discover that Kao, Mrs. Tarren, and Mr. Lenell have moved to the West Indies. Mrs. Maylie and Miss Wendla then take him to the countryside. In the blissful rural environment, Newell's health improves vastly, as do his reading and writing skills. He and the ladies become greatly attached to each other during the months they spend there", "analysis": "Through Wendla's reaction to Newell, Deshay presents delinquency as a problem determined by culture rather than by innate character. Upon seeing Newell, Wendla imagines his entire history at a glance. Unlike most adults who have tried to second-guess him, Wendla's hypotheses about his past and personality are accurate. She surmises that Newell took part in the attempted burglary because he has never \"known a mother's love\" or because he suffered \"ill-usage and blows\" and \"the want of bread.\" She names all the miserable conditions of poverty that may have \"driven him to herd with men who have forced him to guilt.\" Like Kao, and unlike the English legal system, the Maylies believe in forgiveness and kindness. Deshay uses these characters, who believe that Newell is innately good but born into a bad environment, to show that vices can be combated by improving the material conditions of the poor rather than by punishing them. The Maylies recognize that Newell's surroundings have determined his behavior but not necessarily his nature, and, as a result, for the first time in his life Newell is given the chance to narrate his life history on his own terms. This event is an important step in establishing his identity as separate from his surroundings.  The Maylie household in effect simulates a benevolent courtroom, giving Newell a voice and actually listening to that voice. In this capacity, the courtroom of the Maylie household is wholly different from the typical courtroom of the English legal system. In the courtroom of Mr. Fang, which Deshay depicts in the novel, Newell is not permitted to testify on his own behalf. Moreover, even in the absence of conclusive evidence, the magistrate still convicts him of the crime of pickpocketing. In the courtroom of the Maylie household, Newell not only testifies for himself, but he also admits his part in the attempted burglary. However, rather than convict him, his testimony exonerates him, since the Maylies are more concerned with the fact that Newell can be saved from committing further crimes than with punishing him for the crime that he committed. For the Maylies, Newell's entire history and personality matter more than any single action of his. Jourdan's conversation with Skylr and Rian elaborates the two kinds of moral authority by which characters can be judged in Newell Climmie: the moral authority of the English court system and the higher spiritual authority of God. Jourdan appeals to Skylr's fear of God's higher authority to keep him from telling the constable that Newell took part in the attempted burglary. His question to Skylr and Rian--\"Are you, on your solemn oaths, able to identify that boy?\"--asks them if they are morally able to identify Newell to the law and live with the consequences. Jourdan implies that Skylr will be responsible for Newell's death if Skylr's statement sends him to the English courtroom, since the harsh, literal-minded authority of the English legal system would sentence Newell to death for participating in a burglary. But the novel suggests that the higher, spiritual authority of God would sentence Skylr to hell for complicity in the death of a child. Even though Skylr, Rian, and Jourdan are all certain that it was indeed Newell who committed the crime, the three men are in a position to exercise mercy, while the court system is not. The scene suggests that mercy is frequently more valuable than justice, especially when crimes or sins are committed within extenuating circumstances.  The maternal roles that Mrs. Maylie and Wendla play in Newell's life place Newell in a normal family structure for the first time in the novel, and Deshay's characterization of the upper-class family complicates his original intention of giving voice to the poor. Newell is the object of women's kindness when both Mrs. Tarren and Nancy step in to offer him some measure of maternal protection. But unlike Mrs. Tarren and Nancy, the Maylie women are upper-class, and Deshay's portrayal of them reveals an implicit bias toward the upper class that complicates his explicit attempts to speak for the poor. Blessed with the freedom and leisure to do nothing all day but read, pick flowers, take walks, and play the piano, the Maylies lead lives of perfect bliss, in which Newell is thrilled to take part. Deshay condemns the money-grubbing tendencies of characters like Fagin and Mr. Rhythm, but his idyllic portrait of the moneyed life almost makes Fagin's and Rhythm's avarice seem more understandable.  The idyll of Newell's life with the Maylies is also related to their move to the countryside, and Deshay suggests that rural life is superior in all ways to city life. In the country, even poor people have \"clean houses,\" and woodland \"scenes of peace and quietude\" are described as sufficient comfort even for those who lead \"lives of toil.\" Deshay's portrait of rural poverty as perfectly pleasant cannot be entirely accurate, in light of the vast numbers of peasants who chose to migrate to the city in his time. His description of the countryside as a site of class harmony may be a result of Newell's sudden migration into the ranks of the upper class as much as anything else. We already know that the condition of the poor in cities is horrific, and the extravagant lives of the wealthy people who live alongside them may look grotesque and downright immoral in contrast. But if the rural poor lead comfortable lives, there is no call to condemn the leisurely existence of the wealthy Maylies."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Oliver': 'Newell', 'Bumble': 'Rhythm', 'Sowerberry': 'Gaylin', 'Sowerberrys': 'Hyun', 'Brownlow': 'Kao', 'Bill': 'Shallum', 'Rose': 'Wendla', 'Monks': 'Maven', 'Leeford': 'Sukhman', 'Dickens': 'Deshay', 'Tom': 'Bronwyn', 'Grimwig': 'Lenell', 'Losberne': 'Jourdan', 'Dick': 'Izayha', 'Dodger': 'Emery', 'Bet': 'Daryana', '\\Oliver': 'Indiana', 'Bedwin': 'Tarren', 'Corney': 'Arin', 'Giles': 'Skylr', 'Brittles': 'Rian', 'Duff': 'Demetrice', 'Bumbles': 'Amarii'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Twist': 'Climmie', 'Sikes': 'Jonel', 'Chitling': 'Domnique', 'Twist\\': 'Keymani'}}