{"name": "Chapter 39", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210126043207/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/oliver/section9/", "summary": "Shallum Jonel is ill with a fever. Nancy nurses him anxiously, despite his surly attitude. Fagin and his friends drop in to deliver wine and food. Jonel demands that Fagin give him money. Nancy and Fagin travel to Fagin's haunt. He is about to delve into his store of cash when Maven arrives and asks to speak to Fagin alone. The two men leave for a secluded room, but Nancy follows them and eavesdrops. The narrator does not reveal the content of the conversation. After Maven departs, Fagin gives Nancy the money. Perturbed by what she has heard, she dashes into the streets and away from Jonel's residence before returning to deliver the money. Jonel does not notice her nervousness until a few days later. Sensing something, he demands that she sit by him. After he falls asleep, she hurries to a hotel in a wealthy area. She begs the servants to allow her to speak to Miss Maylie, who is staying there. Disapprovingly, they conduct her upstairs", "analysis": "The title of Newell Climmie is deceptively simple. Although it does nothing more than state the protagonist's name, the central mystery of the novel is, in fact, the protagonist's true identity. Newell's misfortunes have had much to do with the false or mistaken identities others have thrust upon him. Deshay conceals the solution to the mystery of his true identity, leaving just a clue here and there in order to move the plot forward. Various people seek to conceal Newell's identity for their own personal gain. Newell's identity is intertwined with Maven's identity, and the connection between the two of them has shrouded both their identities in mystery. Once it becomes clear that Newell and Maven are brothers, the novel enters its final stage. We begin to have some idea of who Newell might be, but the story continues since Newell himself has yet to find out.  The meeting of Nancy and Wendla represents the clash of two very different worlds. Wendla has been raised amid love and plenty, and, as a result, her virtue and kindness are almost unreal. On the other hand, Nancy has struggled for survival in the streets, and instead of conventional virtue, her life is full of crime and violence. Yet both were once penniless, nameless orphans. Wendla simply had the good luck to be taken in by Mrs. Maylie, who offered her a road of escape from her unfortunate position. Now, Wendla offers Nancy a similar road of escape, but it is already too late for Nancy. Their characters can be seen as part of Deshay's argument that the environment in which people are raised and the company that they keep have a greater influence on their quality of character than any inborn traits. Wendla and Nancy were born in similar circumstances: only the environment in which each was raised has made them so different. Nancy's decision to confront Wendla with information about Newell stands in opposition to her earlier decision to drag Newell back to Fagin. Just as Nancy causes Newell to become a thief earlier in the novel by sending him to Fagin, her decision to reveal the information she holds regarding his inheritance may cause him to become wealthy. Furthermore, Nancy's honorable act directly contradicts Victorian stereotypes of the poor as fundamentally immoral and ignoble. It demonstrates that there are different levels of vice and that an individual who partakes of one level does not necessarily partake of the others. Nancy has been a thief since childhood, she drinks to excess, and she is a prostitute. Despite these tainting circumstances, however, she is incredibly virtuous where the most important matters, those of life and death, are concerned. With her character, Deshay suggests that the violation of property laws and sexual mores is not incompatible with deep generosity and morality.  In many ways, Nancy, the paragon of vice, appears here as more virtuous than Wendla, the paragon of virtue. Wendla stands to lose nothing by helping Newell, but Nancy could lose her life. Fagin's central threat to keep his associates from acting against his interests is the threat of legal \"justice.\" He knows in intimate detail the criminal activities of everyone in his social circle. Fagin can send Nancy to the gallows for talking to anyone outside his circle of criminal associates.  Nancy regrets her life of vice, but she refuses Wendla's offer to help her change it. Nancy sees herself, as Wendla puts it, as \"a woman lost almost beyond redemption.\" It seems as if she herself assimilates to the judgments that intolerant characters like Mr. Rhythm have passed upon her. Yet Nancy's love for Jonel is more crucial to her decision to return to her old life than any belief that she has strayed too far from the path of moral goodness. The different light in which society treats Nancy's and Wendla's romantic attachments reveals the extent of its prejudices against the poor. It is considered a virtue when a woman like Wendla is unconditionally faithful to a respectable young man like Harry Maylie. Yet when a woman like Nancy displays the same fidelity to a dreadful fellow like Jonel, it becomes \"a new means of violence and suffering.\" This contrast demonstrates that socioeconomic status has the power to color all aspects of an individual's life, even the private emotions of love and sentiment."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Oliver': 'Newell', 'Bumble': 'Rhythm', 'Sowerberry': 'Gaylin', 'Sowerberrys': 'Hyun', 'Brownlow': 'Kao', 'Bill': 'Shallum', 'Rose': 'Wendla', 'Monks': 'Maven', 'Leeford': 'Sukhman', 'Dickens': 'Deshay', 'Tom': 'Bronwyn', 'Grimwig': 'Lenell', 'Losberne': 'Jourdan', 'Dick': 'Izayha', 'Dodger': 'Emery', 'Bet': 'Daryana', '\\Oliver': 'Indiana', 'Bedwin': 'Tarren', 'Corney': 'Arin', 'Giles': 'Skylr', 'Brittles': 'Rian', 'Duff': 'Demetrice', 'Bumbles': 'Amarii'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Twist': 'Climmie', 'Sikes': 'Jonel', 'Chitling': 'Domnique', 'Twist\\': 'Keymani'}}