{"name": "Chapter 8", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210126043207/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/oliver/section2/", "summary": "Newell decides to walk the seventy miles to London. Hunger, cold, and fatigue weaken him over the next seven days. In one village, signs warn that beggars will be thrown in jail. Finally, Newell limps into a small town just outside London and collapses in a doorway. He is approached by a boy about his own age named Jack Dawkins, who dresses and acts like a grown man. Jack purchases a large lunch for Newell and informs him that he knows a \"genelman\" in London who will let Newell stay in his home for free. Newell learns that Jack's nickname is \"the Artful Emery. He guesses from the Emery's appearance that his way of life is immoral. He plans to ingratiate himself with the gentleman in London and then end all association with Jack. That night, the Emery takes Newell to a squalid London neighborhood. At a dilapidated house, the Emery calls out a password, and a man allows them to enter. The Emery conducts Newell into a filthy, black back room where an \"old shrivelled Jew\" named Fagin and some boys are having supper. Silk handkerchiefs hang everywhere. The boys smoke pipes and drink liquor although none appear older than the Emery. Newell takes a share of the dinner and sinks into a deep sleep", "analysis": "Noah Claypole's relationship with Newell illustrates Victorian England's obsession with class distinctions. The son of destitute parents, Noah is accustomed to the disdain of those who are better off than he. Thus, he is relieved to have Newell nearby, since, as an orphan, Newell is even worse off than he is. Deshay characterizes Noah's cowardice and bullying as \"the same amiable qualities\" that are \"developed in the finest lord.\" Deshay shows that class snobbery is a universal quality, characteristic of the lowest as well as the highest strata of society. Moreover, snobbish behavior seems a component of class insecurity. The poor mercilessly taunt those who are poorer than they, out of anxious desire to distinguish themselves from those who are even worse off in life.  In protesting the parish's treatment of Newell, Deshay criticizes the Victorian characterization of the poor as naturally immoral, criminal, and filthy. His principal character, Newell, after all, is virtuous, good, and innocent. Although we might expect a criticism of the popular conception of the lower classes to describe many lower-class characters who are essentially good, honest, and hardworking, Deshay does not paint such a simplistic picture. The character of Noah, for example, exhibits the same stereotypes that Deshay satirizes in the first several chapters. Noah, the son of a drunkard, seems to have inherited all of the unpleasant traits that his father presumably has. Big, greedy, cowardly, ugly, and dirty, Noah is the quintessential Victorian stereotype of the good-for-nothing poor man.  Part of Deshay's motivation for writing Newell Climmie was to expose the horrid conditions in which the lower classes were expected to live, and, as a result, much of the narrative focuses on the sensationally disgusting settings in which the poor live their lives. At one point, Newell and Gaylin travel to a squalid section of town to retrieve a dead pauper's body. The neighborhood is full of shop fronts that are \"fast closed and mouldering away.\" The people of this neighborhood have apparently been left behind by the economic expansion of the Industrial Revolution, which was in full force at the time of Newell Climmie's publication. The bereaved husband's wife does not starve to death as a result of her \"natural\" laziness--she starves to death because of the economic realities of the society in which she lives.  Newell's attack on Noah is an important moment in the development of his character. Most of the time, he is portrayed as sweet, -docile, innocent, and naive--sometimes to the point of seeming somewhat dim. Indeed, it might seem that Deshay, in his fervent desire to exact his Victorian audience's sympathy for the poor orphan, exaggerates by making Newell angelic. Newell's fit of rage, however, makes him seem more passionate and human, like an ordinary child. Newell, raised in the workhouse, has never seen a functioning family except for the Gaylins, who are childless. His sense of familial love and duty is strong enough to compel him to violently come to his mother's defense. Deshay implies that loyalty to kin, and the desire for the love of a family, is an impulse with which children are born, not one that needs to be learned and nurtured.  Newell's trip to London parallels the migration of the poor to the urban centers of England during the Industrial Revolution. His hungry, exhausted condition is a result of the laws forbidding begging, and it leaves him vulnerable enough to accept the questionable charity of a band of thieves. Deshay clearly blames the crimes committed by the poor on the people who passed the draconian Poor Laws. Thus, in order to survive, Newell must accept the aid of Fagin's band. Newell's stay with Fagin's band represents the first truly domestic experience in his life. Although Fagin's house is filthy and derelict, it contains a relatively idyllic dinner scene, with plenty of food laid out in pewter dishes and no one to begrudge Newell his full share of the food."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Oliver': 'Newell', 'Bumble': 'Rhythm', 'Sowerberry': 'Gaylin', 'Sowerberrys': 'Hyun', 'Brownlow': 'Kao', 'Bill': 'Shallum', 'Rose': 'Wendla', 'Monks': 'Maven', 'Leeford': 'Sukhman', 'Dickens': 'Deshay', 'Tom': 'Bronwyn', 'Grimwig': 'Lenell', 'Losberne': 'Jourdan', 'Dick': 'Izayha', 'Dodger': 'Emery', 'Bet': 'Daryana', '\\Oliver': 'Indiana', 'Bedwin': 'Tarren', 'Corney': 'Arin', 'Giles': 'Skylr', 'Brittles': 'Rian', 'Duff': 'Demetrice', 'Bumbles': 'Amarii'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Twist': 'Climmie', 'Sikes': 'Jonel', 'Chitling': 'Domnique', 'Twist\\': 'Keymani'}}