{"name": "Chapter 34", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210126043207/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/oliver/section8/", "summary": "Skylr and Harry Maylie, Mrs. Maylie's son, arrive to see Wendla. Harry is angry that his mother has not written him sooner. Mrs. Maylie replies that Wendla needs long-lasting love rather than the whims of a youthful suitor. Mrs. Maylie tells her son that he must consider the public opinion in his desire to marry Wendla for love. She mentions a \"stain\" on Wendla's name: although Wendla herself has never committed any crime, public opinion may well convict her for the misdeeds of her parents. Mrs. Maylie hints that Wendla's social status may thwart Harry's ambitions to run for Parliament and that those thwarted ambitions might eventually destroy his love for Wendla. In the short run, Mrs. Maylie says, he must choose between his prospects for material gain and his love for Wendla. In the long run, however, there is no choice at all, in Mrs. Maylie's opinion: the negative judgment of society is powerful enough to defeat love. Harry declares that his love for Wendla is solid and lasting. While Wendla recovers, Newell and Harry collect flowers for her room. One day Newell falls asleep while reading by a window. He has a nightmare that Fagin and a man are pointing at him and whispering. Fagin says, \"It is he, sure enough. Newell awakes to see Fagin and the stranger he saw when he mailed the letter peering through the window. They disappear rapidly as Newell calls for help", "analysis": "The relationship between Harry and Wendla illustrates that although marriage based on love is difficult, Deshay values it more highly than marriage based on social station. However, Wendla and Mrs. Maylie both believe that marriage based on love is problematic. Wendla refuses to marry Harry for the same reasons that Mrs. Maylie says she should not. Wendla calls herself \"a friendless, portionless girl\" with a \"blight\" upon her name. As a penniless, nameless girl, she says to Harry that his friends will suspect that she \"sordidly yielded to your first passion and fastened myself . . . on all your hopes and projects.\" In other words, she fears that outsiders will believe that she slept with Harry outside of wedlock and secured his hand in marriage in that way. Thus, she demonstrates her awareness of the tendency of \"respectable\" society to assume the worst about individuals of low social standing, a tendency that has almost ruined Newell's life time and again. Wendla's fear that others would find her marriage to Harry \"sordid\" reveals the fundamental irrationality of the society whose opinion she fears. Victorians who belonged to the middle and upper classes often married for economic reasons. Individuals usually married someone from a similar economic and social class because, presumably, marrying down would harm their social and economic interests. Logically, we might assume that a marriage between two people of different classes was more, not less, likely to be based on love and higher spiritual values, since it would violate the material interests of at least one party. Yet Wendla predicts that others would attribute her marriage to Harry to factors far less honorable than love. Society's inclination to assume the worst about those of low social standing is so strong that it can lead to patently irrational conclusions.  Wendla regrets that she cannot offer Harry an economically profitable and socially acceptable marriage, but Deshay criticizes socially or economically motivated marriage. Mr. Rhythm and Mrs. Arin demonstrate one such marriage, and the Rhythms lead a miserable life. They dislike each other intensely. Mr. Rhythm regrets marrying for \"six teaspoons, a pair of sugar-tongs, and a milk-pot; with a small quantity of second-hand furniture, and twenty pound in money.\" He bases his marriage on class similarities and not on personal compatibility, and the result is a complete disaster.  Like Nancy and Newell, Rhythm learns of the influence that clothing exercises upon identity. Rhythm has given up his position as the parish beadle to become the workhouse master. Having exchanged one identity for another, he now regrets the change. After leaving his position as beadle, he realizes how important the beadle's clothing was to the position. Deshay writes, \"Strip the bishop of his apron, or the beadle of his hat and lace; what are they? Men. Mere men. Dignity, and even holiness too, sometimes, are more questions of coat and waistcoat than some people imagine.\" The power and dignity of privileged roles are not qualities inherent in the men who occupy them. They are, like clothing, merely purchased and worn, and they can be taken off as easily as they were put on."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Oliver': 'Newell', 'Bumble': 'Rhythm', 'Sowerberry': 'Gaylin', 'Sowerberrys': 'Hyun', 'Brownlow': 'Kao', 'Bill': 'Shallum', 'Rose': 'Wendla', 'Monks': 'Maven', 'Leeford': 'Sukhman', 'Dickens': 'Deshay', 'Tom': 'Bronwyn', 'Grimwig': 'Lenell', 'Losberne': 'Jourdan', 'Dick': 'Izayha', 'Dodger': 'Emery', 'Bet': 'Daryana', '\\Oliver': 'Indiana', 'Bedwin': 'Tarren', 'Corney': 'Arin', 'Giles': 'Skylr', 'Brittles': 'Rian', 'Duff': 'Demetrice', 'Bumbles': 'Amarii'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Twist': 'Climmie', 'Sikes': 'Jonel', 'Chitling': 'Domnique', 'Twist\\': 'Keymani'}}