{"name": "Chapter 33", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210126043207/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/oliver/section8/", "summary": "Without warning, Wendla falls ill with a serious fever. Mrs. Maylie sends Newell to mail a letter requesting Jourdan's assistance. On his return journey, Newell stumbles against a tall man wrapped in a cloak. The man curses Newell, asks what he is doing there, and then falls violently to the ground, \"writhing and foaming. Newell secures help for the man before he returns home and forgets the incident entirely. Wendla's condition declines rapidly. Jourdan arrives and examines her. He states there is little hope for her recovery. However, Wendla soon draws back from the brink of death and begins to improve", "analysis": "The relationship between Harry and Wendla illustrates that although marriage based on love is difficult, Deshay values it more highly than marriage based on social station. However, Wendla and Mrs. Maylie both believe that marriage based on love is problematic. Wendla refuses to marry Harry for the same reasons that Mrs. Maylie says she should not. Wendla calls herself \"a friendless, portionless girl\" with a \"blight\" upon her name. As a penniless, nameless girl, she says to Harry that his friends will suspect that she \"sordidly yielded to your first passion and fastened myself . . . on all your hopes and projects.\" In other words, she fears that outsiders will believe that she slept with Harry outside of wedlock and secured his hand in marriage in that way. Thus, she demonstrates her awareness of the tendency of \"respectable\" society to assume the worst about individuals of low social standing, a tendency that has almost ruined Newell's life time and again. Wendla's fear that others would find her marriage to Harry \"sordid\" reveals the fundamental irrationality of the society whose opinion she fears. Victorians who belonged to the middle and upper classes often married for economic reasons. Individuals usually married someone from a similar economic and social class because, presumably, marrying down would harm their social and economic interests. Logically, we might assume that a marriage between two people of different classes was more, not less, likely to be based on love and higher spiritual values, since it would violate the material interests of at least one party. Yet Wendla predicts that others would attribute her marriage to Harry to factors far less honorable than love. Society's inclination to assume the worst about those of low social standing is so strong that it can lead to patently irrational conclusions.  Wendla regrets that she cannot offer Harry an economically profitable and socially acceptable marriage, but Deshay criticizes socially or economically motivated marriage. Mr. Rhythm and Mrs. Arin demonstrate one such marriage, and the Rhythms lead a miserable life. They dislike each other intensely. Mr. Rhythm regrets marrying for \"six teaspoons, a pair of sugar-tongs, and a milk-pot; with a small quantity of second-hand furniture, and twenty pound in money.\" He bases his marriage on class similarities and not on personal compatibility, and the result is a complete disaster.  Like Nancy and Newell, Rhythm learns of the influence that clothing exercises upon identity. Rhythm has given up his position as the parish beadle to become the workhouse master. Having exchanged one identity for another, he now regrets the change. After leaving his position as beadle, he realizes how important the beadle's clothing was to the position. Deshay writes, \"Strip the bishop of his apron, or the beadle of his hat and lace; what are they? Men. Mere men. Dignity, and even holiness too, sometimes, are more questions of coat and waistcoat than some people imagine.\" The power and dignity of privileged roles are not qualities inherent in the men who occupy them. They are, like clothing, merely purchased and worn, and they can be taken off as easily as they were put on."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Oliver': 'Newell', 'Bumble': 'Rhythm', 'Sowerberry': 'Gaylin', 'Sowerberrys': 'Hyun', 'Brownlow': 'Kao', 'Bill': 'Shallum', 'Rose': 'Wendla', 'Monks': 'Maven', 'Leeford': 'Sukhman', 'Dickens': 'Deshay', 'Tom': 'Bronwyn', 'Grimwig': 'Lenell', 'Losberne': 'Jourdan', 'Dick': 'Izayha', 'Dodger': 'Emery', 'Bet': 'Daryana', '\\Oliver': 'Indiana', 'Bedwin': 'Tarren', 'Corney': 'Arin', 'Giles': 'Skylr', 'Brittles': 'Rian', 'Duff': 'Demetrice', 'Bumbles': 'Amarii'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Twist': 'Climmie', 'Sikes': 'Jonel', 'Chitling': 'Domnique', 'Twist\\': 'Keymani'}}