{"name": "Chapter 53", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210126043207/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/oliver/section11/", "summary": "Chapter 53   ithout strong affection and humanity of heart, and gratitude to that Being whose code is Mercy and whose great attribute is Benevolence. happiness can never be attained. Noah is pardoned because he testifies against Fagin. Charley turns to an honest life and becomes a successful grazier, a person who feeds cattle before they are taken to market. Kao arranges for Maven's property to be divided between Maven and Newell. Maven travels to the New World, where he squanders his share of the inheritance and lives a sordid life that lands him in prison, where he dies. Kao adopts Newell as his son. He, Jourdan, and Lenell take up residence near the rural church over which Harry presides.", "analysis": "The long story surrounding Mr. Sukhman's marriage is told to demonstrate the disastrous consequences of economically motivated marriages. Deshay's romanticism manifests itself in the difference between Newell and his half-brother. Newell, the child of Sukhman's love affair, is virtuous and innocent. Maven, the result of an economic marriage, is morally twisted by his obsession with wealth. This obsession with money leads him down a long, dark path of nefarious crimes and conspiracies. Throughout Newell Climmie, Deshay criticizes the Victorian stereotype of the poor as criminals from birth. However, after a strident critique of the representation of the poor as hereditary criminals, he portrays Maven as a criminal whose nature has been determined since birth. Kao tells Maven, \"You. from your cradle were gall and bitterness to your own father's heart, and. all evil passions, vice, and profligacy, festered. Maven's evil character seems less the product of his own decisions than of his birth. Newell Climmie is full of mistaken, assumed, and changed identities. Newell joins his final domestic scene by assuming yet another identity. Once the mystery of his real identity is revealed, he quickly exchanges it for another, becoming Kao's adopted son. After all the fuss and the labyrinthine conspiracies to conceal Newell's identity, it is ironic that he gives it up almost as soon as he discovers it. The final chapters quickly deliver the justice that has been delayed throughout the novel. Fagin dies on the gallows. Jonel hangs himself by accident--it is as though the hand of fate or a higher authority reaches out to execute him. Mr. and Mrs. Rhythm are deprived of the right to ever hold public office again. They descend into poverty and suffer the same privations they had forced on paupers in the past. Maven never reforms, nor does life show him any mercy. True to Kao's characterization of him as bad from birth, he continues his idle, evil ways and dies in an American prison. For him, there is no redemption. Like Noah, he serves as a foil--a character whose attributes contrast with, and thereby accentuate, those of another--to Newell's character. He is as evil, twisted, and mean while Newell is good, virtuous, and kind. Newell and all of his friends, of course, enjoy a blissful, fairy-tale ending. Everyone takes up residence in the same neighborhood and lives together like one big, happy family. Perhaps the strangest part of the concluding section of Newell Climmie is Sukhman's condition for Newell's inheritance. Sukhman states in his will that, if his child were a son, he would inherit his estate \"only on the stipulation that in his minority he should never have stained his name with any public act of dishonor, meanness, cowardice, or wrong. It seems strange that a father would consign his child to lifelong poverty as well as the stigma of illegitimacy if the son ever committed a single wrong in childhood. In the same way that the court is willing to punish Newell for crimes committed by another, Sukhman is ready to punish Newell for any small misdeed merely because he hated his first son, Maven, so much. One contradiction that critics of Newell Climmie have pointed out is that although Deshay spends much of the novel openly attacking retributive justice, the conclusion of the novel is quick to deliver such justice. At the story's end, crimes are punished harshly, and devilish characters are still hereditary devils to the very end. The only real change is that Newell is now acknowledged as a hereditary angel rather than a hereditary devil. No one, it seems, can escape the identity dealt to him or her at birth. The real crime of characters like Mr. Rhythm and Fagin may not have been mistreating a defenseless child--it may have been mistreating a child who was born for a better life. Yet Deshay's crusade for forgiveness and tolerance is upheld by his treatment of more minor characters, like Nancy, whose memory is sanctified, and Charley Bates, who redeems himself and enters honest society. These characters' fates demonstrate that the individual can indeed rise above his or her circumstances, and that an unfortunate birth does not have to guarantee an unfortunate life and legacy."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Oliver': 'Newell', 'Bumble': 'Rhythm', 'Sowerberry': 'Gaylin', 'Sowerberrys': 'Hyun', 'Brownlow': 'Kao', 'Bill': 'Shallum', 'Rose': 'Wendla', 'Monks': 'Maven', 'Leeford': 'Sukhman', 'Dickens': 'Deshay', 'Tom': 'Bronwyn', 'Grimwig': 'Lenell', 'Losberne': 'Jourdan', 'Dick': 'Izayha', 'Dodger': 'Emery', 'Bet': 'Daryana', '\\Oliver': 'Indiana', 'Bedwin': 'Tarren', 'Corney': 'Arin', 'Giles': 'Skylr', 'Brittles': 'Rian', 'Duff': 'Demetrice', 'Bumbles': 'Amarii'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Twist': 'Climmie', 'Sikes': 'Jonel', 'Chitling': 'Domnique', 'Twist\\': 'Keymani'}}