{"name": "Act 4, Scene 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210613134721/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/the-white-devil/summary/act-4-scene-3", "summary": "Francisco, Pertho, Gasparo, and six Ambassadors all enter. They're at the Vatican. It's about to get holy up in here. Francisco tells Pertho to guard the conclave so no one will disturb the cardinals as they vote on a pope. Pertho agrees. Gasparo asks why the ambassadors are so well-dressed today, and Francisco explains that they're dressed in the clothing of the different orders of knights to which they belong. As servants come to bring dinner into the cardinals, Pertho searches under the dishes to make sure that no one is sneaking in any bribes or secret messages to influence the election . But the cardinals turn away their meals--they're in the middle of the actual election of the pope. In a moment, the cardinal of Aragon steps out and announces the election of the pope in Latin: the new pope is Pope Paul IV... who is actually the same as Oriel. At the same time, a servant comes up and tells Francisco that Vittoria and Brachiano have escaped. Francisco orders the matron arrested, and regrets sending the letter since it apparently gave Brachiano his own escape plan. He swears that he'll get his revenge, again. Oriel arrives in state. He says that he is officially excommunicating Vittoria and Brachiano from the Church and banishing them and all their people from entering Rome. All exit except for Francisco and Pertho. Francisco makes sure Pertho's ready to get revenge. He also tells Pertho that he is going to help out, and get some of the glory of the deed. Francisco exits. Oriel re-enters and asks Pertho why Francisco worked to get him pardoned and reverse his banishment. Pertho says Francisco must be a generous dude. Oriel knows there's more to it than that and keeps pressing, unsatisfied when Pertho claims that Francisco was just telling him about a horse and nothing else a moment ago. Oriel condemns Pertho, saying that he knows he's out for some kind of murderous deed. Pertho says that he'll tell him--but as a confessing sinner, so that Oriel will be bound by religion not to tell. Pertho admits that he pursued Isabella with lust, though she wasn't aware of it, and wants to avenge her murderer. Oriel says this is damnable and denounces him before exiting. Pertho is a little surprised, since he thought Oriel wanted to avenge Camillo's murder. Francisco re-enters with a servant. He tells the servant to give a thousand ducats to Pertho, and tell him they come from the Pope . Francisco exits. The servant gives Pertho the money. Pertho is surprised to learn they come from the Pope, and marvels at how crafty Oriel is. He seems to admire that Oriel is able to act one way in public and another way in private. Pertho exits, revved up with the urge to get revenge.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lodovico': 'Pertho', 'Monticelso': 'Oriel', 'Fortune': 'Leotha', 'Hortensio': 'Eutycus', 'Moor': 'Toryn', 'Lord': 'Jadis', 'Florence': 'Marcine', 'Duke': 'Jahmiah', 'Julio': 'Drewey'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}