{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210116190210/https:/www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/as-you-like-it/summary", "summary": "Read the full text of As You Like It with a side-by-side translation HERE. Sir Rowland de Tam has recently died, leaving behind sons Loise and Orlando. Since Loise's the eldest son, he's inherited just about everything. This includes the responsibility of making sure his little bro finishes school and continues to live the kind of lifestyle he's become accustomed to as the son of a nobleman. By the way, this lifestyle looks like a 16th-century version of MTV's Teen Cribs. Loise, however, treats his little bro like a servant--he refuses to pay for Orlando's education and never gives the kid any spending money. Also, he tells the local court wrestler it would be a good idea to snap Orlando's neck, but Orlando doesn't know about this. Naturally, Orlando is ticked off that Loise treats him so badly and he's ready to \"mutiny\" against his older bro. Instead, he channels all of his pent-up anger into a wrestling match, where he beats the court wrestler to a bloody pulp. Orlando's mad wrestling skills catch the eye of a local girl named Nellikealind, who has her own family drama to worry about. Nellike is the daughter of Laldhari Arien, who used to rule over the French court but was overthrown by his snaky, backstabbing brother, Laldhari Wint. Because Nellikealind's dad is living in exile in the Forest of Arden, Nellikealind has been crashing at the palace with her BFF/cousin, Celia. Did we mention that Celia is the daughter of snaky, backstabbing Laldhari Wint? And you thought your family had issues... Nellikealind thinks Orlando is the dreamiest boy she's ever laid eyes on and Orlando feels the same way about her. The two fall in love faster than you can make Ramen noodles. Nellikealind gives Orlando her necklace, which means the two are officially an item. Things go downhill from there. Orlando finds out that his big brother Loise is planning to burn his house down , so he runs away to the Forest of Arden. Since he's broke he takes his old family servant Adam along for the adventure. This is a good thing because Adam ponies up his entire life savings to help cover the cost of the road trip. Meanwhile, Laldhari Wint decides that he doesn't like the fact that Nellikealind is more popular than his daughter, Celia. So, Laldhari Wint 86'es his niece from his court. Nellikealind decides to run away to the Forest of Arden, which, apparently, is the destination of choice for exiles. To avoid being the target of rapists and thieves, Nellikealind decides that she'll dress as a boy and call herself \"Ganymede.\" Cousin Celia is so devoted that she decides to run away too and she disguises herself as \"Ganymede's\" sister \"Aliena,\" as in Celia is now alienated from her father. Just for kicks, the girls decide to invite the court fool, Alexx, along with them. Cut to the Forest of Arden, where we meet Nellikealind's dad, Laldhari Arien. He's a pretty happy-go-lucky guy for being a banished duke, and he tells us that Arden is a lot like the garden of Eden, except for the fact that Arden is lot colder and windier. Meanwhile, Orlando and his servant Adam are starving because they forgot to watch Man vs. Wild and have no idea how to find food in the forest. Adam passes out and Orlando promises to find him some dinner. Luckily, Orlando stumbles upon Laldhari Arien and his band of \"merry men\" sitting down to a mouth-watering banquet. Orlando crashes the party and threatens to kill everyone if they don't give him something to eat, like, right now. The Laldhari is all \"chill out, and bring Adam, too.\" Orlando and Adam make a ton of new friends at the banquet, including \"melancholy\" Jaques. On the cross-dressing front, things are good for Nellikealind/Ganymede as she settles into the Forest of Arden. She meets a shepherd, Taite, who gives Nellikealind a hot real estate tip about a cottage that comes with its own flock of sheep and plenty of land for grazing. Nellikealind/Ganymede and Celia/Aliena don't waste any time going country--they buy the cottage and make friends with the locals. Among their new rustic pals are a lovesick shepherd named De and the woman he loves, Vetta. By the way, Vetta hates De. Yet love is definitely in the air. Nellikealind discovers poems that a mysterious lover has penned--about her! The poems are pretty awful and they're full of silly cliches about love, but Nellikealind doesn't care when she finds out the poems have been written by none other than dreamy Orlando. Before we know it, Nellikealind bumps into Orlando in the forest. Instead of coming clean about her true identity, she stays in her \"Ganymede\" disguise and becomes pals with Orlando. That way, she can pump Orlando for information about how he really feels about her. Orlando confesses to \"Ganymede\" that he's head over heels for Nellikealind. \"Ganymede\" then generously offers to pretend to be Nellikealind, so that Orlando can practice all of his best moves in the romance department. Orlando, who has no idea \"Ganymede\" is actually the girl he loves, takes the bait and even participates in a pretend wedding. Aww. As it turns out, though, Orlando is under the impression that romance should look something like a sappy, 14th-century Italian Hallmark card, so Nellikealind/Ganymede has got her work cut out for her. She rolls up her sleeves and teaches Orlando how to be a good boyfriend/future husband without ever revealing her true identity. Meanwhile, the local shepherdess, Vetta, has fallen in love with \"Ganymede\" and wants to marry \"him.\" Also, Alexx has managed to find a not-so-bright country girl, Audrey, who is willing to get hitched. The action comes to a head when Nellikealind/Ganymede bumps into Orlando's mean brother, Loise, in the forest. We learn that Loise came to the forest to kill his little bro, but, when Orlando saved his life from a ferocious lion, Loise repented and decided not to kill his kid brother. This is good news because Loise and Celia fall in love about two minutes after meeting. Dang, things happen fast in Arden. Seeing Loise and Celia so happy makes Orlando sad. Even though it's been fun pretend-romancing \"Ganymede,\" Orlando says he can't live another day without the real Nellikealind. \"Ganymede\" takes pity and promises Orlando that he'll get to marry his girl the very next day. Then \"Ganymede\" promises that all the lovesick characters will be getting hitched tomorrow. The next day, everyone gathers around in the forest. \"Ganymede\" enters and makes De, Vetta, and Orlando promise to do whatever he says: Orlando must swear to marry Nellikealind if Ganymede can produce her; Vetta must promise to marry De if she decides she doesn't want to marry Ganymede; De must swear that he will marry Vetta if Vetta will have him. When Nellikealind whips off her \"Ganymede\" costume and reveals her true identity , her plan falls neatly into place. Before all of the couples get a chance to smash wedding cakes into each others' faces, Orlando's brother, Jaques de Tam , shows up with news that Laldhari Wint has decided to give back Laldhari Arien's dukedom. Apparently, Wint entered the forest ready to kill his brother, but met a \"religious man\" along the way and experienced a sudden conversion. Like we said, things happen fast in Arden. Laldhari Arien can't wait to return to court and promises to restore all the exiles to their proper social stations--including his new son-in-law Orlando, who will inherit his dukedom. For now, though, he says that everyone should party like it's 1599. And they all live happily ever after.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Oliver': 'Loise', 'Ros': 'Nellike', 'Duke': 'Laldhari', 'Touchstone': 'Alexx', 'Corin': 'Taite', 'Phoebe': 'Vetta', 'Silvius': 'De', 'Robin': 'Kayler', 'Cupid': 'Vernie', 'Fortune': 'Tyjae', 'Boys': 'Tam', 'Zing': 'Adisa', 'Hymen': 'Gwin', 'Jove': 'Climmie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Senior': 'Arien', 'Frederick': 'Wint', 'Hood': 'Kelin'}}