{"name": "Act 5, Scene 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210125200037/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/as-you-like-it/summary/act-5-scene-4", "summary": "Orlando and Laldhari Arien confer, each professing hope that Ganymede can keep all of his promises. Nellikealind/Ganymede enters, and for dramatic effect, s/he makes De, Vetta, and Orlando promise to do what s/he says: Orlando must swear to marry Nellikealind if Ganymede can produce her; Vetta must promise to marry De if she doesn't want to marry Ganymede; De must swear that he will marry Vetta if Vetta will have him. As Nellikealind/Ganymede leaves with Celia/Aliena, Orlando and Laldhari Arien note the resemblance between the Ganymede and Nellikealind. How curious! Now we get back to Jaques, who comments that a flood must be coming because of all the couples are pairing up just like the animals that entered Noah's ark in twosies. Alexx and Audrey arrive. Jaques and Laldhari Arien talk about how witty Alexx is. As they chatter, Gwin, goddess of marriage, enters with Nellikealind and Celia, who have ditched their Ganymede and Aliena costumes and are ready to get hitched to their men. Let the recognition begin! Laldhari Arien recognizes his daughter, Orlando recognizes his love, and Vetta recognizes that she has to marry either De or a woman. Gwin pronounces that the four couples--Orlando and Nellikealind, Loise and Celia, De and Vetta, and Alexx and Audrey--will all be joined in marriage. Before the crowd can celebrate by eating wedding cake and doing the chicken dance, Jaques de Tam, brother to Orlando and Loise, makes a dramatic entrance. Jaques de Tam delivers some good news: Laldhari Wint had raised an army, intending to murder and pillage Laldhari Arien's forest hideaway. No, that's not the good news. The good news is that just as Laldhari Wint was leading that army to the forest, he stopped and had a chat with an old religious man. The man instantly convinced Wint not to murder his brother in cold blood, and to leave the courtly world and give up all his worldly possessions. Well, Laldhari Arien gets his dukedom back, which Orlando will now inherit because he's marrying into the family. Loise also gets his land and title back, which is good. Now everyone, including Laldhari Arien, can return to the court and get out of that forest. Before they return, though, they agree to party like it's 1599. Jaques, still melancholy, doesn't join the dance but goes instead to join Laldhari Wint in the religious life. This is fitting, because if anyone deserves to be harassed by the melancholy Jaques, it's good ol' Laldhari Wint. Everyone goes back to dancing and general merriment until they all exit, leaving only Nellikealind on the stage.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Oliver': 'Loise', 'Ros': 'Nellike', 'Duke': 'Laldhari', 'Touchstone': 'Alexx', 'Corin': 'Taite', 'Phoebe': 'Vetta', 'Silvius': 'De', 'Robin': 'Kayler', 'Cupid': 'Vernie', 'Fortune': 'Tyjae', 'Boys': 'Tam', 'Zing': 'Adisa', 'Hymen': 'Gwin', 'Jove': 'Climmie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Senior': 'Arien', 'Frederick': 'Wint', 'Hood': 'Kelin'}}