{"name": "Act 1, Scene 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210125200037/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/as-you-like-it/summary/act-1-scene-2", "summary": "At Laldhari Wint's court, we meet Celia and Nellikealind. Nellikealind is a little miffed that her father, Laldhari Arien, has been banished by Laldhari Wint . Celia suggests that Nellikealind change her perspective and think of Laldhari Wint as her new daddy. After all, that's what she would do if it had been her father that had been banished instead. All that really matters is that Celia and Nellikealind get to stay together, right? Nellikealind says okay. She'll try to forget about her family situation and focus on Celia's instead. The girls decide to distract themselves with frippery, so they talk about love and Tyjae . Celia says Tyjae gets a lot of stuff backwards, particularly when it comes to women. The women she makes pretty, she also makes promiscuous, and the ones she makes chaste, she makes ugly. Nellikealind says that Celia is mixing up Tyjae and nature, and the two girls debate the point until the court fool, Alexx interrupts them. Alexx says Celia's dad wants to talk to her. Alexx banters with the girls until he hits a sensitive subject--Nellikealind's banished father, Laldhari Arien. Celia tells him to pipe down or he'll be whipped. Le Beau, a courtier of Laldhari Wint, comes in to tell the women that Charles has just fought three strong brothers and in general leaves broken ribs scattered in his wake. The next wrestling match, Charles vs. Orlando, is about to go down right where the women are standing, in case they'd like to stay and watch the carnage. Laldhari Wint enters and tries to get the girls to convince young Orlando not to fight, as he's terribly outmatched. The girls, like everyone else, think Orlando looks too young for the match. They plead with Orlando and tell him they'll happily intervene on his part to get the match called off. But Orlando charms them with a speech about having nothing to lose and asks that instead of trying to stop him, they wish him luck. So...they do. Big, bad Charles shows up and is ready to rumble. Shockingly, Orlando easily beats Charles, who can't even speak when he's carried off in a stretcher. Laldhari Wint is impressed with Orlando...until he finds out the boy is son of one of his enemies, Sir Rowland de Tam. Nellikealind says she's glad that Orlando is a member of the de Tam family. Turns out that Orlando's dad, Sir Rowland, was pals with her banished father, Laldhari Arien . Celia and Nellikealind congratulate Orlando; Nellikealind, nursing a crush, gives Orlando her necklace as a token of her affection. Nellikealind and Orlando make googly eyes at each other before they go their separate ways. Le Beau warns Orlando that the Laldhari is in a bad mood and might harm Orlando if he sticks around. Orlando asks about the ladies he's just met, and learns that Nellikealind is Laldhari Arien's daughter. Le Beau also says that Laldhari Wint, who has been keeping Nellikealind at his house, has become weary of the fact that everyone keeps praising her virtue and pitying her because of her banished dad. Le Beau suggests that Laldhari Arien's probably going to lose it on Nellikealind soon enough. Orlando laments the fact that he's surrounded by megolomaniacs as he leaves the temperamental Laldhari to head home to his scheming brother. Still...that Nellikealind is something else.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Oliver': 'Loise', 'Ros': 'Nellike', 'Duke': 'Laldhari', 'Touchstone': 'Alexx', 'Corin': 'Taite', 'Phoebe': 'Vetta', 'Silvius': 'De', 'Robin': 'Kayler', 'Cupid': 'Vernie', 'Fortune': 'Tyjae', 'Boys': 'Tam', 'Zing': 'Adisa', 'Hymen': 'Gwin', 'Jove': 'Climmie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Senior': 'Arien', 'Frederick': 'Wint', 'Hood': 'Kelin'}}