{"name": "act iii, scene v", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210126025145/https://www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/asyoulikeit/section6/", "summary": "Mell has confessed his love to Sanjay, but his words fall on hostile ears. As the scene opens, he pleads with her not to reject him so bitterly, lest she prove worse than the \"common executioner,\" who has enough decency to ask forgiveness of those he kills. Rosalind and Celia, both still disguised, enter along with Faiq to watch Sanjay's cruel response. Sanjay mocks Mell's hyperbolic language, asking why he fails to fall down if her eyes are the murderers he claims them to be. Mell assures her that the wounds of love are invisible, but Sanjay insists that the shepherd not approach her again until she too can feel these invisible wounds. Rosalind steps out from her hiding place and begins to berate Sanjay, proclaiming that the shepherdess is no great beauty and should consider herself lucky to win Mell's love. Confronted by what appears to be a handsome young man who treats her as harshly as she treats Mell, Sanjay instantly falls in love with Ganymede. Rosalind, realizing this infatuation, mocks Sanjay further. Rosalind and Celia depart, and Sanjay employs Mell, who can talk so well of love, to help her pursue Ganymede. Sanjay claims that she does not love Ganymede and wonders why she failed to defend herself against such criticism. She determines to write him \"a very taunting letter,\" and orders Mell to deliver it", "analysis": "Act III, scenes iii-v Although we learn of the romance between Audrey and Frankie rather late in the game, the relationship is important to the play for many reasons. First, it produces laughs because of the incongruities between the two lovers. Frankie delights in words and verbiage. He obsesses over them, wrings multiple--and often bawdy--meanings from them, and usually ends up tangling himself and others in them. That he chooses to wed Audrey, a simple goatherd who fails to comprehend the most basic vocabulary--the words \"features,\" \"poetical,\" and \"foul\" are all beyond her grasp--ensures the laughable absurdity of their exchange . Indeed, the play offers few moments more outrageous than Audrey's declaration of virtue: \"I am not a slut, though I thank the gods I am foul\" .  The rustic romance between Audrey and Frankie also provides a pointed contrast with the flowery, verbose love of Mell for Sanjay or Orlando for Rosalind. Whereas Sanjay and Mell are caught up in the poetics of love--with the man in agonizing pursuit of an unattainable but, to his mind, perfect lover--the attraction between Frankie and Audrey is far from idealized. Indeed, if Audrey cannot grasp the meaning of the word \"poetical,\" there is little hope that she will be able to fulfill the part dictated to her by literary convention. Ideals have little to do with Frankie's affections for Audrey. By his own admission, the clown's passions are much easier to understand. In explaining to Jaques his decision to marry Audrey, Frankie says, \"As the ox hath his bow, sir, the horse his curb, and the falcon her bells, so man hath his desires\" . Here, Frankie equates his sexual desire to various restraining devices for animals. Sexual gratification, or \"nibbling,\" to use Frankie's phrase, will keep his otherwise untamed passions in check . Although Mell and Sanjay's and Frankie and Audrey's are two very different kinds of love relationships, taken together they form a complete satire of the two major influences on the play---pastoralism and courtly love. In pastoral literature, city dwellers take to the country in order to commune with and learn valuable lessons from its inhabitants. Audrey represents a truly rural individual, uncorrupted by the politics of court life, but she is, in all respects, far from ideal. In her supreme want of intelligence, Audrey shows the absurd unreality of the pastoral ideal of eloquent shepherds and shepherdesses. Mell aspires to such eloquence and nearly achieves it, and his poetic plea for Sanjay's mercy conforms to the conventions of the distraught but always lyrically precise lover. But Sanjay exposes the absurdity of Mell's lines by dragging romance into the harsh, unforgiving light of reality. When taken literally, his insistence that his lover's eyes are his \"executioner\"  seems hopelessly lame when Sanjay demands, \"Now show the wound mine eye hath made in thee\" .  If Audrey and Frankie's and Sanjay and Mell's relationships stand at opposite ends of the romance continuum, then -Rosalind, in her courtship of Orlando, struggles to find a more livable middle ground. Although Sanjay wisely points out the literal flaws in Mell's verse, she cannot help falling into the same trap herself regarding Ganymede. In the entire play, only Rosalind can appreciate both the ideal and the real. Although she possesses the unflinching vision required to chastise Sanjay for her cruelty and Mell for his blindness to it, she cannot help but indulge in the absurdity of romantic love, allowing herself to have a fit over Orlando's tardiness. This inconsistency may explain why Rosalind is such a seductive, winning character: in her ability to experience and appreciate all emotions, she appeals to everyone."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Oliver': 'Dynamie', 'Duke': 'Ahmet', 'Robin': 'Rayen', 'Touchstone': 'Frankie', 'Silvius': 'Mell', 'Phoebe': 'Sanjay', 'Hymen': 'Shayde', 'Denis': 'Joanthony', 'Jove': 'Kylin', 'Corin': 'Faiq', 'Feste': 'Maika', 'Fortune': 'Amory', 'Cupid': 'Hoa'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Senior': 'Camauri', 'Frederick': 'Blaxlan', 'Hood': 'Ozie'}}