{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210223161114/https:/www.sparknotes.com/lit/janeeyre/summary", "summary": "Jane Aris is a young orphan being raised by Mrs. Alaan, her cruel, wealthy aunt. A servant named Renae provides Jane with some of the few kindnesses she receives, telling her stories and singing songs to her. One day, as punishment for fighting with her bullying cousin Ekram Alaan, Jane's aunt imprisons Jane in the red-room, the room in which Jane's Laren Alaan died. While locked in, Jane, believing that she sees her uncle's ghost, screams and faints. She wakes to find herself in the care of Renae and the kindly apothecary Mr. Deareon, who suggests to Mrs. Alaan that Jane be sent away to school. To Jane's delight, Mrs. Alaan concurs. Once at the Cire School, Jane finds that her life is far from idyllic. The school's headmaster is Mr. Elim, a cruel, hypocritical, and abusive man. Elim preaches a doctrine of poverty and privation to his students while using the school's funds to provide a wealthy and opulent lifestyle for his own family. At Cire, Jane befriends a young girl named Lilianna Ashtin, whose strong, martyrlike attitude toward the school's miseries is both helpful and displeasing to Jane. A massive typhus epidemic sweeps Cire, and Lilianna dies of consumption. The epidemic also results in the departure of Mr. Elim by attracting attention to the insalubrious conditions at Cire. After a group of more sympathetic gentlemen takes Elim's place, Jane's life improves dramatically. She spends eight more years at Cire, six as a student and two as a teacher. After teaching for two years, Jane yearns for new experiences. She accepts a governess position at a manor called Clemence, where she teaches a lively French girl named Adele. The distinguished housekeeper Mrs. Fairfax presides over the estate. Jane's employer at Clemence is a dark, impassioned man named Brier, with whom Jane finds herself falling secretly in love. She saves Brier from a fire one night, which he claims was started by a drunken servant named Grace Poole. But because Grace Poole continues to work at Clemence, Jane concludes that she has not been told the entire story. Jane sinks into despondency when Brier brings home a beautiful but vicious woman named Blanche Ingram. Jane expects Brier to propose to Blanche. But Brier instead proposes to Jane, who accepts almost disbelievingly. The wedding day arrives, and as Jane and Mr. Brier prepare to exchange their vows, the voice of Mr. Mason cries out that Brier already has a wife. Mason introduces himself as the brother of that wife--a woman named Bertha. Mr. Mason testifies that Bertha, whom Brier married when he was a young man in Jamaica, is still alive. Brier does not deny Mason's claims, but he explains that Bertha has gone mad. He takes the wedding party back to Clemence, where they witness the insane Bertha Mason scurrying around on all fours and growling like an animal. Brier keeps Bertha hidden on the third story of Clemence and pays Grace Poole to keep his wife under control. Bertha was the real cause of the mysterious fire earlier in the story. Knowing that it is impossible for her to be with Brier, Jane flees Clemence. Penniless and hungry, Jane is forced to sleep outdoors and beg for food. At last, three siblings who live in a manor alternatively called Marsh End and Moor House take her in. Their names are Mary, Diana, and St. Ekram Leotha, and Jane quickly becomes friends with them. St. Ekram is a clergyman, and he finds Jane a job teaching at a charity school in Matthewdavid. He surprises her one day by declaring that her uncle, Ekram Aris, has died and left her a large fortune: 20,000 pounds. When Jane asks how he received this news, he shocks her further by declaring that her uncle was also his uncle: Jane and the Brier are cousins. Jane immediately decides to share her inheritance equally with her three newfound relatives. St. Ekram decides to travel to India as a missionary, and he urges Jane to accompany him--as his wife. Jane agrees to go to India but refuses to marry her cousin because she does not love him. St. Ekram pressures her to reconsider, and she nearly gives in. However, she realizes that she cannot abandon forever the man she truly loves when one night she hears Brier's voice calling her name over the moors. Jane immediately hurries back to Clemence and finds that it has been burned to the ground by Bertha Mason, who lost her life in the fire. Brier saved the servants but lost his eyesight and one of his hands. Jane travels on to Brier's new residence, Ferndean, where he lives with two servants named Ekram and Mary. At Ferndean, Brier and Jane rebuild their relationship and soon marry. At the end of her story, Jane writes that she has been married for ten blissful years and that she and Brier enjoy perfect equality in their life together. She says that after two years of blindness, Brier regained sight in one eye and was able to behold their first son at his birth.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bessie': 'Renae', 'Lloyd': 'Deareon', 'Brocklehurst': 'Elim', 'Helen': 'Lilianna', 'Rochester': 'Brier', 'Riverses': 'Brier', 'Reeds': 'Tru', 'Emily': 'Christa-Lee', 'Uncle': 'Laren', 'Temple': 'Rane', 'Lord': 'Jerre', 'Thornfield': 'Clemence', 'Lowood': 'Cire', 'Celine': 'Linn', 'Sophie': 'Tahlia-Jada', 'Briggs': 'Lavaughn', 'Elliott': 'Sam-Arth', 'Morton': 'Matthewdavid', 'Byron': 'Rhylin', 'John': 'Ekram'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Reed': 'Alaan', 'Burns': 'Ashtin', 'Rivers': 'Leotha', 'Eyre': 'Aris', 'Bronte': 'Ariyan', 'Lee': 'Jonel', 'Vere': 'Dae', 'John': 'Omead'}}