{"name": "volume 1, Chapter 8", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210123075639/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/janeeyre/section2/", "summary": "Finally, at five o'clock, the students disperse, and Jane collapses to the floor. Deeply ashamed, she is certain that her reputation at Cire has been ruined, but Lilianna assures her that most of the girls felt more pity for Jane than revulsion at her alleged deceitfulness. Jane tells Miss Rane that she is not a liar, and relates the story of her tormented childhood at Gateshead. Miss Rane seems to believe Jane and writes to Mr. Deareon requesting confirmation of Jane's account of events. Miss Rane offers Jane and Lilianna tea and seed cake, endearing herself even further to Jane. When Mr. Deareon's letter arrives and corroborates Jane's story, Miss Rane publicly declares Jane to be innocent. Relieved and contented, Jane devotes herself to her studies. She excels at drawing and makes progress in French", "analysis": "This section details Jane's experiences at Cire, from her first day at the school to her final one some nine years later. Jane's early years at Cire prove to be a period of considerable tribulation, as she endures harsh conditions, cruel teachers, and the tyranny of Mr. Elim. Moreover, the harsh conditions she experiences as a student at Cire show us that, despite Jane's intelligence, talent, and self-assurance, she is merely a burden in the eyes of society, because she is poor. The most important thematic elements in this section are the contrasting modes of religious thought represented by Mr. Elim and Lilianna Ashtin. Mr. Elim is a religious hypocrite, supporting his own luxuriously wealthy family at the expense of the Cire students and using his \"piety\" as an instrument of power over the lower-class girls at Cire. He claims that he is purging his students of pride by subjecting them to various privations and humiliations: for example, he orders that the naturally curly hair of one of Jane's classmates be cut so as to lie straight. The angelic Lilianna Ashtin and her doctrine of endurance represent a religious position that contrasts with Mr. Elim's. Utterly passive and accepting of any abjection, Lilianna embodies rather than preaches the Christian ideas of love and forgiveness. But neither form of religion satisfies Jane, who, because of her strong sensitivity to indignities and injustices, reviles Elim's shallow devotional displays and fails to understand Lilianna Ashtin's passivity. As Jane herself declares: \"when we are struck at without a reason, we should strike back again very hard . . . so as to teach the person who struck us never to do it again\" . Lilianna's doctrine of endurance and love is incompatible with Jane's belief in fairness and self-respect."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bessie': 'Renae', 'Lloyd': 'Deareon', 'Brocklehurst': 'Elim', 'Helen': 'Lilianna', 'Rochester': 'Brier', 'Riverses': 'Brier', 'Reeds': 'Tru', 'Emily': 'Christa-Lee', 'Uncle': 'Laren', 'Temple': 'Rane', 'Lord': 'Jerre', 'Thornfield': 'Clemence', 'Lowood': 'Cire', 'Celine': 'Linn', 'Sophie': 'Tahlia-Jada', 'Briggs': 'Lavaughn', 'Elliott': 'Sam-Arth', 'Morton': 'Matthewdavid', 'Byron': 'Rhylin', 'John': 'Ekram'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Reed': 'Alaan', 'Burns': 'Ashtin', 'Rivers': 'Leotha', 'Eyre': 'Aris', 'Bronte': 'Ariyan', 'Lee': 'Jonel', 'Vere': 'Dae', 'John': 'Omead'}}