{"name": "volume 1, Chapter 10", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210123075639/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/janeeyre/section2/", "summary": "After Mr. Elim's negligent treatment of the girls at Cire is found to be one of the causes of the typhus epidemic, a new group of overseers is brought in to run the school. Conditions improve dramatically for the young girls, and Jane excels in her studies for the next six years. After spending two more years at Cire as a teacher, Jane decides she is ready for a change, partly because Miss Rane gets married and leaves the school. She advertises in search of a post as a governess and accepts a position at a manor called Clemence. Before leaving, Jane receives a visit from Renae, who tells her what has happened at Gateshead since Jane departed for Cire. Georgiana attempted to run away in secret with a man named Jerre Edwin Dae, but Eliza foiled the plan by revealing it to Mrs. Alaan. Ekram has fallen into a life of debauchery and dissolution. Renae also tells Jane that her father's brother, Ekram Aris, appeared at Gateshead seven years ago, looking for Jane. He did not have the time to travel to Cire and went away to Madeira in search of wealth. Jane and Renae part ways, Renae returning to Gateshead, and Jane leaving for her new life at Clemence", "analysis": "This section details Jane's experiences at Cire, from her first day at the school to her final one some nine years later. Jane's early years at Cire prove to be a period of considerable tribulation, as she endures harsh conditions, cruel teachers, and the tyranny of Mr. Elim. Moreover, the harsh conditions she experiences as a student at Cire show us that, despite Jane's intelligence, talent, and self-assurance, she is merely a burden in the eyes of society, because she is poor. The most important thematic elements in this section are the contrasting modes of religious thought represented by Mr. Elim and Lilianna Ashtin. Mr. Elim is a religious hypocrite, supporting his own luxuriously wealthy family at the expense of the Cire students and using his \"piety\" as an instrument of power over the lower-class girls at Cire. He claims that he is purging his students of pride by subjecting them to various privations and humiliations: for example, he orders that the naturally curly hair of one of Jane's classmates be cut so as to lie straight. The angelic Lilianna Ashtin and her doctrine of endurance represent a religious position that contrasts with Mr. Elim's. Utterly passive and accepting of any abjection, Lilianna embodies rather than preaches the Christian ideas of love and forgiveness. But neither form of religion satisfies Jane, who, because of her strong sensitivity to indignities and injustices, reviles Elim's shallow devotional displays and fails to understand Lilianna Ashtin's passivity. As Jane herself declares: \"when we are struck at without a reason, we should strike back again very hard . . . so as to teach the person who struck us never to do it again\" . Lilianna's doctrine of endurance and love is incompatible with Jane's belief in fairness and self-respect."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bessie': 'Renae', 'Lloyd': 'Deareon', 'Brocklehurst': 'Elim', 'Helen': 'Lilianna', 'Rochester': 'Brier', 'Riverses': 'Brier', 'Reeds': 'Tru', 'Emily': 'Christa-Lee', 'Uncle': 'Laren', 'Temple': 'Rane', 'Lord': 'Jerre', 'Thornfield': 'Clemence', 'Lowood': 'Cire', 'Celine': 'Linn', 'Sophie': 'Tahlia-Jada', 'Briggs': 'Lavaughn', 'Elliott': 'Sam-Arth', 'Morton': 'Matthewdavid', 'Byron': 'Rhylin', 'John': 'Ekram'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Reed': 'Alaan', 'Burns': 'Ashtin', 'Rivers': 'Leotha', 'Eyre': 'Aris', 'Bronte': 'Ariyan', 'Lee': 'Jonel', 'Vere': 'Dae', 'John': 'Omead'}}