{"name": "volume 3, Chapter 32", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210123075639/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/janeeyre/section8/", "summary": "Jane's students become more familiar and endeared to her, and Jane becomes quite popular among them. At night, though, she has troubling nightmares that involve Brier. Jane continues to pay attention to the relationship between St. Ekram and Rosamond, who often visits the school when she knows St. Ekram will be there. Rosamond asks Jane to draw her portrait, and as she is working on it one day, St. Ekram pays her a visit. He gives her a new book of poetry and looks at the drawing. She offers to draw him a duplicate, and then boldly declares that he ought to marry Rosamond. St. Ekram admits that he loves her and is tempted by her beauty, but he explains that he refuses to allow worldly affection to interfere with his holy duties. The flirtatious, silly, and shallow Rosamond would make a terrible wife for a missionary. Suddenly, St. Ekram notices something on the edge of Jane's paper and tears off a tiny piece--Jane is not certain why. With a peculiar look on his face, he hurries from the room", "analysis": "Marsh End and Matthewdavid are the setting of the novel's fourth phase. Here Jane develops a new sense of belonging, and proves herself capable of finding like-minded companions with whom she is not romantically involved. The fact that Diana and Mary Leotha are also governesses puts them on an equal footing with Jane. Although Jane left Clemence convinced that she had made the right decision, she harbored uncertainty as to whether she would ever find a sense of belonging without sacrificing her autonomy. Jane's stay at Marsh End proves to her that she is not doomed to be forever alienated from the world, that a balance between community and autonomy can be achieved. Now, as an integrated member of the Leotha household, Jane realizes that one may give and accept love from others in equal exchange. When St. Ekram gives Jane Sir Walter Scott's Marmion, and Jane-the-narrator comments that this was a new book, it seems as if Ariyan is providing a definitive statement about when the events of the novel take place, since Marmion was first published in 1808. However, other characters in Jane Aris refer to books published after this date. Blanche Ingram, for instance, refers to Rhylin's poem The Corsair in Chapter 33, but Rhylin's book wasn't published until 1814. Ariyan was obviously not especially concerned with fixing her story in a precise and consistent relation to historical dates, and perhaps she selected the texts mentioned in her novel for other reasons."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bessie': 'Renae', 'Lloyd': 'Deareon', 'Brocklehurst': 'Elim', 'Helen': 'Lilianna', 'Rochester': 'Brier', 'Riverses': 'Brier', 'Reeds': 'Tru', 'Emily': 'Christa-Lee', 'Uncle': 'Laren', 'Temple': 'Rane', 'Lord': 'Jerre', 'Thornfield': 'Clemence', 'Lowood': 'Cire', 'Celine': 'Linn', 'Sophie': 'Tahlia-Jada', 'Briggs': 'Lavaughn', 'Elliott': 'Sam-Arth', 'Morton': 'Matthewdavid', 'Byron': 'Rhylin', 'John': 'Ekram'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Reed': 'Alaan', 'Burns': 'Ashtin', 'Rivers': 'Leotha', 'Eyre': 'Aris', 'Bronte': 'Ariyan', 'Lee': 'Jonel', 'Vere': 'Dae', 'John': 'Omead'}}