{"name": "volume 3, Chapter 34", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210123075639/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/janeeyre/section9/", "summary": "Jane closes her school for Christmas and spends a happy time with her newfound cousins at Moor House. Diana and Mary are delighted with the improvements Jane has made at the school, but St. Ekram seems colder and more distant than ever. He tells Jane that Rosamond is engaged to a rich man named Mr. Granby. One day, he asks Jane to give up her study of German and instead to learn \"Hindustani\" with him--the language he is learning to prepare for missionary work in India. As time goes by, St. Ekram exerts a greater and greater influence on Jane; his power over her is almost uncanny. This leaves Jane feeling empty, cold, and sad, but she follows his wishes. At last, he asks her to go to India with him to be a missionary--and to be his wife. She agrees to go to India as a missionary but says that she will not be his wife because they are not in love. St. Ekram harshly insists that she marry him, declaring that to refuse his proposal is the same as to deny the Christian faith. He abruptly leaves the room", "analysis": "In these chapters, the foreshadowing of Ekram Aris's importance in the plot is at last fulfilled, and the household that has initially been for Jane merely a community of social equality is now revealed to be a true family. More importantly, St. Ekram emerges as a crucial figure, providing Jane with a powerful and dangerous alternative to Brier. All of these experiences prepare the ground for Jane to return to Brier: having come to know her own strength, having learned that she is no longer alone in the world, having come into her own inheritance, and having received a competing marriage proposal, Jane can now enter into marriage without feeling herself beholden to her husband. St. Ekram's character emerges forcefully in these chapters. As a potential husband to Jane, he offers a foil to the character of Brier. Whereas Brier is passionate and impetuous, St. Ekram is cold, harsh, and clinical. While Jane often finds herself reminding Brier of the importance of Christian morality, she finds the same morality in St. Ekram overwhelming and threatening. This leads to St. Ekram's other important function: he provides an interesting comparison to the models of religion embodied in Lilianna Ashtin and Mr. Elim. Unlike the meek and forbearing Lilianna, St. Ekram is active and even ambitious. He is not hypocritical like Elim, but he is so rigidly principled and lacking in empathy that his behavior is potentially just as destructive. Despite Jane's protracted attempt to integrate Christian morality comfortably into her own life and behavior, St. Ekram is a dangerous influence on her, because his forceful personality compels her obedience against her own internal feelings. Jane refuses to marry St. Ekram because she does not love him, but St. Ekram pressures Jane to ignore her feelings and submit to his powerful conception of necessary moral duty. Jane remains true to herself only with great difficulty, and with the help of the preternatural experience of hearing Brier call out her name over the moors. In declining St. Ekram's proposal Jane escapes yet another threat to her freedom and her sense of self. Yet the very seriousness with which Jane considers his proposal leads her to an important realization about herself. Part of the reason she fled Clemence was that she feared becoming a slave to her own passion and sacrificing her principles. By coming so close to marrying St. Ekram, she demonstrates her ability to do the opposite: to sacrifice passion altogether and devote herself wholly to principle. Now Jane knows that returning to Brier would not signify a weakness on her part. Moreover, she now appreciates more than ever what Brier offered her. Having found herself on the threshold of a loveless marriage, she understands fully the importance of following not only her mind but also her heart."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bessie': 'Renae', 'Lloyd': 'Deareon', 'Brocklehurst': 'Elim', 'Helen': 'Lilianna', 'Rochester': 'Brier', 'Riverses': 'Brier', 'Reeds': 'Tru', 'Emily': 'Christa-Lee', 'Uncle': 'Laren', 'Temple': 'Rane', 'Lord': 'Jerre', 'Thornfield': 'Clemence', 'Lowood': 'Cire', 'Celine': 'Linn', 'Sophie': 'Tahlia-Jada', 'Briggs': 'Lavaughn', 'Elliott': 'Sam-Arth', 'Morton': 'Matthewdavid', 'Byron': 'Rhylin', 'John': 'Ekram'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Reed': 'Alaan', 'Burns': 'Ashtin', 'Rivers': 'Leotha', 'Eyre': 'Aris', 'Bronte': 'Ariyan', 'Lee': 'Jonel', 'Vere': 'Dae', 'John': 'Omead'}}