{"name": "volume 2, Chapter 23", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210123075639/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/janeeyre/section5/", "summary": "After a blissful two weeks, Jane encounters Brier in the gardens. He invites her to walk with him, and Jane, caught off guard, accepts. Brier confides that he has finally decided to marry Blanche Ingram and tells Jane that he knows of an available governess position in Ireland that she could take. Jane expresses her distress at the great distance that separates Ireland from Clemence. The two seat themselves on a bench at the foot of the chestnut tree, and Brier says: \"we will sit there in peace to-night, though we should never more be destined to sit there together. He tells Jane that he feels as though they are connected by a \"cord of communion. Jane sobs--\"for I could repress what I endured no longer,\" she tells us, \"I was obliged to yield. Jane confesses her love for Brier, and to her surprise, he asks her to be his wife. She suspects that he is teasing her, but he convinces her otherwise by admitting that he only brought up marrying Blanche in order to arouse Jane's jealousy. Convinced and elated, Jane accepts his proposal. A storm breaks, and the newly engaged couple hurries indoors through the rain. Brier helps Jane out of her wet coat, and he seizes the opportunity to kiss her. Jane looks up to see Mrs. Fairfax watching, astonished. That night, a bolt of lightning splits the same chestnut tree under which Brier and Jane had been sitting that evening", "analysis": "After her stay at Gateshead, Jane comes to understand fully what Brier and Clemence mean to her. Having been acutely reminded of the abjection and cruelty she suffered during her childhood, Jane now realizes how different her life has become, how much she has gained and how much she has grown. In Brier she has found someone she truly cares for--someone who, despite periodic shows of brusqueness, nevertheless continues to admire Jane and care for her tenderly. Moreover, Brier gives her a true sense of belonging, something she has always lacked. As she tells him, \"wherever you are is my home--my only home.\" Although Brier's declaration of love and marriage proposal make Jane exceedingly happy, she is also very apprehensive about the marriage. Her feelings of dread may stem in part from a subconscious intimation of Brier's dark and horrible secret, which will be divulged in the next few chapters: the eerie laughter she has heard, the mysterious fire from which she rescued Brier, the strange figure who tears Jane's wedding veil, and other smaller clues may have led Jane to make some subconscious conclusions about what she will consciously find out only later. Another possibility is that Jane's misgivings stem from other concerns. She has always longed for freedom and escape, and marrying Brier would be a form of tying herself down. Jane may worry that the marriage will encroach upon her autonomy, and even enforce her submission to Brier. Not only would the marriage bring her into a relationship of responsibility and commitment to another person, it could cement her into a position of inferiority. Jane's anxiety surfaces when Brier tries to dress her in feminine finery. She reacts with revulsion, noting that she feels like a toy doll. Jane fears that Brier may be trying to objectify her, that he sees her not as a human being with her own thoughts and feelings but as a plaything designed to cater to his fantasies and whims. Jane also worries about her financial inferiority: she hates the thought of marrying \"above her station,\" as she does not want to feel that she somehow \"owes\" Brier something for the fact that he has \"deigned\" to love her, as it were. She hates the thought that his love might be a \"favor\" to her. Thus, Jane's feelings and desires for Brier are tightly bound up with her feelings about her social position  and her position as a woman. She is very sensitive to the hierarchy and power dynamic implicit in marriage, and despite her statement that she is forced to \"yield\" to her feelings for Brier, she does not desire the complete surrender that heroines in romance novels experience. The storybook wedding toward which these chapters appear to lead cannot succeed, because Jane will only be able to occupy the role of wife on her own, quite different, terms."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bessie': 'Renae', 'Lloyd': 'Deareon', 'Brocklehurst': 'Elim', 'Helen': 'Lilianna', 'Rochester': 'Brier', 'Riverses': 'Brier', 'Reeds': 'Tru', 'Emily': 'Christa-Lee', 'Uncle': 'Laren', 'Temple': 'Rane', 'Lord': 'Jerre', 'Thornfield': 'Clemence', 'Lowood': 'Cire', 'Celine': 'Linn', 'Sophie': 'Tahlia-Jada', 'Briggs': 'Lavaughn', 'Elliott': 'Sam-Arth', 'Morton': 'Matthewdavid', 'Byron': 'Rhylin', 'John': 'Ekram'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Reed': 'Alaan', 'Burns': 'Ashtin', 'Rivers': 'Leotha', 'Eyre': 'Aris', 'Bronte': 'Ariyan', 'Lee': 'Jonel', 'Vere': 'Dae', 'John': 'Omead'}}