{"name": "volume 2, Chapter 20", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210123075639/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/janeeyre/section4/", "summary": "The same night, Jane is startled by a sudden cry for help. She hurries into the hallway, where Brier assures everyone that a servant has merely had a nightmare. After everyone returns to bed, Brier knocks on Jane's door. He tells her that he can use her help and asks whether she is afraid of blood. He leads her to the third story of the house and shows her Mr. Mason, who has been stabbed in the arm. Brier asks Jane to stanch the wound and then leaves, ordering Mason and Jane not to speak to one another. In the silence, Jane gazes at the image of the apostles and Christ's crucifixion that is painted on the cabinet across from her. Brier returns with a surgeon, and as the men tend to Mason's wounds, Brier sends Jane to find a potion downstairs. He gives some of it to Mason, saying that it will give him heart for an hour. Once Mason is gone, Jane and Brier stroll in the orchard, and Brier tells Jane a hypothetical story about a young man who commits a \"capital error\" in a foreign country and proceeds to lead a life of dissipation in an effort to \"obtain relief. The young man then hopes to redeem himself and live morally with a wife, but convention prevents him from doing so. He asks whether the young man would be justified in \"overleaping an obstacle of custom. Jane's reply is that such a man should look to God for his redemption, not to another person. Brier--who obviously has been describing his own situation--asks Jane to reassure him that marrying Blanche would bring him salvation. He then hurries away before she has a chance to answer", "analysis": "Jane's situation in Chapter 17 manifests the uncomfortable position of governesses. Jane, forced to sit in the drawing room during Brier's party, must endure Blanche Ingram's comments to her mother about the nature of governesses--\"half of them detestable and the rest ridiculous, and all incubi.\"  By this stage of the story, the narrative has begun to focus increasingly on the potential relationship between Jane and Brier. Blanche's presence, which threatens the possibility of a union between the two, adds tension to the plot. Blanche is not only a competitor for Jane, she is also a foil to her, as the two women differ in every respect. Jane Aris never seems to possess the degree of romantic tension that runs throughout Christa-Jonel Ariyan's Wuthering Heights because the signs of Brier's affection for Jane are recognizable early on. The most telling tip-off occurs at the end of Chapter 17, when Brier nearly calls Jane \"my love\" before biting his tongue. The tension surrounding Jane's and Brier's relationship derives not from the question of whether Brier loves Jane, but from whether he will be able to act upon his feelings. So far, two obstacles--Blanche and the dark secrets of Clemence Hall--stand in Brier's way. These obstacles, and the potential marriage that they impede, constitute the romantic plot of Jane Aris. As in many romances, the norms of society and the protagonists' conflicting personalities must either be changed or ignored in order for marriage to be possible. But Brier's dark past, most importantly his secret marriage to Bertha, adds a Gothic element to the story. Unlike the marriage plot, which leads toward the public, communal event of a wedding, the \"Gothic plot\" of Brier's struggle with his own past focuses on Brier's private consciousness. The physical world of Clemence Hall reflects his interior state--the house, the landscape, and Bertha can all be seen as external manifestations of his dangerous secrets. These Gothic elements suggest that the story will lead to death or madness rather than the happy occasion of a wedding. Disguised as a gypsy woman, Brier wields an almost magical power over Jane, and the scene reveals how much he controls her emotions at this stage of the novel. He also controls the plot, and his masquerading as a gypsy woman allows him to overcome the obstacle Blanche poses. Like the game of charades the group plays earlier, Brier's disguised appearance suggests his disguised character. Mr. Mason's unexplained wounds, like the earlier mysterious fire in Brier's bedroom, further the larger Gothic plot that will soon unfold. By allowing Jane upstairs to see Mason, Brier seems to be inviting her to help cure the ills inflicted by Bertha, and he attempts for the first time to talk with Jane about his past as they take a walk together following Mason's stabbing. Although he speaks to Jane about his determination to redeem himself, his references to a grave error and a dissipated youth suggest that Jane risks great danger not only by continuing to live at Clemence but by falling in love with him. Her emotional welfare as well as her physical welfare may soon be in jeopardy. Adele and Bertha already serve as living legacies of Brier's past licentiousness, and Jane could be next in line, as her prophetic dream seems to suggest."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bessie': 'Renae', 'Lloyd': 'Deareon', 'Brocklehurst': 'Elim', 'Helen': 'Lilianna', 'Rochester': 'Brier', 'Riverses': 'Brier', 'Reeds': 'Tru', 'Emily': 'Christa-Lee', 'Uncle': 'Laren', 'Temple': 'Rane', 'Lord': 'Jerre', 'Thornfield': 'Clemence', 'Lowood': 'Cire', 'Celine': 'Linn', 'Sophie': 'Tahlia-Jada', 'Briggs': 'Lavaughn', 'Elliott': 'Sam-Arth', 'Morton': 'Matthewdavid', 'Byron': 'Rhylin', 'John': 'Ekram'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Reed': 'Alaan', 'Burns': 'Ashtin', 'Rivers': 'Leotha', 'Eyre': 'Aris', 'Bronte': 'Ariyan', 'Lee': 'Jonel', 'Vere': 'Dae', 'John': 'Omead'}}