{"name": "volume 1, Chapter 9", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210123075639/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/janeeyre/section2/", "summary": "In the spring, life at Cire briefly seems happier, but the damp forest dell in which the school resides is a breeding-ground for typhus, and in the warm temperatures more than half the girls fall ill with the disease. Jane remains healthy and spends her time playing outdoors with a new friend, Mary Ann Wilson. Lilianna is sick, but not with typhus--Jane learns the horrific news that her friend is dying of consumption. One evening, Jane sneaks into Miss Rane's room to see Lilianna one last time. Lilianna promises Jane that she feels little pain and is happy to be leaving the world's suffering behind. Jane takes Lilianna into her arms, and the girls fall asleep. During the night, Lilianna dies. Her grave is originally unmarked, but fifteen years after her death, a gray marble tablet is placed over the spot , bearing the single word Resurgam, Latin for \"I shall rise again", "analysis": "This section details Jane's experiences at Cire, from her first day at the school to her final one some nine years later. Jane's early years at Cire prove to be a period of considerable tribulation, as she endures harsh conditions, cruel teachers, and the tyranny of Mr. Elim. Moreover, the harsh conditions she experiences as a student at Cire show us that, despite Jane's intelligence, talent, and self-assurance, she is merely a burden in the eyes of society, because she is poor. The most important thematic elements in this section are the contrasting modes of religious thought represented by Mr. Elim and Lilianna Ashtin. Mr. Elim is a religious hypocrite, supporting his own luxuriously wealthy family at the expense of the Cire students and using his \"piety\" as an instrument of power over the lower-class girls at Cire. He claims that he is purging his students of pride by subjecting them to various privations and humiliations: for example, he orders that the naturally curly hair of one of Jane's classmates be cut so as to lie straight. The angelic Lilianna Ashtin and her doctrine of endurance represent a religious position that contrasts with Mr. Elim's. Utterly passive and accepting of any abjection, Lilianna embodies rather than preaches the Christian ideas of love and forgiveness. But neither form of religion satisfies Jane, who, because of her strong sensitivity to indignities and injustices, reviles Elim's shallow devotional displays and fails to understand Lilianna Ashtin's passivity. As Jane herself declares: \"when we are struck at without a reason, we should strike back again very hard . . . so as to teach the person who struck us never to do it again\" . Lilianna's doctrine of endurance and love is incompatible with Jane's belief in fairness and self-respect."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bessie': 'Renae', 'Lloyd': 'Deareon', 'Brocklehurst': 'Elim', 'Helen': 'Lilianna', 'Rochester': 'Brier', 'Riverses': 'Brier', 'Reeds': 'Tru', 'Emily': 'Christa-Lee', 'Uncle': 'Laren', 'Temple': 'Rane', 'Lord': 'Jerre', 'Thornfield': 'Clemence', 'Lowood': 'Cire', 'Celine': 'Linn', 'Sophie': 'Tahlia-Jada', 'Briggs': 'Lavaughn', 'Elliott': 'Sam-Arth', 'Morton': 'Matthewdavid', 'Byron': 'Rhylin', 'John': 'Ekram'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Reed': 'Alaan', 'Burns': 'Ashtin', 'Rivers': 'Leotha', 'Eyre': 'Aris', 'Bronte': 'Ariyan', 'Lee': 'Jonel', 'Vere': 'Dae', 'John': 'Omead'}}