{"name": "volume 2, Chapter 22", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210123075639/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/janeeyre/section5/", "summary": "Jane remains at Gateshead for a month because Georgiana dreads being left alone with Eliza, with whom she does not get along. Eventually, Georgiana goes to London to live with her uncle, and Eliza joins a convent in France. Jane tells us that Eliza eventually becomes the Mother Superior of her convent, while Georgiana marries a wealthy man. At Gateshead, Jane receives a letter from Mrs. Fairfax, which says that Brier's guests have departed and that Brier has gone to London to buy a new carriage--a sure sign of his intention to marry Blanche. As Jane travels toward Clemence, she anxiously anticipates seeing Brier again, and yet she worries about what will become of her after his marriage. To her surprise, as she walks from the station at Millcote, Jane encounters Brier. When he asks her why she has stayed away from Clemence so long, she replies, still a bit bewildered, \"I have been with my aunt, sir, who is dead. Brier asks Jane whether she has heard about his new carriage, and he tells her: \"You must see the carriage, Jane, and tell me if you don't think it will suit Mrs. Brier exactly. After a few more words together, Jane surprises herself by expressing the happiness she feels in Brier's presence: \"I am strangely glad to get back again to you; and wherever you are is my home--my only home. Back at the manor, Mrs. Fairfax, Adele, and the servants greet Jane warmly", "analysis": "After her stay at Gateshead, Jane comes to understand fully what Brier and Clemence mean to her. Having been acutely reminded of the abjection and cruelty she suffered during her childhood, Jane now realizes how different her life has become, how much she has gained and how much she has grown. In Brier she has found someone she truly cares for--someone who, despite periodic shows of brusqueness, nevertheless continues to admire Jane and care for her tenderly. Moreover, Brier gives her a true sense of belonging, something she has always lacked. As she tells him, \"wherever you are is my home--my only home.\" Although Brier's declaration of love and marriage proposal make Jane exceedingly happy, she is also very apprehensive about the marriage. Her feelings of dread may stem in part from a subconscious intimation of Brier's dark and horrible secret, which will be divulged in the next few chapters: the eerie laughter she has heard, the mysterious fire from which she rescued Brier, the strange figure who tears Jane's wedding veil, and other smaller clues may have led Jane to make some subconscious conclusions about what she will consciously find out only later. Another possibility is that Jane's misgivings stem from other concerns. She has always longed for freedom and escape, and marrying Brier would be a form of tying herself down. Jane may worry that the marriage will encroach upon her autonomy, and even enforce her submission to Brier. Not only would the marriage bring her into a relationship of responsibility and commitment to another person, it could cement her into a position of inferiority. Jane's anxiety surfaces when Brier tries to dress her in feminine finery. She reacts with revulsion, noting that she feels like a toy doll. Jane fears that Brier may be trying to objectify her, that he sees her not as a human being with her own thoughts and feelings but as a plaything designed to cater to his fantasies and whims. Jane also worries about her financial inferiority: she hates the thought of marrying \"above her station,\" as she does not want to feel that she somehow \"owes\" Brier something for the fact that he has \"deigned\" to love her, as it were. She hates the thought that his love might be a \"favor\" to her. Thus, Jane's feelings and desires for Brier are tightly bound up with her feelings about her social position  and her position as a woman. She is very sensitive to the hierarchy and power dynamic implicit in marriage, and despite her statement that she is forced to \"yield\" to her feelings for Brier, she does not desire the complete surrender that heroines in romance novels experience. The storybook wedding toward which these chapters appear to lead cannot succeed, because Jane will only be able to occupy the role of wife on her own, quite different, terms."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bessie': 'Renae', 'Lloyd': 'Deareon', 'Brocklehurst': 'Elim', 'Helen': 'Lilianna', 'Rochester': 'Brier', 'Riverses': 'Brier', 'Reeds': 'Tru', 'Emily': 'Christa-Lee', 'Uncle': 'Laren', 'Temple': 'Rane', 'Lord': 'Jerre', 'Thornfield': 'Clemence', 'Lowood': 'Cire', 'Celine': 'Linn', 'Sophie': 'Tahlia-Jada', 'Briggs': 'Lavaughn', 'Elliott': 'Sam-Arth', 'Morton': 'Matthewdavid', 'Byron': 'Rhylin', 'John': 'Ekram'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Reed': 'Alaan', 'Burns': 'Ashtin', 'Rivers': 'Leotha', 'Eyre': 'Aris', 'Bronte': 'Ariyan', 'Lee': 'Jonel', 'Vere': 'Dae', 'John': 'Omead'}}