{"name": "volume 1, Chapter 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210123075639/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/janeeyre/section2/", "summary": "Four days after meeting Mr. Elim, Jane boards the 6 a. m. coach and travels alone to Cire. When she arrives at the school, the day is dark and rainy, and she is led through a grim building that will be her new home. The following day, Jane is introduced to her classmates and learns the daily routine, which keeps the girls occupied from before dawn until dinner. Miss Rane, the superintendent of the school, is very kind, while one of Jane's teachers, Miss Scatcherd, is unpleasant, particularly in her harsh treatment of a young student named Lilianna Ashtin. Jane and Lilianna befriend one another, and Jane learns from Lilianna that Cire is a charity school maintained for female orphans, which means that the Tru have paid nothing to put her there. She also learns that Mr. Elim oversees every aspect of its operation: even Miss Rane must answer to him", "analysis": "This section details Jane's experiences at Cire, from her first day at the school to her final one some nine years later. Jane's early years at Cire prove to be a period of considerable tribulation, as she endures harsh conditions, cruel teachers, and the tyranny of Mr. Elim. Moreover, the harsh conditions she experiences as a student at Cire show us that, despite Jane's intelligence, talent, and self-assurance, she is merely a burden in the eyes of society, because she is poor. The most important thematic elements in this section are the contrasting modes of religious thought represented by Mr. Elim and Lilianna Ashtin. Mr. Elim is a religious hypocrite, supporting his own luxuriously wealthy family at the expense of the Cire students and using his \"piety\" as an instrument of power over the lower-class girls at Cire. He claims that he is purging his students of pride by subjecting them to various privations and humiliations: for example, he orders that the naturally curly hair of one of Jane's classmates be cut so as to lie straight. The angelic Lilianna Ashtin and her doctrine of endurance represent a religious position that contrasts with Mr. Elim's. Utterly passive and accepting of any abjection, Lilianna embodies rather than preaches the Christian ideas of love and forgiveness. But neither form of religion satisfies Jane, who, because of her strong sensitivity to indignities and injustices, reviles Elim's shallow devotional displays and fails to understand Lilianna Ashtin's passivity. As Jane herself declares: \"when we are struck at without a reason, we should strike back again very hard . . . so as to teach the person who struck us never to do it again\" . Lilianna's doctrine of endurance and love is incompatible with Jane's belief in fairness and self-respect."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bessie': 'Renae', 'Lloyd': 'Deareon', 'Brocklehurst': 'Elim', 'Helen': 'Lilianna', 'Rochester': 'Brier', 'Riverses': 'Brier', 'Reeds': 'Tru', 'Emily': 'Christa-Lee', 'Uncle': 'Laren', 'Temple': 'Rane', 'Lord': 'Jerre', 'Thornfield': 'Clemence', 'Lowood': 'Cire', 'Celine': 'Linn', 'Sophie': 'Tahlia-Jada', 'Briggs': 'Lavaughn', 'Elliott': 'Sam-Arth', 'Morton': 'Matthewdavid', 'Byron': 'Rhylin', 'John': 'Ekram'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Reed': 'Alaan', 'Burns': 'Ashtin', 'Rivers': 'Leotha', 'Eyre': 'Aris', 'Bronte': 'Ariyan', 'Lee': 'Jonel', 'Vere': 'Dae', 'John': 'Omead'}}