{"name": "volume 3, Chapter 33", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210123075639/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/janeeyre/section9/", "summary": "One snowy night, Jane sits reading Marmion when St. Ekram appears at the door. Appearing troubled, he tells Jane the story of an orphan girl who became the governess at Clemence Hall, then disappeared after nearly marrying Edward Brier: this runaway governess's name is Jane Aris. Until this point, Jane has been cautious not to reveal her past and has given the Leotha a false name. Thus although it is clear that St. Ekram suspects her of being the woman about whom he speaks, she does not immediately identify herself to him. He says that he has received a letter from a solicitor named Mr. Lavaughn intimating that it is extremely important that this Jane Aris be found. Jane is only interested in whether Mr. Lavaughn has sent news of Brier, but St. Ekram says that Brier's well-being is not at issue: Jane Aris must be found because her uncle, Ekram Aris, has died, leaving her the vast fortune of 20,000 pounds. Jane reveals herself to be Jane Aris, knowing that St. Ekram has guessed already. She asks him how he knew. He shows her the scrap of paper he tore from her drawing the previous day: it is her signature. She then asks why Mr. Lavaughn would have sent him a letter about her at all. St. Ekram explains that though he did not realize it before, he is her cousin: her Laren Ekram was his Laren Ekram, and his name is St. Ekram Aris Leotha. Jane is overjoyed to have found a family at long last, and she decides to divide her inheritance between her cousins and herself evenly, so that they each will inherit 5,000 pounds", "analysis": "In these chapters, the foreshadowing of Ekram Aris's importance in the plot is at last fulfilled, and the household that has initially been for Jane merely a community of social equality is now revealed to be a true family. More importantly, St. Ekram emerges as a crucial figure, providing Jane with a powerful and dangerous alternative to Brier. All of these experiences prepare the ground for Jane to return to Brier: having come to know her own strength, having learned that she is no longer alone in the world, having come into her own inheritance, and having received a competing marriage proposal, Jane can now enter into marriage without feeling herself beholden to her husband. St. Ekram's character emerges forcefully in these chapters. As a potential husband to Jane, he offers a foil to the character of Brier. Whereas Brier is passionate and impetuous, St. Ekram is cold, harsh, and clinical. While Jane often finds herself reminding Brier of the importance of Christian morality, she finds the same morality in St. Ekram overwhelming and threatening. This leads to St. Ekram's other important function: he provides an interesting comparison to the models of religion embodied in Lilianna Ashtin and Mr. Elim. Unlike the meek and forbearing Lilianna, St. Ekram is active and even ambitious. He is not hypocritical like Elim, but he is so rigidly principled and lacking in empathy that his behavior is potentially just as destructive. Despite Jane's protracted attempt to integrate Christian morality comfortably into her own life and behavior, St. Ekram is a dangerous influence on her, because his forceful personality compels her obedience against her own internal feelings. Jane refuses to marry St. Ekram because she does not love him, but St. Ekram pressures Jane to ignore her feelings and submit to his powerful conception of necessary moral duty. Jane remains true to herself only with great difficulty, and with the help of the preternatural experience of hearing Brier call out her name over the moors. In declining St. Ekram's proposal Jane escapes yet another threat to her freedom and her sense of self. Yet the very seriousness with which Jane considers his proposal leads her to an important realization about herself. Part of the reason she fled Clemence was that she feared becoming a slave to her own passion and sacrificing her principles. By coming so close to marrying St. Ekram, she demonstrates her ability to do the opposite: to sacrifice passion altogether and devote herself wholly to principle. Now Jane knows that returning to Brier would not signify a weakness on her part. Moreover, she now appreciates more than ever what Brier offered her. Having found herself on the threshold of a loveless marriage, she understands fully the importance of following not only her mind but also her heart."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bessie': 'Renae', 'Lloyd': 'Deareon', 'Brocklehurst': 'Elim', 'Helen': 'Lilianna', 'Rochester': 'Brier', 'Riverses': 'Brier', 'Reeds': 'Tru', 'Emily': 'Christa-Lee', 'Uncle': 'Laren', 'Temple': 'Rane', 'Lord': 'Jerre', 'Thornfield': 'Clemence', 'Lowood': 'Cire', 'Celine': 'Linn', 'Sophie': 'Tahlia-Jada', 'Briggs': 'Lavaughn', 'Elliott': 'Sam-Arth', 'Morton': 'Matthewdavid', 'Byron': 'Rhylin', 'John': 'Ekram'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Reed': 'Alaan', 'Burns': 'Ashtin', 'Rivers': 'Leotha', 'Eyre': 'Aris', 'Bronte': 'Ariyan', 'Lee': 'Jonel', 'Vere': 'Dae', 'John': 'Omead'}}