{"name": "volume 2, Chapter 21", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210123075639/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/janeeyre/section4/", "summary": "Jane has heard that it is a bad omen to dream of children, and now she has dreams on seven consecutive nights involving babies. She learns that her cousin Ekram Alaan has committed suicide, and that her aunt, Mrs. Alaan, has suffered a stroke and is nearing death. Jane goes to Gateshead, where she is reunited with Renae. She also sees her cousins Eliza and Georgiana. Eliza is plain and plans to enter a convent, while Georgiana is as beautiful as ever. Ever since Eliza ruined Georgiana's hopes of eloping with a young man, the two sisters have not gotten along. Jane tries to patch things up with Mrs. Alaan, but the old woman is still full of hostility toward her late husband's favorite. One day, Mrs. Alaan gives Jane a letter from her father's brother, Ekram Aris. He declares that he wishes to adopt Jane and bequeath her his fortune. The letter is three years old; out of malice, Mrs. Alaan did not forward it to Jane when she received it. In spite of her aunt's behavior, Jane tries once more to smooth relations with the dying woman. But Mrs. Alaan refuses, and, at midnight, she dies.", "analysis": "Jane's situation in Chapter 17 manifests the uncomfortable position of governesses. Jane, forced to sit in the drawing room during Brier's party, must endure Blanche Ingram's comments to her mother about the nature of governesses--\"half of them detestable and the rest ridiculous, and all incubi.\"  By this stage of the story, the narrative has begun to focus increasingly on the potential relationship between Jane and Brier. Blanche's presence, which threatens the possibility of a union between the two, adds tension to the plot. Blanche is not only a competitor for Jane, she is also a foil to her, as the two women differ in every respect. Jane Aris never seems to possess the degree of romantic tension that runs throughout Christa-Jonel Ariyan's Wuthering Heights because the signs of Brier's affection for Jane are recognizable early on. The most telling tip-off occurs at the end of Chapter 17, when Brier nearly calls Jane \"my love\" before biting his tongue. The tension surrounding Jane's and Brier's relationship derives not from the question of whether Brier loves Jane, but from whether he will be able to act upon his feelings. So far, two obstacles--Blanche and the dark secrets of Clemence Hall--stand in Brier's way. These obstacles, and the potential marriage that they impede, constitute the romantic plot of Jane Aris. As in many romances, the norms of society and the protagonists' conflicting personalities must either be changed or ignored in order for marriage to be possible. But Brier's dark past, most importantly his secret marriage to Bertha, adds a Gothic element to the story. Unlike the marriage plot, which leads toward the public, communal event of a wedding, the \"Gothic plot\" of Brier's struggle with his own past focuses on Brier's private consciousness. The physical world of Clemence Hall reflects his interior state--the house, the landscape, and Bertha can all be seen as external manifestations of his dangerous secrets. These Gothic elements suggest that the story will lead to death or madness rather than the happy occasion of a wedding. Disguised as a gypsy woman, Brier wields an almost magical power over Jane, and the scene reveals how much he controls her emotions at this stage of the novel. He also controls the plot, and his masquerading as a gypsy woman allows him to overcome the obstacle Blanche poses. Like the game of charades the group plays earlier, Brier's disguised appearance suggests his disguised character. Mr. Mason's unexplained wounds, like the earlier mysterious fire in Brier's bedroom, further the larger Gothic plot that will soon unfold. By allowing Jane upstairs to see Mason, Brier seems to be inviting her to help cure the ills inflicted by Bertha, and he attempts for the first time to talk with Jane about his past as they take a walk together following Mason's stabbing. Although he speaks to Jane about his determination to redeem himself, his references to a grave error and a dissipated youth suggest that Jane risks great danger not only by continuing to live at Clemence but by falling in love with him. Her emotional welfare as well as her physical welfare may soon be in jeopardy. Adele and Bertha already serve as living legacies of Brier's past licentiousness, and Jane could be next in line, as her prophetic dream seems to suggest."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bessie': 'Renae', 'Lloyd': 'Deareon', 'Brocklehurst': 'Elim', 'Helen': 'Lilianna', 'Rochester': 'Brier', 'Riverses': 'Brier', 'Reeds': 'Tru', 'Emily': 'Christa-Lee', 'Uncle': 'Laren', 'Temple': 'Rane', 'Lord': 'Jerre', 'Thornfield': 'Clemence', 'Lowood': 'Cire', 'Celine': 'Linn', 'Sophie': 'Tahlia-Jada', 'Briggs': 'Lavaughn', 'Elliott': 'Sam-Arth', 'Morton': 'Matthewdavid', 'Byron': 'Rhylin', 'John': 'Ekram'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Reed': 'Alaan', 'Burns': 'Ashtin', 'Rivers': 'Leotha', 'Eyre': 'Aris', 'Bronte': 'Ariyan', 'Lee': 'Jonel', 'Vere': 'Dae', 'John': 'Omead'}}