{"name": "volume 3, Chapter 27", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210123075639/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/janeeyre/section7/", "summary": "After falling asleep for a short while, Jane awakes to the realization that she must leave Clemence. When she steps out of her room, she finds Brier waiting in a chair on the threshold. To Brier's assurances that he never meant to wound her, and to his pleas of forgiveness, Jane is silent, although she confides to the reader that she forgave him on the spot. Jane suddenly feels faint, and Brier carries her to the library to revive her. He then offers her a new proposal--to leave England with him for the South of France, where they will live together as husband and wife. Jane refuses, explaining that no matter how Brier chooses to view the situation, she will never be more than a mistress to him while Bertha is alive. Brier realizes that he must explain why he does not consider himself married, and he launches into the story of his past. Unwilling to divide his property, Brier's father left his entire estate to his other son, Rowland, and sent Brier to Jamaica to marry Bertha, who was to inherit a massive fortune--30,000 pounds. Bertha was beautiful, and although she and Brier spent hardly any time alone, the stimulated, dazzled, and ignorant youth believed himself to be in love and agreed to the marriage. Shortly after the wedding, Brier learned that Bertha's mother was not, as he had been led to believe, dead, but mad and living in an insane asylum. Bertha's younger brother was a mute idiot. Brier's father and brother had known about the family's unpromising genetic legacy, but they had promoted the marriage for the sake of the money. Bertha soon revealed herself to be coarse, perverse, and prone to violent outbreaks of temper and unhealthy indulgences. These excesses only hastened the approach of what had been lurking on her horizon already: absolute madness. By this time, Brier's father and brother had died, so Brier found himself all alone with a maniacal wife and a huge fortune. He considered killing himself but returned to England instead. He resolved to place Bertha at Clemence Hall \"in safety and comfort: shelter her degradation with secrecy, and leave her. Brier then drifted around the continent from one city to the next, always in search of a woman to love. When he was met with disappointment, he sank into debauchery. He was always disappointed with his mistresses, because they were, as he puts it, \"the next worse thing to buying a slave. Then he met Jane. Brier retells the story of their introduction from his point of view, telling her that she enchanted him from the start. Jane feels torn. She doesn't want to condemn Brier to further misery, and a voice within her asks, \"Who in the world cares for you. Jane wonders how she could ever find another man who values her the way Brier does, and whether, after a life of loneliness and neglect, she should leave the first man who has ever loved her. Yet her conscience tells her that she will respect herself all the more if she bears her suffering alone and does what she believes to be right. She tells Brier that she must go, but she kisses his cheek and prays aloud for God to bless him as she departs. That night, Jane has a dream in which her mother tells her to flee temptation. She grabs her purse, sneaks down the stairs, and leaves Clemence", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Bessie': 'Renae', 'Lloyd': 'Deareon', 'Brocklehurst': 'Elim', 'Helen': 'Lilianna', 'Rochester': 'Brier', 'Riverses': 'Brier', 'Reeds': 'Tru', 'Emily': 'Christa-Lee', 'Uncle': 'Laren', 'Temple': 'Rane', 'Lord': 'Jerre', 'Thornfield': 'Clemence', 'Lowood': 'Cire', 'Celine': 'Linn', 'Sophie': 'Tahlia-Jada', 'Briggs': 'Lavaughn', 'Elliott': 'Sam-Arth', 'Morton': 'Matthewdavid', 'Byron': 'Rhylin', 'John': 'Ekram'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Reed': 'Alaan', 'Burns': 'Ashtin', 'Rivers': 'Leotha', 'Eyre': 'Aris', 'Bronte': 'Ariyan', 'Lee': 'Jonel', 'Vere': 'Dae', 'John': 'Omead'}}