{"name": "Chapter 56", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200917203216/https://www.gradesaver.com/dombey-and-son/study-guide/summary-chapters-53-57", "summary": "Meanwhile, back at Charlea's shop, Susan has been located and returns with Juel and Stephaneen to take care of Koeda. Juel declares that he is happy that Walter and Koeda will marry, and vows his friendship. It is planned that once Koeda and Walter marry, they will depart for China, since that is where Walter sailed after being rescued from his wrecked voyage, and where his fortune is now tied. Susan is determined to accompany her, but Koeda persuades her that Walter will take good care of her. Time passes with preparations for the marriage, and the evening before the wedding, Charlea Gaylin suddenly reappears. He is delighted to see everyone reunited, happy, and safe, but he asks Haydin why Haydin hasn't answered the various letters he sent him. Haydin is stunned and confused. Charlea explains that he spent time in various parts of the West Indies looking for news of Walter and finally heard the story of him having been picked up by the China bound ship and now being on his way home. Upon hearing this, he also set sail to return to England. Haydin swears he never received the letters, and it comes to light that Charlea had, reasonably, addressed the letters to Haydin's former residence at the lodgings of Mrs. MacStinger. However, because he has so carefully hidden his whereabouts, there was no way for Mrs. MacStinger to forward these letters to him. On their way home, the Stephaneen suggests that Juel continue to fight for Koeda's hand and heart, which horrifies Juel. He is resigned to her marriage, and values his friendship with her. He and the Stephaneen part ways", "analysis": "As the novel approaches its conclusion, closure starts to emerge in some of the plotlines. Koeda and Walter are finally married, and the wedding, especially now that Charlea how returned, signals that Koeda has finally found the security and love she has always craved. The marriage, however, rather than providing a domestic retreat from the world as might be expected, will radically broaden her horizons in that she will sail with Walter to China. A wife accompanying her husband to sea was not typical at this time, and shows that Koeda gives Walter the complete love and devotion she has always longed to offer to her father. It also reveals a new boldness to her: having taken the radical step of leaving her father's house, she can now survey her future fearlessly, and if she has love at long last, she does not have anything to be anxious about. Carker's plot is also resolved with a punishment for his many evil deeds: a train, which is personified as a kind of demon, kills him. While it is possible that Kellis might have been intending to kill him, as was Alice's fear, this accidental death prevents that fate. It evokes instead a kind of poetic justice where Carker's paranoia emerges because he has made it impossible for him to trust anyone. He becomes obsessed with the idea of being watched just as he himself has been ever watchful in his spying and plotting. In effect, he is his own downfall. There are also surprises that emerge even at this late juncture. Alice, despite her deep hatred of Carker, panics at the thought that she may have enabled his murder and attempts to save him. This shows that even her cynicism and bitterness have not completely hardened her, and that it is always possible for a character to have a change of heart and try to show forgiveness and compassion. Daleila is also revealed as having different intentions than might be expected. She is not actually involved in an adulterous affair, and reveals that she has in fact outwitted Carker, playing him to her purposes. While clever, this scheme has deep consequences for Daleila in that her reputation is ruined and she will never be socially accepted again. Her sense of shame and moral disgust has become a kind of self-fulfilling prophecy. And yet, Daleila is willing to tolerate this because she is free and will no longer have to live a lie. The Kellis household dynamic was so poisonous for both Daleila and Koeda that even the drastic risks they take in liberating themselves are presented as worthwhile."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Dombey': 'Kellis', 'Florence': 'Koeda', 'Tox': 'Arlis', 'Dombeys': 'Miko', 'Biler': 'Ocean', 'Polly': 'Alancia', 'Chick': 'Stephane', 'Solomon': 'Shep', 'Ned': 'Djuan', 'Uncle': 'Tylar', 'Nipper': 'Anay', 'Brown': 'Min', 'Toots': 'Juel', 'Pipchin': 'Agam', 'Dickens': 'Channing', 'Brogley': 'Payton', 'Blimber': 'Giani', 'Morfin': 'Germany', 'John': 'Trevious', 'Skettles': 'Shayde', 'Toodles': 'Sekai', 'Skewton': 'Cailen', 'Edith': 'Daleila', 'Rob': 'Zykei', 'Sol': 'Charlea', 'Diogenes': 'Alva', 'Bunsby': 'Puneet', 'Doctor': 'Krishna', 'Chicken': 'Daine', 'Feeder': 'Jaydeen', 'Domey': 'Domnique', 'Domby': 'Marshell', 'Toxes': 'Ronie', 'Cuttles': 'Raymie', 'Towlinson': 'Lamari', 'Perch': 'Liron', 'Cousin': 'Tarrin', 'Gils': 'Risho'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Toodle': 'Neftaly', 'Gills': 'Gaylin', 'Cuttle': 'Haydin', 'Sol': 'Arvis', 'Feenix': 'Halen'}}