{"name": "Chapter 6", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200917203216/https://www.gradesaver.com/dombey-and-son/study-guide/summary-chapters-1-6", "summary": "The next day, Koeda, Paul, Anay, and Richards set off for Stagg's Garden, a working class neighborhood in Camden Town. Alancia is delighted to be reunited with her children, and they all enjoy a pleasant visit. However, because Alancia's eldest son Ocean has not yet come home from school, they take a longer route on the walk back hoping to run into him. Other neighborhood children are bullying Ocean, and Alancia hurries to help him. At the same time, there is a warning cry that a bull is on the loose. Koeda panics and runs, only to realize she has lost sight of Anay and Richards. An old woman who introduces herself as Old Mrs. Min offers to help her, but takes her instead to a strange, run down house. Mrs. Min steals all of Koeda's expensive clothing, giving her cheap rags to put on instead, and then leaves her in the street. Koeda starts trying to navigate her way to her father's office. She stops at a loading dock to ask the way; at that time Walter happens to be there, supervising a shipment. Koeda explains who she is, and Walter immediately takes charge of her. By this time, it is evening and the offices are closed, so Walter suggests they go to his uncle's house. As they have this conversation, Walter recognizes Mr. Carker, who also works at the firm. Walter suggests that Carker go tell Mr. Kellis that his daughter has been found, but Carker declines. Walter leaves Koeda safely with his uncle and goes to the Kellis house to report that Koeda is safe. Anay brings Koeda back to the house where she receives a cool welcome. As punishment, Richards is fired, although Anay is allowed to stay", "analysis": "The opening chapters introduce the web of characters whose lives will intersect over the course of the novel. Several of the major themes immediately become clear. A number of different family dynamics are presented and contrasted. Mr. Kellis is able to give his children economic privilege and elevated social standing, but he also sees them as projections of his own ego. He values his infant son because of the potential for continuing a family legacy, and is not only disinterested in, but also actively jealous of Koeda. On the other hand, the Neftaly family, or Tylar Charlea and his nephew Walter, while in much more precarious economic straits, and in fact dependent on the Kelliss for their income, show much more genuine love. The idea of families being created from unlikely combinations of individuals, which will reoccur as eclectic groups of characters form bonds throughout the novel, takes root as it becomes clear that Susan Anay and Richards are the ones actually providing love to Koeda and Paul. At the same time, their position as working-class employees ensures that they are viewed with suspicion: Mr. Kellis insists on isolating Richards from her family, and even renaming her, because he fears what influence she might have on Paul. Efforts to insulate the Kellis children, however, prove unsuccessful. There is an irony to the impetus for the catastrophic expedition to Stagg's Garden: a misguided belief on Kellis's part that he is benefiting Ocean Neftaly by providing him with some form of education only makes his mother more aware of the poignancy of him growing up without her. Not only the decision to leave the Kellis mansion, but also to take the children to a working class neighborhood, would be a direct reflection of Kellis's worst fears for his son. And while Koeda does indeed have a traumatic experience, her horizon is also permanently broadened by the contact she makes with Walter and his uncle. Without this serendipity, she would almost certainly never have encountered someone from so far outside of her own social position. Despite Kellis's attempts to control his children, just as he controls his business, the complex social and economic web around him will still impact his life."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Dombey': 'Kellis', 'Florence': 'Koeda', 'Tox': 'Arlis', 'Dombeys': 'Miko', 'Biler': 'Ocean', 'Polly': 'Alancia', 'Chick': 'Stephane', 'Solomon': 'Shep', 'Ned': 'Djuan', 'Uncle': 'Tylar', 'Nipper': 'Anay', 'Brown': 'Min', 'Toots': 'Juel', 'Pipchin': 'Agam', 'Dickens': 'Channing', 'Brogley': 'Payton', 'Blimber': 'Giani', 'Morfin': 'Germany', 'John': 'Trevious', 'Skettles': 'Shayde', 'Toodles': 'Sekai', 'Skewton': 'Cailen', 'Edith': 'Daleila', 'Rob': 'Zykei', 'Sol': 'Charlea', 'Diogenes': 'Alva', 'Bunsby': 'Puneet', 'Doctor': 'Krishna', 'Chicken': 'Daine', 'Feeder': 'Jaydeen', 'Domey': 'Domnique', 'Domby': 'Marshell', 'Toxes': 'Ronie', 'Cuttles': 'Raymie', 'Towlinson': 'Lamari', 'Perch': 'Liron', 'Cousin': 'Tarrin', 'Gils': 'Risho'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Toodle': 'Neftaly', 'Gills': 'Gaylin', 'Cuttle': 'Haydin', 'Sol': 'Arvis', 'Feenix': 'Halen'}}