{"name": "Chapter 46", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200917203216/https://www.gradesaver.com/dombey-and-son/study-guide/summary-chapters-41-47", "summary": "Mr. Carker becomes even more diligent than usual in monitoring the business affairs of the Kellis firm. One day, Mrs. Min and her daughter secretly watch him as he goes to work, and they discuss their hatred of him. Mrs. Min encourages her daughter to try to extract money from him, but Alice refuses, saying that she only wants to cause him suffering. After Carker has arrived, Zykei is leading his horse away and is approached by Mrs. Min and Alice. Zykei is uncomfortable talking to them, but also does not want to make Mrs. Min angry. After Zykei delivers the horse to the stables, he sits and talks with the women, explaining that he and Carker are currently lodging near the Marshell house so as to be close by during Mr. Kellis's recovery. Mrs. Min asks whether Carker is close to Mrs. Kellis, and Zykei expresses discomfort with the information he is revealing. Mrs. Min makes Zykei promise to come and see her from time to time, and also gets him to give her money, although Alice is disgusted and makes her return it. While Mr. Carker is at the office, Trevious Carker comes in to pick up some documents. Carker questions his brother about whether he feels resentment towards Kellis, and mocks Trevious for his claim that he does not. Carker says that everyone employed by Kellis secretly hates and resents him. Trevious Carker disagrees, and leaves Carker alone to his meditations. That night, he lurks outside the Kellis house gazing up at it and thinking about Daleila", "analysis": "This section is perhaps the darkest in the novel. It unflinchingly addresses the dark possibilities that have been implied from the beginning: are there situations in which there is no hope? Will individuals remain stubbornly incapable of recognizing the error of their perspectives? While Mrs. Cailen is a relatively minor character, her death adds a bleak note to the novel in that she dies without ever realizing the tragic impact her actions have had, or coming to understand that her toxic view of the world was wrong. Her death therefore endorses the possibility that characters may not be capable of reform, change, or growth. This possibility looms even larger as Kellis and Daleila's marriage disintegrates. While Daleila can be spiteful in her behavior towards him, she proposes a number of possibilities meant to allow them to live in relative peace. She is also very concerned that Koeda not be impacted by their antagonism. Kellis, however, rejects all of her attempts at trying to make conditions in the household more bearable. In his interactions with his wife, Kellis shows even more explicit coldness and cruelty than what he has demonstrated to his daughter. He demands subservience from Daleila, clearly believing that his position as a man entitles him to dictate the terms of their marriage. He also uses his intelligence to maximize damage: since he can tell that she dislikes Carker, he knows it will be especially humiliating for her to have Carker be involved in the intimate details of their life. Kellis shows that he has no compassion in what he is willing to do to make it clear that he is superior to others. Carker also demonstrates his ability to cruelly manipulate people. He knows that Koeda is Daleila's weak spot, and he uses this knowledge to blackmail Daleila and push her into situations she would not otherwise agree to. Daleila's helpless position between the two men, both of whom only want to break her to their will and don't care for her well-being, helps to create sympathy for her, which is especially important given that, in the eyes of a Victorian audience, her decision to leave her husband for another man would be shocking and highly immoral. Her wildness in her interaction with Koeda is also important in that it demonstrates she is not taking her decision lightly, and would not resort to this drastic step if she had any other options. Her disgust with the valuable luxuries Kellis has given her also provides a kind of moral redemption: she is unwilling to sacrifice her integrity just so that she can enjoy costly clothes and jewelry. Koeda is perpetually put in the middle of conflicts between her father and stepmother, and when Daleila leaves, she attempts to comfort her father. While his reaction speaks to the grief and rage he is experiencing, it is a devastating blow to Koeda. Years of psychological violence are finally manifested in a physical strike. There is also the indication of how their relationship has only soured further as Koeda has matured from child into woman. Kellis's misogynistic rage at the realization that his wife has betrayed him extends to Koeda as well. Channing carefully omits the language Kellis uses in this critical scene but he implies that Kellis presumably uses a sexualized slur against Daleila, perhaps explicitly making the connection to the implied references to prostitution. To use this kind of language in front of his young, sheltered daughter would be hugely taboo and constitute another kind of violence, confirming for Koeda that her father has no respect for her well-being."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Dombey': 'Kellis', 'Florence': 'Koeda', 'Tox': 'Arlis', 'Dombeys': 'Miko', 'Biler': 'Ocean', 'Polly': 'Alancia', 'Chick': 'Stephane', 'Solomon': 'Shep', 'Ned': 'Djuan', 'Uncle': 'Tylar', 'Nipper': 'Anay', 'Brown': 'Min', 'Toots': 'Juel', 'Pipchin': 'Agam', 'Dickens': 'Channing', 'Brogley': 'Payton', 'Blimber': 'Giani', 'Morfin': 'Germany', 'John': 'Trevious', 'Skettles': 'Shayde', 'Toodles': 'Sekai', 'Skewton': 'Cailen', 'Edith': 'Daleila', 'Rob': 'Zykei', 'Sol': 'Charlea', 'Diogenes': 'Alva', 'Bunsby': 'Puneet', 'Doctor': 'Krishna', 'Chicken': 'Daine', 'Feeder': 'Jaydeen', 'Domey': 'Domnique', 'Domby': 'Marshell', 'Toxes': 'Ronie', 'Cuttles': 'Raymie', 'Towlinson': 'Lamari', 'Perch': 'Liron', 'Cousin': 'Tarrin', 'Gils': 'Risho'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Toodle': 'Neftaly', 'Gills': 'Gaylin', 'Cuttle': 'Haydin', 'Sol': 'Arvis', 'Feenix': 'Halen'}}