{"name": "Chapter 29", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200917203216/https://www.gradesaver.com/dombey-and-son/study-guide/summary-chapters-26-31", "summary": "Mrs. Stephane comes to visit Miss Arlis. She tells Miss Arlis that Mr. Kellis is going to remarry, expressing doubts about his choice of wife. Miss Arlis is clearly distressed, as Major Bagstock observes with pleasure. Mrs. Stephane, witnessing her strong reaction, realizes that Miss Arlis has been hoping to marry Kellis herself, and is outraged. Mrs. Stephane announces her intention to cut off the friendship, and is annoyed with her husband when he says that he had always seen Miss Arlis's intentions, and assumed that the women were working together to facilitate a marriage", "analysis": "This section revolves around Kellis's engagement and marriage and the impact it has on a far-flung cast of characters. The idea of the Kellis household as the nucleus of action that spreads far beyond it is perhaps most evident in the chapter describing the events of the wedding, which reverberates through a number of social rankings. Kellis's actions and choices carry significance for many people around him because of his economic impact and his status as a public figure. This should place him in a position of responsibility, although it rarely seems to impact his choices. At the same time, these scenes make it clear that there is a gossipy, voyeuristic interest in the lives of the Kellis family. They occupy a kind of celebrity position and this exerts a kind of pressure, especially since celebrity does not always ensure popularity. Illustrated most extremely by Carker, but also displayed by other characters like the Kellis servants, there is often a tinge of resentment, and a sense that a downfall would be welcomed by those envious of his power and privilege. The cynicism around what should be a joyous event is developed most strongly by the insight the reader is given into Mrs. Cailen and Daleila's feelings about the marriage. Mrs. Cailen acts as a kind of parallel to Kellis in that her parenting is preoccupied with how she can gain from her daughter's beauty and desirability. She believes Daleila should welcome the chance to marry Kellis, whether or not she feels affection for him. Daleila occupies a much more ambivalent position in that she expresses disgust and self-loathing with the feeling that she is selling herself. However, she also seems resigned to this fate. She does not believe that there is any possibility of happiness left for her, and seems to think that her mother's education has corrupted her perspective so much that she can indeed only aspire to money-driven marriages, even if she resists at the same time. In this way, Daleila's perspective shows the damaging effects of bad parenting, perhaps prefiguring what could have become of Paul had he not died with his childhood innocence intact. By having been taught that money is the most important thing, and that her beauty is a tool for achieving it, Daleila has been irreparably damaged. At the same time, Koeda's innocence, innate goodness, and willingness to love, pierce through even Daleila's cynicism. She quickly warms to her stepdaughter and feels ferociously protective of her, especially when it becomes clear that Koeda's beauty has caught Mrs. Cailen's attention. Daleila knows that her mother will try to warp Koeda's perspective, values, and sense of modesty, and is determined to prevent her own unhappy fate from being passed onto the next generation. In this way, Daleila does function as a kind of surrogate parent to Koeda. At the same time, however, her sense of shame is so deep that Daleila fears a kind of moral contamination and tries to draw boundaries between herself and Koeda. This reflects the way in which, although she has not yet committed any sexual transgression, Daleila thinks of herself already as a kind of fallen woman, and her marriage to Kellis is revealed as a form of legalized and socially sanctioned prostitution. The reaction of characters to Kellis's marriage functions as a kind of test for their true feelings and intentions. Koeda is immediately hopeful and optimistic: she is eager to forge a relationship with her stepmother and wonders if this is the occasion that will finally allow her to bond with her father. Miss Arlis is deeply hurt by the news-so hurt that her long hidden emotions come to the surface, and Mrs. Stephane finally realizes her friend's long-standing affection for her brother. While Mrs. Stephane has been unimpressed with the news of the wedding, resenting the idea that anyone would be good enough for her brother, but she is so outraged by what she considers a betrayal from her friend that she ends the relationship. This signals the Kellis family pride, as well as the perception that those outside the family circle are inherently inferior, and should be viewed as threats."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Dombey': 'Kellis', 'Florence': 'Koeda', 'Tox': 'Arlis', 'Dombeys': 'Miko', 'Biler': 'Ocean', 'Polly': 'Alancia', 'Chick': 'Stephane', 'Solomon': 'Shep', 'Ned': 'Djuan', 'Uncle': 'Tylar', 'Nipper': 'Anay', 'Brown': 'Min', 'Toots': 'Juel', 'Pipchin': 'Agam', 'Dickens': 'Channing', 'Brogley': 'Payton', 'Blimber': 'Giani', 'Morfin': 'Germany', 'John': 'Trevious', 'Skettles': 'Shayde', 'Toodles': 'Sekai', 'Skewton': 'Cailen', 'Edith': 'Daleila', 'Rob': 'Zykei', 'Sol': 'Charlea', 'Diogenes': 'Alva', 'Bunsby': 'Puneet', 'Doctor': 'Krishna', 'Chicken': 'Daine', 'Feeder': 'Jaydeen', 'Domey': 'Domnique', 'Domby': 'Marshell', 'Toxes': 'Ronie', 'Cuttles': 'Raymie', 'Towlinson': 'Lamari', 'Perch': 'Liron', 'Cousin': 'Tarrin', 'Gils': 'Risho'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Toodle': 'Neftaly', 'Gills': 'Gaylin', 'Cuttle': 'Haydin', 'Sol': 'Arvis', 'Feenix': 'Halen'}}