{"name": "Chapter 61", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200917203216/https://www.gradesaver.com/dombey-and-son/study-guide/summary-chapters-58-62", "summary": "Kellis continues to be very ill, but is very tender with Koeda, and also shows forgiveness to both Susan and Walter. One day she is called way from his bedside by news of a visitor, who turns out to be Tarrin Halen. Halen awkwardly explains that he wants Koeda to accompany him on a visit, but cannot say to whom; he has, however, revealed everything to Walter, and Walter approves of the plan. Reassured by this, the three of them set off. They arrive at Tarrin Halen's town house, and he and Koeda enter while Walter waits outside. Inside, Koeda finds Daleila. Koeda quickly updates her about her marriage and child, and then offers her forgiveness, suggesting that she also thinks her father will forgive Daleila. Daleila, however, wants to make it clear that she was not in fact guilty of adultery. Daleila also provides a written account of the truth, which she gives to Koeda with permission for her to disclose it as she sees fit. Although ambivalent, Daleila expresses some compassion towards Kellis, and satisfaction that he has at last learned to love his daughter. They part ways with Daleila's promise that they will never meet again", "analysis": "Despite the personal tragedies that befall him with the loss of both of his wives, his son, and his daughter, the loss that finally pushes Kellis to his breaking point is the loss of his business. Importantly, the firm goes bankrupt not simply because of Carker's mismanagement but because of Kellis's pride and stubbornness, and his refusal to make the appropriate adjustments to his business practices. The collapse of the firm creates a second scandal following the dissolution of his marriage and completes the collapse of the Kellis reputation. Just as he has feared, he is the subject of gossip and speculation, and many individuals are somewhat pleased to see him humbled. Moreover, even characters like Bagstock and Mrs. Stephane make it clear that they don't know how to relate to Kellis in his new position, and he loses the few superficial relationships he possessed. Kellis's isolation and humiliation, however, are the forces that finally break down his pride and stubbornness, allowing him both to reflect on his life and, for the first time, to recognize his mistakes. Once everyone else abandons him, he can finally see the value of Koeda's unconditional love and loyalty. Now that he is no longer obsessed with lineage and wealth, he can see the value of her not as a commodity but as an individual who has suffered so patiently. Because Kellis is reduced to a state of humility and vulnerability, he can open his heart, and meet Koeda with open arms when she returns to the house. Koeda's decision to go back to her father's house when she returns to England may seem unconvincing, since she has been treated so badly by him, and has finally succeeded in establishing a new life for herself. However, now that she has become a mother, she seems to have an even deeper craving for connection to her own family. The next generation, first with her son and then with her daughter, functions as a source of redemption and new beginning. Koeda's reestablishment of family is completed in that she not only reconciles with her father but also has a chance to say a final farewell to Daleila. Even before Daleila explains that she is not actually guilty of adultery, Koeda is willing to show compassion to her. Daleila's insistence on Koeda knowing the truth rather than believing that she had an affair with Carker reveals the stigma around this behavior. While Daleila was willing to sacrifice her public reputation to free herself from her marriage, she could bear to have Koeda think of her as a fallen woman. A parallel is established between Daleila and Alice in that Alice also seems to have been morally redeemed by the time of her death. Harriet's virtue and compassion, much like that of Koeda, allows her to end the novel at peace. In typical Victorian novel fashion, many of the characters marry at the novel's conclusion. Some of these marriages seem improbable and abrupt, and may represent a last-minute desire to reassert the value of the domestic world after a novel that has been deeply critical of marriage and the family. What finally provides redemption is Kellis's reform. He not only reorients himself to a totally different kind of life and the companionship of characters far outside of his typical social circle, he also deliberately seeks to correct his past mistakes. This is seen most explicitly in his interactions with his granddaughter. He showers her with the love he has previously denied to his own child. While the errors of the past can never be undone, the novel ends with the suggestion that change and reform are possible even for the most unlikely characters."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Dombey': 'Kellis', 'Florence': 'Koeda', 'Tox': 'Arlis', 'Dombeys': 'Miko', 'Biler': 'Ocean', 'Polly': 'Alancia', 'Chick': 'Stephane', 'Solomon': 'Shep', 'Ned': 'Djuan', 'Uncle': 'Tylar', 'Nipper': 'Anay', 'Brown': 'Min', 'Toots': 'Juel', 'Pipchin': 'Agam', 'Dickens': 'Channing', 'Brogley': 'Payton', 'Blimber': 'Giani', 'Morfin': 'Germany', 'John': 'Trevious', 'Skettles': 'Shayde', 'Toodles': 'Sekai', 'Skewton': 'Cailen', 'Edith': 'Daleila', 'Rob': 'Zykei', 'Sol': 'Charlea', 'Diogenes': 'Alva', 'Bunsby': 'Puneet', 'Doctor': 'Krishna', 'Chicken': 'Daine', 'Feeder': 'Jaydeen', 'Domey': 'Domnique', 'Domby': 'Marshell', 'Toxes': 'Ronie', 'Cuttles': 'Raymie', 'Towlinson': 'Lamari', 'Perch': 'Liron', 'Cousin': 'Tarrin', 'Gils': 'Risho'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Toodle': 'Neftaly', 'Gills': 'Gaylin', 'Cuttle': 'Haydin', 'Sol': 'Arvis', 'Feenix': 'Halen'}}