{"name": "Chapter 52", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200917203216/https://www.gradesaver.com/dombey-and-son/study-guide/summary-chapters-48-52", "summary": "Alice and Mrs. Min argue about whether Kellis will come to see them. Mrs. Min has stopped him in the street to hint that she knows the whereabouts of Daleila and Carker. She is thus the source of Kellis's possible information, hinted at in the previous chapter. As they are having this conversation, Kellis does in fact arrive. He says that he will pay them for information leading to the location of Daleila and Carker, if the information turns out to be accurate. Alice haughtily tells him that while her mother might sell this information for profit, her motive is making Carker suffer. Mrs. Min then goes on to explain that she is in fact waiting for someone else to arrive, and this individual will be the one to provide information. She also explains that Kellis will have to hide and secretly listen to the conversation. He reluctantly agrees, and a short time later, Zykei arrives. He has brought a parrot, abandoned by Carker after his disappearance, and wants Mrs. Min to care for it. He is very cautious about responding to the hints she drops about his master; however, through manipulation and physical threats, the two women overwhelm him. Zykei admits that he is still being paid, but has no specific tasks. He is coaxed to talk about the night Daleila left, explaining that Carker and Daleila left the city separately with plans to meet later at an appointed place. Zykei eventually admits that Daleila's coach was bound for Dijon, a city in France. He then falls asleep, and Kellis emerges from his hiding place, pays Mrs. Min, and leaves the house in a hurry. Alice and Mrs. Min are satisfied that he will find a way to exact revenge on Carker", "analysis": "This section reveals that the fallout of the collapse of the Kellis marriage and Koeda's departure from her home has mixed results. For Koeda, this seems to be a liberating transition. While she is clearly traumatized by feeling that she no longer has any family, the individuals who welcome her demonstrate that love and loyalty can be displayed without blood relations. Indeed, Haydin, Juel, and Susan rally around her with the unconditional love more typically expected from family members. They love her for who she is, whether or not she has a prestigious social position and wealth. Juel, primarily a comic character, also shows genuine integrity in prioritizing Koeda's happiness above his own, and respecting her choice to marry Walter without demonstrating any of the jealousy and bitterness that is so insidious in much of the novel. Moreover, now that Koeda is no longer linked with her father, she can more freely choose the kind of family she wants to create for herself, which she does by agreeing to marry Walter. Walter is clear that he would not have approached her or considered himself worthy of her in her former social position, and certainly her father would never have agreed to the match. The pain of Koeda's estrangement is offset by her new autonomy and freedom: she can choose to give herself to Walter without needing to seek anyone's approval. While Koeda can sometimes seem to be unappealingly passive and dutiful, this section reveals her autonomy, and indeed, her power. As Hilary Schor explains, \"in weaving the web of connection that will bring about the novel's happy ending  she moves from the highest realms of English society to the casual working class poverty of the Sekai and the decaying gentility of the Arlises and the Gaylin\" . While Koeda's future prospects seem to blossom once she leaves her father's house, Kellis has not learned from the experience and is fixated on preserving his public image and getting revenge on Carker. Some of this desire is shaped by social expectation that he should not tolerate a grave insult, especially from someone who is his social inferior. Kellis's desire for revenge plays into the schemes of Alice and Mrs. Min; in a sense, others are still manipulating him. He is also fixated on the past, rather than attempting to move forward now that his marriage has ended."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Dombey': 'Kellis', 'Florence': 'Koeda', 'Tox': 'Arlis', 'Dombeys': 'Miko', 'Biler': 'Ocean', 'Polly': 'Alancia', 'Chick': 'Stephane', 'Solomon': 'Shep', 'Ned': 'Djuan', 'Uncle': 'Tylar', 'Nipper': 'Anay', 'Brown': 'Min', 'Toots': 'Juel', 'Pipchin': 'Agam', 'Dickens': 'Channing', 'Brogley': 'Payton', 'Blimber': 'Giani', 'Morfin': 'Germany', 'John': 'Trevious', 'Skettles': 'Shayde', 'Toodles': 'Sekai', 'Skewton': 'Cailen', 'Edith': 'Daleila', 'Rob': 'Zykei', 'Sol': 'Charlea', 'Diogenes': 'Alva', 'Bunsby': 'Puneet', 'Doctor': 'Krishna', 'Chicken': 'Daine', 'Feeder': 'Jaydeen', 'Domey': 'Domnique', 'Domby': 'Marshell', 'Toxes': 'Ronie', 'Cuttles': 'Raymie', 'Towlinson': 'Lamari', 'Perch': 'Liron', 'Cousin': 'Tarrin', 'Gils': 'Risho'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Toodle': 'Neftaly', 'Gills': 'Gaylin', 'Cuttle': 'Haydin', 'Sol': 'Arvis', 'Feenix': 'Halen'}}