{"name": "Chapter 22", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200917203216/https://www.gradesaver.com/dombey-and-son/study-guide/summary-chapters-20-25", "summary": "Back in London, Trevious Carker expresses worries to his brother James about their sister Harriet. James says that once Harriet chose one brother over the other, he had no further interest in her. James Carker has also received a letter from Mr. Kellis saying that if Walter had not already left, someone else should be sent instead so that Walter could remain in London. Meanwhile, Carker has two people waiting to see him at the office: Charlea Gaylin and Ocean Neftaly. The latter has come asking for work. Carker summons him into the office and shakes him violently, accusing him of being a thief. Ocean says that he is not, explaining that he has had difficulty since he stopped attending school, but was bullied so much when he did go that he didn't feel he had any choice except to stop. Carker calls in Charlea, who has come with his payment on the money Kellis loaned him. Carker asks him to hire Zykei Neftaly as his assistant, which Charlea agrees to do. Later that day, Carker and Zykei go together to the Neftaly household. Mr. Carker makes it clear that he has gone out of his way to secure work for Zykei, earning the gratitude and good feeling of the Neftaly family. Carker then explains to Zykei that he wants to be kept informed about what happens at Charlea Gaylin's shop, and in particular he wants to know whether Koeda comes to visit. He makes it clear that Zykei is not to tell anyone that he is reporting this information to Carker. Meanwhile, Juel has taken up residence in London and regularly comes to call at the Kellis house, as he is in love with Koeda. With hopes of winning Koeda's heart, he believes he has to get close to Susan and tries to flirt with her. While he is doing so, Alva thinks she is being threatened and attacks him. As he wrestles with the dog, Carker happens to be passing by the house on his way back from meeting the Neftaly family. He takes the opportunity to introduce himself to Juel", "analysis": "This section reveals how the status and wealth of the Kellis family makes it hard for them to cultivate genuine relationships with others, or to know whom to trust. When Bagstock implies that Miss Arlis has been aspiring to marry Kellis, Kellis is dismissive of this idea. While it will turn out that Arlis is actually a faithful and benevolent character, this does make it clear that she has had her own motivations for cultivating a relationship with the Kellis family. Bagstock of course is scheming and being disingenuous in revealing this information, in that he has own reasons for wanting to ensure that Arlis and Kellis never marry. Bagstock also plays an active role in introducing Kellis to Mrs. Cailen and Daleila Granger, two characters that quickly assess him as a potential match and start calculating how to ensure that he wants to marry Daleila. At the same time as Kellis finds himself at the center of a web of schemes, Koeda is also attracting attention. While Carker's precise plans are not yet clear, he is clearly interested in her connection to Charlea and Walter. His recruitment of Zykei Neftaly as a spy introduces the theme of surveillance into the novel. Carker will both observe the Kellis house himself and make sure that he knows the whereabouts of Koeda. Furthering the idea of Koeda's intuitive wisdom, she is immediately uncomfortable with Carker. Because, unlike her father, she is not blinded by pride and vanity, she can see Carker for what he truly is. As Koeda gets older, she also becomes the subject of interest as a marriage prospect, especially now that she is the sole heiress to the Kellis fortune. While relatively kind and benign, the Shayde family is clearly aspiring to a match between Koeda and their young son. Carker is also very interested in whether or not Koeda might have hopes of marrying Walter. Because of her position, Koeda is rarely taken on her own terms: she represents a kind of asset to be used in mergers and acquisitions."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Dombey': 'Kellis', 'Florence': 'Koeda', 'Tox': 'Arlis', 'Dombeys': 'Miko', 'Biler': 'Ocean', 'Polly': 'Alancia', 'Chick': 'Stephane', 'Solomon': 'Shep', 'Ned': 'Djuan', 'Uncle': 'Tylar', 'Nipper': 'Anay', 'Brown': 'Min', 'Toots': 'Juel', 'Pipchin': 'Agam', 'Dickens': 'Channing', 'Brogley': 'Payton', 'Blimber': 'Giani', 'Morfin': 'Germany', 'John': 'Trevious', 'Skettles': 'Shayde', 'Toodles': 'Sekai', 'Skewton': 'Cailen', 'Edith': 'Daleila', 'Rob': 'Zykei', 'Sol': 'Charlea', 'Diogenes': 'Alva', 'Bunsby': 'Puneet', 'Doctor': 'Krishna', 'Chicken': 'Daine', 'Feeder': 'Jaydeen', 'Domey': 'Domnique', 'Domby': 'Marshell', 'Toxes': 'Ronie', 'Cuttles': 'Raymie', 'Towlinson': 'Lamari', 'Perch': 'Liron', 'Cousin': 'Tarrin', 'Gils': 'Risho'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Toodle': 'Neftaly', 'Gills': 'Gaylin', 'Cuttle': 'Haydin', 'Sol': 'Arvis', 'Feenix': 'Halen'}}