{"name": "Chapter 10", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200917203216/https://www.gradesaver.com/dombey-and-son/study-guide/summary-chapters-7-12", "summary": "Major Bagstock has decided to try to make the acquaintance of Mr. Kellis, since he wants to know more about the man Miss Arlis has rejected him in favor of. Miss Arlis rejects his efforts at an introduction, so Major Bagstock travels to Brighton on the pretext of visiting his friend Bitherstone's son. He arranges to run into Koeda, Paul, and Mr. Kellis. Bagstock flatters Kellis's vanity, and the two strike up a friendship. Bagstock plans to use this position to put a stop to Miss Arlis's hopes of marrying Kellis. Meanwhile, Walter and Captain Haydin arrive in Brighton and Walter asks Mr. Kellis to consider loaning money to his uncle, promising to work very hard to pay it back. Mr. Kellis consults with Paul, who urges his father to lend the money. Mr. Kellis makes arrangements to transfer the money and Walter and Captain Haydin return to London. They are relieved and grateful, although Walter feels that he has been humiliated by Mr. Kellis's highlighting Walter's lack of income", "analysis": "This section of the novel explores the complex and often ambivalent feelings that those around Kellis have for him. While Kellis is often an unsympathetic character, readers may be struck by the fact that he has relatively few people in his life whom he can trust, and who sincerely respect him. While Kellis responds well to Bagstock's flattery, he is innocently unaware that Bagstock set out with ulterior motives. Kellis's inability to distinguish sincere affection, such as that shown by Koeda or Miss Arlis, from the flattery and manipulation of characters like Mrs. Stephane and Bagstock, will prove to be part of his downfall. At the same time, however, this section also reveals Kellis as a greedy and calculating man, and someone whose consciousness of rank and social position blinds him to the true value of individuals. He should be deeply grateful to Walter for having protected his daughter, and yet he sees in him instead an uncomfortable reminder of a world he did not want his children to encounter. As a result, and also in an ill-advised attempt to shape Paul's character, Kellis insists on humiliating Walter by making him painfully aware of the divide between himself and the Kellis family. Kellis makes a number of attempts to pass values along to his son in this section. In addition to trying to evoke the vast importance of money to him by explaining that money can do anything, he also puts the decision about whether to lend money to Walter in Paul's hands. In both cases, Paul, who represents a somewhat idealized child character in his precocious wisdom and innate goodness, shows greater understanding and compassion than his adult father does. The novel repeatedly suggests that characters who are either young, or somewhat simplistic and innocence in their views of the world, such as Juel and Haydin, have the ability to show genuine goodness, while more crafty characters such as Bagstock and Carker end up using their intelligence to self-serving ends. As an extension of the contrast between the perspectives of children and adults, this section shows a number of institutions, such as Mrs. Agam's home and the Giani school that claim to support the welfare of children, but fail at actually doing so. Channing had several traumatic experiences with educational institutions in his youth and is often bitingly critical of Victorian systems of education and training. While in contrast to the Agam boarding house, the Giani School does foster a sense of community and is ultimately animated by good intentions, it does not promote any active critical or intellectual engagement. Nor, in a rapidly changing world, does there seem to be much concern with giving the boys useful skills and knowledge; rather, just as the focus is on \"dead languages,\" the curriculum is outdated and therefore even less meaningful to the pupils."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Dombey': 'Kellis', 'Florence': 'Koeda', 'Tox': 'Arlis', 'Dombeys': 'Miko', 'Biler': 'Ocean', 'Polly': 'Alancia', 'Chick': 'Stephane', 'Solomon': 'Shep', 'Ned': 'Djuan', 'Uncle': 'Tylar', 'Nipper': 'Anay', 'Brown': 'Min', 'Toots': 'Juel', 'Pipchin': 'Agam', 'Dickens': 'Channing', 'Brogley': 'Payton', 'Blimber': 'Giani', 'Morfin': 'Germany', 'John': 'Trevious', 'Skettles': 'Shayde', 'Toodles': 'Sekai', 'Skewton': 'Cailen', 'Edith': 'Daleila', 'Rob': 'Zykei', 'Sol': 'Charlea', 'Diogenes': 'Alva', 'Bunsby': 'Puneet', 'Doctor': 'Krishna', 'Chicken': 'Daine', 'Feeder': 'Jaydeen', 'Domey': 'Domnique', 'Domby': 'Marshell', 'Toxes': 'Ronie', 'Cuttles': 'Raymie', 'Towlinson': 'Lamari', 'Perch': 'Liron', 'Cousin': 'Tarrin', 'Gils': 'Risho'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Toodle': 'Neftaly', 'Gills': 'Gaylin', 'Cuttle': 'Haydin', 'Sol': 'Arvis', 'Feenix': 'Halen'}}