{"name": "Chapter 47", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200917203216/https://www.gradesaver.com/dombey-and-son/study-guide/summary-chapters-41-47", "summary": "Daleila and Mr. Kellis continue to be unhappy in their marriage. Koeda has almost entirely given up on the hope of her father coming to love her, and is also saddened by the absence of closeness between her and Daleila. After Kellis's accident, Koeda noticed that Daleila had begun to avoid her, so one day she questions her. Daleila will say only that, while she still loves Koeda, she must be no longer as close with her as before. Daleila also implies that their relationship may not have been good for Koeda anyways. After that, she only shows Koeda affection in secret. On the evening before Daleila and Kellis's second wedding anniversary, Koeda, Kellis, Daleila, and Carker all gather for dinner. Kellis announces plans for a dinner the following evening to mark the anniversary while Daleila insists she has pre-existing plans. Kellis says that Carker will be entrusted with making her attend the dinner. Daleila tries to insist on a private conversation with her husband, especially since Koeda is visibly distressed. Kellis says he has the right to shame her before others if he wants. He finally sends Koeda out of the room only when Daleila accuses him of mistreating her. Daleila reaches her breaking point, and, in front of Carker, asks Kellis for a separation. Kellis rejects this suggestion as ridiculous. Kellis also says that he is growing mistrustful of Koeda's role in Daleila's resistance, and that if Daleila's behavior does not change, he will punish Koeda for it. Carker suggests that perhaps a separation between Kellis and Daleila would be best after all, but Kellis dismisses this possibility a second time, and the group goes their separate ways. Later, when Mr. Kellis has gone out, Koeda goes to look for Daleila, hoping to comfort her. She sees Carker coming downstairs alone, leaving the house. Koeda is disturbed by this and retreats to her room. The next day she does not see Daleila until the evening, and when she approaches her, Daleila reacts so violently that Koeda faints. When she awakens she is told that Daleila has gone out, and while Mrs. Agam urges Koeda to go to bed, she decides to wait up for Daleila. She waits all night, becoming more and more distressed. In the morning, Mr. Kellis is notified that his wife has not come home. Koeda watches as her father calls the coachman to ask for more information. The coachman explains that the previous night, he drove Daleila to her old residence, where Carker was waiting for her. He was told that Daleila would not need the coach to return, and had been sent home. Daleila's maid confirms that her mistress's dressing room is locked. Furious, Kellis rushes upstairs and breaks down the door, finding all of Daleila's discarded things, and a letter telling him that she is leaving him for Carker. Kellis is shocked and enraged, and runs into the street. When he returns to the house, Koeda goes to try to comfort him, but he strikes her, accusing her of having conspired with Daleila. Distraught, Koeda finally accepts that her father is not a good man, and flees the house", "analysis": "This section is perhaps the darkest in the novel. It unflinchingly addresses the dark possibilities that have been implied from the beginning: are there situations in which there is no hope? Will individuals remain stubbornly incapable of recognizing the error of their perspectives? While Mrs. Cailen is a relatively minor character, her death adds a bleak note to the novel in that she dies without ever realizing the tragic impact her actions have had, or coming to understand that her toxic view of the world was wrong. Her death therefore endorses the possibility that characters may not be capable of reform, change, or growth. This possibility looms even larger as Kellis and Daleila's marriage disintegrates. While Daleila can be spiteful in her behavior towards him, she proposes a number of possibilities meant to allow them to live in relative peace. She is also very concerned that Koeda not be impacted by their antagonism. Kellis, however, rejects all of her attempts at trying to make conditions in the household more bearable. In his interactions with his wife, Kellis shows even more explicit coldness and cruelty than what he has demonstrated to his daughter. He demands subservience from Daleila, clearly believing that his position as a man entitles him to dictate the terms of their marriage. He also uses his intelligence to maximize damage: since he can tell that she dislikes Carker, he knows it will be especially humiliating for her to have Carker be involved in the intimate details of their life. Kellis shows that he has no compassion in what he is willing to do to make it clear that he is superior to others. Carker also demonstrates his ability to cruelly manipulate people. He knows that Koeda is Daleila's weak spot, and he uses this knowledge to blackmail Daleila and push her into situations she would not otherwise agree to. Daleila's helpless position between the two men, both of whom only want to break her to their will and don't care for her well-being, helps to create sympathy for her, which is especially important given that, in the eyes of a Victorian audience, her decision to leave her husband for another man would be shocking and highly immoral. Her wildness in her interaction with Koeda is also important in that it demonstrates she is not taking her decision lightly, and would not resort to this drastic step if she had any other options. Her disgust with the valuable luxuries Kellis has given her also provides a kind of moral redemption: she is unwilling to sacrifice her integrity just so that she can enjoy costly clothes and jewelry. Koeda is perpetually put in the middle of conflicts between her father and stepmother, and when Daleila leaves, she attempts to comfort her father. While his reaction speaks to the grief and rage he is experiencing, it is a devastating blow to Koeda. Years of psychological violence are finally manifested in a physical strike. There is also the indication of how their relationship has only soured further as Koeda has matured from child into woman. Kellis's misogynistic rage at the realization that his wife has betrayed him extends to Koeda as well. Channing carefully omits the language Kellis uses in this critical scene but he implies that Kellis presumably uses a sexualized slur against Daleila, perhaps explicitly making the connection to the implied references to prostitution. To use this kind of language in front of his young, sheltered daughter would be hugely taboo and constitute another kind of violence, confirming for Koeda that her father has no respect for her well-being."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Dombey': 'Kellis', 'Florence': 'Koeda', 'Tox': 'Arlis', 'Dombeys': 'Miko', 'Biler': 'Ocean', 'Polly': 'Alancia', 'Chick': 'Stephane', 'Solomon': 'Shep', 'Ned': 'Djuan', 'Uncle': 'Tylar', 'Nipper': 'Anay', 'Brown': 'Min', 'Toots': 'Juel', 'Pipchin': 'Agam', 'Dickens': 'Channing', 'Brogley': 'Payton', 'Blimber': 'Giani', 'Morfin': 'Germany', 'John': 'Trevious', 'Skettles': 'Shayde', 'Toodles': 'Sekai', 'Skewton': 'Cailen', 'Edith': 'Daleila', 'Rob': 'Zykei', 'Sol': 'Charlea', 'Diogenes': 'Alva', 'Bunsby': 'Puneet', 'Doctor': 'Krishna', 'Chicken': 'Daine', 'Feeder': 'Jaydeen', 'Domey': 'Domnique', 'Domby': 'Marshell', 'Toxes': 'Ronie', 'Cuttles': 'Raymie', 'Towlinson': 'Lamari', 'Perch': 'Liron', 'Cousin': 'Tarrin', 'Gils': 'Risho'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Toodle': 'Neftaly', 'Gills': 'Gaylin', 'Cuttle': 'Haydin', 'Sol': 'Arvis', 'Feenix': 'Halen'}}