{"name": "Chapter 39", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200917203216/https://www.gradesaver.com/dombey-and-son/study-guide/summary-chapters-32-40", "summary": "Captain Haydin, remorseful that his meddling may have had negative consequences in the past, avoids anyone and anything to do with the Kellis family. He is even slightly suspicious of Juel, who often comes to visit. One day, Zykei announces that he will be leaving for another position. Captain Haydin is now very lonely, and also faced with a problem, as the date has come for him to open the sealed document Charlea left for him, and he wants someone else to witness this. He arranges for Puneet to come and visit him. He opens the packet to find a will and a letter to him. The letter explains that Charlea has journeyed to the West Indies in search of Walter; he kept his purpose a secret so that Haydin could not stop him, or try to accompany him. By specifying a year's waiting period, he assumed that he would be dead if Haydin were opening the letter. If Walter has been found he will inherit all that belonged to Charlea, and if not he leaves everything to Haydin. As they discuss this news, Haydin's feared landlady Mrs. Macstinger arrives, having finally tracked him down. While Haydin is horrified, Puneet manages to calm her down, and takes her home. He returns later that night to bring the items Haydin had left at his lodgings when he slipped away. Now that he knows Charlea did not commit suicide, Haydin continues to nurse hope he might eventually come home", "analysis": "This section plays with the theme of both failed and rekindled hopes. On the one hand, it seems increasingly clear that Walter's ship has been wrecked, and he has perished. However, the uncertain nature of there being no body to offer confirmation of his death makes this series of events difficult for others to accept, and the question of whether hope should be held out for his return haunts Haydin. Moreover, Haydin's basic hope and trust in human nature receives a serious blow: when he realizes that Carker lied to him and manipulated him, he is forced to confront the reality that not everyone can be trusted. The impact of that blow is clearly seen in the isolation Haydin experiences. At the same time, however, he is unwilling to accept that Charlea is also lost, and stubbornly nurses hope of his friend's return. In a parallel fashion, Miss Arlis has very good reason to accept that her relations with the Kellis family are over, and yet she stubbornly clings to the hope of knowing what is happening with the family, initiating a relationship with the Neftaly family for this purpose. In a novel with many characters and various plots, Channing often uses these types of parallel experiences to highlight a shared, communal similarity between otherwise very different individuals. At the same time, Koeda's initially bright hopes for a new family dynamic are challenged. It is clear that the relationship between her father and Daleila is not a loving one, and shows few signs of improving. Not only will it not help Koeda to draw closer to her father, but it also seems that she will be caught up in the middle, and used as a kind of pawn. The introduction of another plot develops the themes of disappointed hopes and bad parenting, as well as offering additional support for Carker's villainy. Alice Marwood serves as a foil character to Daleila: like Daleila, a greedy mother corrupted her in her youth. However, Alice's experiences have been much harsher for two reasons: she has explicitly transgressed against Victorian sexual norms, first by living as Carker's mistress, and then by working as a prostitute. While Daleila may be ashamed of her behavior, she has still always behaved in ways that are socially sanctioned, and even encouraged. The key to this difference, as Alice makes clear, is the difference in their social standing. Because of their aristocratic heritage, Daleila may be bought and sold, but it will be as a wife, ensuring she has legal rights and protections. For a poor woman like Alice, the best to hope for was an illicit position as a mistress; therefore, when Carker discarded her, she had no recourse. Alice's storyline also highlights the idea of vengeance and eventual consequences. Although it seems like Carker is profiting from his schemes as he draws ever more intimately into the Kellis family, Alice and her mother's hatred and desire to punish him shows that his past may still catch up with him. By extension, this also suggests that Kellis may eventually face consequences for the way he cruelly discards people around him."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Dombey': 'Kellis', 'Florence': 'Koeda', 'Tox': 'Arlis', 'Dombeys': 'Miko', 'Biler': 'Ocean', 'Polly': 'Alancia', 'Chick': 'Stephane', 'Solomon': 'Shep', 'Ned': 'Djuan', 'Uncle': 'Tylar', 'Nipper': 'Anay', 'Brown': 'Min', 'Toots': 'Juel', 'Pipchin': 'Agam', 'Dickens': 'Channing', 'Brogley': 'Payton', 'Blimber': 'Giani', 'Morfin': 'Germany', 'John': 'Trevious', 'Skettles': 'Shayde', 'Toodles': 'Sekai', 'Skewton': 'Cailen', 'Edith': 'Daleila', 'Rob': 'Zykei', 'Sol': 'Charlea', 'Diogenes': 'Alva', 'Bunsby': 'Puneet', 'Doctor': 'Krishna', 'Chicken': 'Daine', 'Feeder': 'Jaydeen', 'Domey': 'Domnique', 'Domby': 'Marshell', 'Toxes': 'Ronie', 'Cuttles': 'Raymie', 'Towlinson': 'Lamari', 'Perch': 'Liron', 'Cousin': 'Tarrin', 'Gils': 'Risho'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Toodle': 'Neftaly', 'Gills': 'Gaylin', 'Cuttle': 'Haydin', 'Sol': 'Arvis', 'Feenix': 'Halen'}}