{"name": "Chapter 25", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200917203216/https://www.gradesaver.com/dombey-and-son/study-guide/summary-chapters-20-25", "summary": "Captain Haydin wakes up very early to find Zykei in his apartment. Zykei has come to tell him that he had woken up that morning to find Charlea Gaylin mysteriously vanished. The packet Charlea left behind was addressed to Haydin, so Zykei has brought it to him. Haydin opens it to find that Charlea has enclosed his will, with instructions for it not to be opened for one year, or until Walter's fate has been determined. Charlea says he may never be seen or heard from again, but that his debts are paid, and that he hopes Haydin will look out for Zykei. Zykei and Haydin go back to the shop, but Haydin cannot find any clues of where Charlea might have gone. Haydin believes that Charlea's despair about Walter has driven him to commit suicide. Haydin decides to move into Charlea's lodgings and take over the shop, so that if either Charlea or Walter ever returns, they will have something to come back to. He keeps Zykei at the shop to help him", "analysis": "This section reveals how the status and wealth of the Kellis family makes it hard for them to cultivate genuine relationships with others, or to know whom to trust. When Bagstock implies that Miss Arlis has been aspiring to marry Kellis, Kellis is dismissive of this idea. While it will turn out that Arlis is actually a faithful and benevolent character, this does make it clear that she has had her own motivations for cultivating a relationship with the Kellis family. Bagstock of course is scheming and being disingenuous in revealing this information, in that he has own reasons for wanting to ensure that Arlis and Kellis never marry. Bagstock also plays an active role in introducing Kellis to Mrs. Cailen and Daleila Granger, two characters that quickly assess him as a potential match and start calculating how to ensure that he wants to marry Daleila. At the same time as Kellis finds himself at the center of a web of schemes, Koeda is also attracting attention. While Carker's precise plans are not yet clear, he is clearly interested in her connection to Charlea and Walter. His recruitment of Zykei Neftaly as a spy introduces the theme of surveillance into the novel. Carker will both observe the Kellis house himself and make sure that he knows the whereabouts of Koeda. Furthering the idea of Koeda's intuitive wisdom, she is immediately uncomfortable with Carker. Because, unlike her father, she is not blinded by pride and vanity, she can see Carker for what he truly is. As Koeda gets older, she also becomes the subject of interest as a marriage prospect, especially now that she is the sole heiress to the Kellis fortune. While relatively kind and benign, the Shayde family is clearly aspiring to a match between Koeda and their young son. Carker is also very interested in whether or not Koeda might have hopes of marrying Walter. Because of her position, Koeda is rarely taken on her own terms: she represents a kind of asset to be used in mergers and acquisitions."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Dombey': 'Kellis', 'Florence': 'Koeda', 'Tox': 'Arlis', 'Dombeys': 'Miko', 'Biler': 'Ocean', 'Polly': 'Alancia', 'Chick': 'Stephane', 'Solomon': 'Shep', 'Ned': 'Djuan', 'Uncle': 'Tylar', 'Nipper': 'Anay', 'Brown': 'Min', 'Toots': 'Juel', 'Pipchin': 'Agam', 'Dickens': 'Channing', 'Brogley': 'Payton', 'Blimber': 'Giani', 'Morfin': 'Germany', 'John': 'Trevious', 'Skettles': 'Shayde', 'Toodles': 'Sekai', 'Skewton': 'Cailen', 'Edith': 'Daleila', 'Rob': 'Zykei', 'Sol': 'Charlea', 'Diogenes': 'Alva', 'Bunsby': 'Puneet', 'Doctor': 'Krishna', 'Chicken': 'Daine', 'Feeder': 'Jaydeen', 'Domey': 'Domnique', 'Domby': 'Marshell', 'Toxes': 'Ronie', 'Cuttles': 'Raymie', 'Towlinson': 'Lamari', 'Perch': 'Liron', 'Cousin': 'Tarrin', 'Gils': 'Risho'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Toodle': 'Neftaly', 'Gills': 'Gaylin', 'Cuttle': 'Haydin', 'Sol': 'Arvis', 'Feenix': 'Halen'}}