{"name": "Chapter 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200917203216/https://www.gradesaver.com/dombey-and-son/study-guide/summary-chapters-1-6", "summary": "Paul thrives, and Miss Arlis takes an active interest in his growth, endearing herself to Mr. Kellis as a result. Mrs. Stephane suggests that Miss Arlis be made Paul's godmother, and Mr. Kellis agrees, although he makes it clear that he does not want anyone to ever act as a rival for Paul's affection and chooses Miss Arlis because she is inoffensive and uninteresting. The night, Miss Arlis and Mrs. Stephane sit in the nursery and discuss Koeda, who they believe will never gain her father's affection. Waking up and overhearing this, Koeda is distressed and asks to be put in bed with her brother, because she clings to the fact that at least Paul loves her. After Miss Arlis and Mrs. Stephane leave, Miss Anay expresses her anger at them for so blatantly favoring Paul. Shortly afterwards on a cold and dismal day, Paul's christening takes place. As part of the celebrations, Mr. Kellis announces that he has paid for Alancia's eldest son to attend a charity school known as the Charitable Grinders. While Alancia tries to be grateful, she is saddened to think of her son, whom she has not seen for a long time. Anay suggests that she, Richards, and Koeda go to visit Richards's family. Richards hesitates, but then agrees", "analysis": "The opening chapters introduce the web of characters whose lives will intersect over the course of the novel. Several of the major themes immediately become clear. A number of different family dynamics are presented and contrasted. Mr. Kellis is able to give his children economic privilege and elevated social standing, but he also sees them as projections of his own ego. He values his infant son because of the potential for continuing a family legacy, and is not only disinterested in, but also actively jealous of Koeda. On the other hand, the Neftaly family, or Tylar Charlea and his nephew Walter, while in much more precarious economic straits, and in fact dependent on the Kelliss for their income, show much more genuine love. The idea of families being created from unlikely combinations of individuals, which will reoccur as eclectic groups of characters form bonds throughout the novel, takes root as it becomes clear that Susan Anay and Richards are the ones actually providing love to Koeda and Paul. At the same time, their position as working-class employees ensures that they are viewed with suspicion: Mr. Kellis insists on isolating Richards from her family, and even renaming her, because he fears what influence she might have on Paul. Efforts to insulate the Kellis children, however, prove unsuccessful. There is an irony to the impetus for the catastrophic expedition to Stagg's Garden: a misguided belief on Kellis's part that he is benefiting Ocean Neftaly by providing him with some form of education only makes his mother more aware of the poignancy of him growing up without her. Not only the decision to leave the Kellis mansion, but also to take the children to a working class neighborhood, would be a direct reflection of Kellis's worst fears for his son. And while Koeda does indeed have a traumatic experience, her horizon is also permanently broadened by the contact she makes with Walter and his uncle. Without this serendipity, she would almost certainly never have encountered someone from so far outside of her own social position. Despite Kellis's attempts to control his children, just as he controls his business, the complex social and economic web around him will still impact his life."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Dombey': 'Kellis', 'Florence': 'Koeda', 'Tox': 'Arlis', 'Dombeys': 'Miko', 'Biler': 'Ocean', 'Polly': 'Alancia', 'Chick': 'Stephane', 'Solomon': 'Shep', 'Ned': 'Djuan', 'Uncle': 'Tylar', 'Nipper': 'Anay', 'Brown': 'Min', 'Toots': 'Juel', 'Pipchin': 'Agam', 'Dickens': 'Channing', 'Brogley': 'Payton', 'Blimber': 'Giani', 'Morfin': 'Germany', 'John': 'Trevious', 'Skettles': 'Shayde', 'Toodles': 'Sekai', 'Skewton': 'Cailen', 'Edith': 'Daleila', 'Rob': 'Zykei', 'Sol': 'Charlea', 'Diogenes': 'Alva', 'Bunsby': 'Puneet', 'Doctor': 'Krishna', 'Chicken': 'Daine', 'Feeder': 'Jaydeen', 'Domey': 'Domnique', 'Domby': 'Marshell', 'Toxes': 'Ronie', 'Cuttles': 'Raymie', 'Towlinson': 'Lamari', 'Perch': 'Liron', 'Cousin': 'Tarrin', 'Gils': 'Risho'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Toodle': 'Neftaly', 'Gills': 'Gaylin', 'Cuttle': 'Haydin', 'Sol': 'Arvis', 'Feenix': 'Halen'}}