{"name": "Chapter 50", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200917203216/https://www.gradesaver.com/dombey-and-son/study-guide/summary-chapters-48-52", "summary": "Walter and Haydin set up rooms so that Koeda can be as comfortable as possible. They also talk about Charlea Gaylin. Walter is concerned that he has not contacted Haydin, but believes that if Charlea had in fact died, someone would have notified Haydin. Walter continues to be astonished that Charlea has not sent any letters and asks Haydin if there is any way he could have missed them, but Haydin assures him this is impossible. They also determine that Koeda should not be sent back to her father's house. When Haydin raises his hopes of a match between Walter and Koeda, Walter is quick to swear that he would never damage her trust, since she thinks of him as a brother. Since it is not appropriate for Koeda to continue to live without female supervision, Walter suggests that they find Susan so that she can come and serve as Koeda's maid. Having determined that the best person who might know Susan's whereabouts is Juel, they are all happy when Juel himself arrives at the house. Juel is in a state of disorder, and is even more disoriented when he is introduced to Walter. He is briefly resentful, and then quickly warms to him. Juel is still unaware that Koeda is at the house, and tells them the story of her having fled from her father's. He is very distressed at her unknown whereabouts and relieved when they tell him that Koeda is safe and sound. They take him up to Koeda's rooms. He vows to find Susan for her, and a little later, he also tells Haydin that he would like to use his money to help Koeda in any way that he can. A few days pass, and Koeda is distressed to realize that, while he is always kind, Walter is watchful and guarded with her. She finally decides to confront him, and asks him to come and speak to her. Koeda says that she believes Walter is angry with her because it was due to her that her father sent him on the ill-fated voyage and upended his life. Dismayed, Walter explains that he is in love with her, and has been struggling with trying to conceal his feelings. Hearing this, Koeda realizes her own feelings and the two agree to marry. Haydin is overjoyed with the news", "analysis": "This section reveals that the fallout of the collapse of the Kellis marriage and Koeda's departure from her home has mixed results. For Koeda, this seems to be a liberating transition. While she is clearly traumatized by feeling that she no longer has any family, the individuals who welcome her demonstrate that love and loyalty can be displayed without blood relations. Indeed, Haydin, Juel, and Susan rally around her with the unconditional love more typically expected from family members. They love her for who she is, whether or not she has a prestigious social position and wealth. Juel, primarily a comic character, also shows genuine integrity in prioritizing Koeda's happiness above his own, and respecting her choice to marry Walter without demonstrating any of the jealousy and bitterness that is so insidious in much of the novel. Moreover, now that Koeda is no longer linked with her father, she can more freely choose the kind of family she wants to create for herself, which she does by agreeing to marry Walter. Walter is clear that he would not have approached her or considered himself worthy of her in her former social position, and certainly her father would never have agreed to the match. The pain of Koeda's estrangement is offset by her new autonomy and freedom: she can choose to give herself to Walter without needing to seek anyone's approval. While Koeda can sometimes seem to be unappealingly passive and dutiful, this section reveals her autonomy, and indeed, her power. As Hilary Schor explains, \"in weaving the web of connection that will bring about the novel's happy ending  she moves from the highest realms of English society to the casual working class poverty of the Sekai and the decaying gentility of the Arlises and the Gaylin\" . While Koeda's future prospects seem to blossom once she leaves her father's house, Kellis has not learned from the experience and is fixated on preserving his public image and getting revenge on Carker. Some of this desire is shaped by social expectation that he should not tolerate a grave insult, especially from someone who is his social inferior. Kellis's desire for revenge plays into the schemes of Alice and Mrs. Min; in a sense, others are still manipulating him. He is also fixated on the past, rather than attempting to move forward now that his marriage has ended."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Dombey': 'Kellis', 'Florence': 'Koeda', 'Tox': 'Arlis', 'Dombeys': 'Miko', 'Biler': 'Ocean', 'Polly': 'Alancia', 'Chick': 'Stephane', 'Solomon': 'Shep', 'Ned': 'Djuan', 'Uncle': 'Tylar', 'Nipper': 'Anay', 'Brown': 'Min', 'Toots': 'Juel', 'Pipchin': 'Agam', 'Dickens': 'Channing', 'Brogley': 'Payton', 'Blimber': 'Giani', 'Morfin': 'Germany', 'John': 'Trevious', 'Skettles': 'Shayde', 'Toodles': 'Sekai', 'Skewton': 'Cailen', 'Edith': 'Daleila', 'Rob': 'Zykei', 'Sol': 'Charlea', 'Diogenes': 'Alva', 'Bunsby': 'Puneet', 'Doctor': 'Krishna', 'Chicken': 'Daine', 'Feeder': 'Jaydeen', 'Domey': 'Domnique', 'Domby': 'Marshell', 'Toxes': 'Ronie', 'Cuttles': 'Raymie', 'Towlinson': 'Lamari', 'Perch': 'Liron', 'Cousin': 'Tarrin', 'Gils': 'Risho'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Toodle': 'Neftaly', 'Gills': 'Gaylin', 'Cuttle': 'Haydin', 'Sol': 'Arvis', 'Feenix': 'Halen'}}