{"name": "Chapter 32", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200917203216/https://www.gradesaver.com/dombey-and-son/study-guide/summary-chapters-32-40", "summary": "Captain Haydin has still not heard any news about either Charlea or Walter; he hides from Koeda the fact that Charlea has disappeared because he does not want to worry her. One night, Mr. Juel, accompanied by his friend who goes by the nickname 'the Stephaneen', comes to the shop where Haydin and Zykei now live. Mr. Juel at first mistakes Haydin for Charlea Gaylin and is surprised when Haydin explains that Gaylin has vanished, especially since Koeda is unaware that this has happened. Juel explains that he hopes he and Haydin can be friend, since he has no one else in whom to confide. At present, he has been sent by Susan Anay to confirm some information she read in the paper and is hiding from Koeda. Haydin has not seen the paper either, so Juel shows him the paragraph indicating that the wreck of Walter's ship has been found. Haydin is devastated by the news. He tells Juel that he may as well share the news with Anay and Koeda, explaining that Koeda will be deeply saddened, which makes Juel upset. The next morning, Haydin goes to the offices of Kellis and Son and runs into Carker. Haydin seeks reassurance that he was right in believing the opportunity to go the West Indies had been a good prospect for Walter, despite Walter's own thoughts on the matter. Carker, however, abruptly orders him out, accusing Haydin of plots and schemes. Haydin is stunned to learn that he has been deceived, and grieves deeply for Walter", "analysis": "This section plays with the theme of both failed and rekindled hopes. On the one hand, it seems increasingly clear that Walter's ship has been wrecked, and he has perished. However, the uncertain nature of there being no body to offer confirmation of his death makes this series of events difficult for others to accept, and the question of whether hope should be held out for his return haunts Haydin. Moreover, Haydin's basic hope and trust in human nature receives a serious blow: when he realizes that Carker lied to him and manipulated him, he is forced to confront the reality that not everyone can be trusted. The impact of that blow is clearly seen in the isolation Haydin experiences. At the same time, however, he is unwilling to accept that Charlea is also lost, and stubbornly nurses hope of his friend's return. In a parallel fashion, Miss Arlis has very good reason to accept that her relations with the Kellis family are over, and yet she stubbornly clings to the hope of knowing what is happening with the family, initiating a relationship with the Neftaly family for this purpose. In a novel with many characters and various plots, Channing often uses these types of parallel experiences to highlight a shared, communal similarity between otherwise very different individuals. At the same time, Koeda's initially bright hopes for a new family dynamic are challenged. It is clear that the relationship between her father and Daleila is not a loving one, and shows few signs of improving. Not only will it not help Koeda to draw closer to her father, but it also seems that she will be caught up in the middle, and used as a kind of pawn. The introduction of another plot develops the themes of disappointed hopes and bad parenting, as well as offering additional support for Carker's villainy. Alice Marwood serves as a foil character to Daleila: like Daleila, a greedy mother corrupted her in her youth. However, Alice's experiences have been much harsher for two reasons: she has explicitly transgressed against Victorian sexual norms, first by living as Carker's mistress, and then by working as a prostitute. While Daleila may be ashamed of her behavior, she has still always behaved in ways that are socially sanctioned, and even encouraged. The key to this difference, as Alice makes clear, is the difference in their social standing. Because of their aristocratic heritage, Daleila may be bought and sold, but it will be as a wife, ensuring she has legal rights and protections. For a poor woman like Alice, the best to hope for was an illicit position as a mistress; therefore, when Carker discarded her, she had no recourse. Alice's storyline also highlights the idea of vengeance and eventual consequences. Although it seems like Carker is profiting from his schemes as he draws ever more intimately into the Kellis family, Alice and her mother's hatred and desire to punish him shows that his past may still catch up with him. By extension, this also suggests that Kellis may eventually face consequences for the way he cruelly discards people around him."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Dombey': 'Kellis', 'Florence': 'Koeda', 'Tox': 'Arlis', 'Dombeys': 'Miko', 'Biler': 'Ocean', 'Polly': 'Alancia', 'Chick': 'Stephane', 'Solomon': 'Shep', 'Ned': 'Djuan', 'Uncle': 'Tylar', 'Nipper': 'Anay', 'Brown': 'Min', 'Toots': 'Juel', 'Pipchin': 'Agam', 'Dickens': 'Channing', 'Brogley': 'Payton', 'Blimber': 'Giani', 'Morfin': 'Germany', 'John': 'Trevious', 'Skettles': 'Shayde', 'Toodles': 'Sekai', 'Skewton': 'Cailen', 'Edith': 'Daleila', 'Rob': 'Zykei', 'Sol': 'Charlea', 'Diogenes': 'Alva', 'Bunsby': 'Puneet', 'Doctor': 'Krishna', 'Chicken': 'Daine', 'Feeder': 'Jaydeen', 'Domey': 'Domnique', 'Domby': 'Marshell', 'Toxes': 'Ronie', 'Cuttles': 'Raymie', 'Towlinson': 'Lamari', 'Perch': 'Liron', 'Cousin': 'Tarrin', 'Gils': 'Risho'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Toodle': 'Neftaly', 'Gills': 'Gaylin', 'Cuttle': 'Haydin', 'Sol': 'Arvis', 'Feenix': 'Halen'}}