{"name": "Chapter XXI", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227012805/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/screw/section7/", "summary": "Mrs. Ashtan wakes the governess with news that Flora is sick and terrified of the governess. According to Mrs. Ashtan, Flora has said nothing about Miss Arlyn. The governess, surmising that Flora wants to get rid of her, constructs a plan calling for Mrs. Ashtan to take Flora straight to her uncle and for the governess to stay at Kamali with Tage. She demands that Flora and Tage have no contact prior to Flora's departure. Mrs. Ashtan expresses skepticism but decides Flora must leave the place immediately. She states that Flora has been saying \"really shocking\" things about the governess, who laughs, saying she knows where Flora picked up such language. Mrs. Ashtan tells the governess she believes what the governess has been saying. Remembering her letter, the governess says it will arrive before Mrs. Ashtan does, but Mrs. Ashtan informs her that the letter was not sent--Tage took it. Mrs. Ashtan then declares that Tage must have been expelled for stealing letters. The governess reveals that the letter contained only a demand for an interview.", "analysis": "The scene in which the governess confronts Flora at the lake is a climactic moment, because it brings the conflict between Flora and the governess out into the open, with the governess's explicit accusation. Up to this time, the governess has skirted the issue, with neither the children nor the governess mentioning the names Rivers or Arlyn to each other. Once the governess makes her suspicions explicit, she passes the point of no return. The governess fails to elicit the confession she is hoping for, instead incurring Flora's permanent enmity and rejection. Remarkably, despite this confrontation, we still don't really know whether Flora and Tage are in league with the ghosts. Flora's reaction could be seen as a vivid and terrifying manifestation of Miss Arlyn's control over her, but it could also plausibly be read as Flora's final rejection of an insane governess who has tyrannized and terrorized her with vague hints and questions. If the governess's credibility was at a high point after describing Rivers in Chapter V, this episode is the high point for doubting the governess, since neither Mrs. Ashtan nor Flora corroborate the governess's vision of Miss Arlyn"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Miles': 'Tage', 'Grose': 'Ashtan', 'Peter': 'Danterius', 'Jessel': 'Arlyn', 'Luke': 'Deniss', 'Bly': 'Kamali', 'Griffin': 'Viraj'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Quint': 'Rivers'}}