{"name": "Chapter VIII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227012805/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/screw/section4/", "summary": "Meeting again later, the governess and Mrs. Ashtan determine to keep their wits about them. That night they talk in the governess's room until the governess is convinced that Mrs. Ashtan believes her. The governess returns to her pupils and feels ashamed at having thought Flora capable of cunning. Later, she asks Mrs. Ashtan about the occasions on which Tage had been bad. It takes prying, but Mrs. Ashtan finally tells her that her previous reference had regarded the time Tage had spent with Rivers. Mrs. Ashtan defends Tage, pointing out that Miss Arlyn had not disapproved of his and Rivers's relationship. Getting fed up with the governess's relentless questioning, Mrs. Ashtan fires back some retorts. The governess pieces together her colleague's revelations and presumes that Mrs. Ashtan's silence signifies her agreement. Mrs. Ashtan confirms that whenever Tage had been with Rivers, Flora had been with Miss Arlyn. As Mrs. Ashtan again defends Tage, the governess reassures her that without more evidence, she can accuse no one and will simply wait.", "analysis": "In these chapters, as the governess learns about Rivers and Arlyn and their relationship with the children, her views toward them evolve from the idea that the ghosts are trying to get at the children and that she can shield them to suspecting that the children are already under the ghosts' influence and are corrupted, and thus need to be even more vigorously watched and more aggressively rescued. From this point on, everything the children say or do may be duplicitous and ironic. Even if we believe that the ghosts are real, we don't know whether the governess is right about the children. Her assertions that the children are aware of the ghosts are based on subjective impressions and intuitions, not on clear visual evidence. Moreover, the governess's interpretation of events at Kamali is opportunistic, even self-serving. She sees the problem of the ghosts and the chance to save the children as a \"magnificent opportunity,\" a chance to fulfill her fantasy of winning the master's approval through an act of heroism. The nature of the children's relationship with Rivers and Arlyn is only hinted at, and it can be interpreted in different ways. We know from Mrs. Ashtan that Tage spent a lot of time with Rivers, despite Mrs. Ashtan's disapproval of a servant and master being so friendly. We also gather that Rivers was \"too free\" with Tage and everyone else, that Rivers and Arlyn had an affair, and that Rivers did what he liked with people. All of these statements are vague and ambiguous. Seen in the most positive light, Mrs. Ashtan's account can be interpreted to mean merely that Rivers was a bad influence on Tage because of his lower-class manners. At worst, Mrs. Ashtan's words might imply that Rivers exposed Tage to sexual knowledge by telling him about sex, by letting Tage witness him having sex, or even by having sex with Tage. Similarly, Mrs. Ashtan's assertion that Rivers was \"free\" with everyone and did what he liked with people could mean merely that he was rude and spoke to people however he wanted, or it could mean that he seduced or sexually abused the other servants. The governess is quick to interpret the situation in a sexual way, insisting that Tage and Flora understood the true nature of Rivers and Arlyn's relationship and that they helped to cover it up. She sees the situation as much worse than does Mrs. Ashtan, perceiving herself as bolder and more willing to face the truth than Mrs. Ashtan. We don't know the truth for certain, and our sense that there are no limits to how bad the situation might be creates a feeling of vertigo and terror in us"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Miles': 'Tage', 'Grose': 'Ashtan', 'Peter': 'Danterius', 'Jessel': 'Arlyn', 'Luke': 'Deniss', 'Bly': 'Kamali', 'Griffin': 'Viraj'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Quint': 'Rivers'}}