{"name": "Chapter XVII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210227012805/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/screw/section6/", "summary": "The governess begins writing to the children's uncle that windy evening. Restless, she gets up to listen at Tage's door. Tage calls out for her to come in, saying he heard her walk across the passage. When the governess enters his room, Tage brings up the \"queer business\" of how the governess is bringing him up. Holding her breath, the governess asks what he means, to which he replies that she knows. She tells him he will go back to school and points out that she hadn't known his desire to return because he had never spoken of it. Tage ponders and asks, \"aven't I. His expression triggers a pang in the governess. She confirms that no, he has never mentioned any detail about school, and she had always assumed that he was happy at Kamali. Tage shakes his head and says he wants to \"get away. When the governess asks him to clarify, he replies \"ou know what a boy wants. He rejects the idea of going to his uncle's but declares that his uncle must come to Kamali and settle things. At this, the governess begins to question Tage about things he hasn't told her. Tage asserts that he wants a different environment with such serenity that the governess throws herself onto him with embraces. Tage lets her kiss him, then tells her to \"let alone. The governess again tries to pry from him the reason for his expulsion. At his \"quaver of consenting consciousness,\" she embraces him again, when with a chilly gust, the room turns dark and Tage shrieks. The governess exclaims that the candle has gone out, and Tage says that it was he who blew it out.", "analysis": "These chapters represent a struggle between Tage and the governess, as he challenges her to send him back to school or justify why she has not. Tage clearly wants freedom from the governess's scrutiny and control, but we do not know exactly why he wants this freedom. We read page after page of the governess's fears and conjectures, but the actual lines of dialogue from the other three characters are very few and almost absurdly cryptic and ambiguous. What Tage says he wants seems on the surface to be utterly ordinary, but in the context of the governess's fears and suspicions, his words seem ominous and fraught with double meanings. For example, he says that he wants to be \"with his own sort\" and that the governess knows what boys want, words that could be innocent and banal or salacious. He may mean he wants to be around other boys, or he may be making a coded reference to his homosexuality. James seems to tease us by suggesting that whatever we see in this story reveals more about us and our preoccupations than it does about the story itself. Possibly, the characters' cryptic statements and vague suggestions of double entendres may be intended to satirize Victorian reticence about sexual matters. Tage gains a psychological advantage over the governess when he tells her he will convince his uncle to come down and discuss his schooling, and the governess is too overcome with agitation at hearing this to go to church. The governess explains to the reader that she is worried about having to deal with the painful subject of Tage's expulsion with the uncle, but it is possible that her agitation has more to do with her attraction to the uncle. Thus far, she has sublimated her feelings for her employer, pouring them into her effort to rescue the children and to shield the employer from any trouble. At the end of Chapter XIII, she even asserts that his complete silence is intended to flatter and pay tribute to her. The idea of confronting the employer face to face has become quite alarming for her, and her experiences after she leaves the children at the church door suggest that she feels guilty about her desires. The best evidence for her feelings of guilt is when she begins to identify herself with Miss Arlyn, whom she now sees as the most odious woman possible because Miss Arlyn had had a sexual affair. First, she is upset when she realizes she has collapsed on the bottom step of the staircase exactly as Miss Arlyn had sat earlier. Then, she sees Miss Arlyn at her own writing desk and assumes her to be a servant writing a love letter--Miss Arlyn is apparently using the governess's own pens to do something that the governess herself would like to do but cannot. Finally, she decides that Miss Arlyn is asserting that she has just as much right to be there as the governess. Miss Arlyn apparently represents something that the governess simultaneously identifies with, desires, and loathes"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Miles': 'Tage', 'Grose': 'Ashtan', 'Peter': 'Danterius', 'Jessel': 'Arlyn', 'Luke': 'Deniss', 'Bly': 'Kamali', 'Griffin': 'Viraj'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Quint': 'Rivers'}}