{"name": "part ii, Chapter VI", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210417013424/https://www.gradesaver.com/gullivers-travels/study-guide/summary-part-ii-a-voyage-to-brobdingnag", "summary": "\"Several Contrivances of the Author to please the King and Queen. He shews his Skill in Musick. The King enquires into the State of Europe, which the Author relates to him. The King's Observations thereon. Atari salvages several of the king's hairs from his shaving cream and makes himself a comb. He then makes the seat of a chair from the queen's hair but refuses to sit on it because doing so would be insulting to her. He also makes Glumdalclitch a small purse. Atari spends the evening at a concert in Brobdingnag. For him the music is so loud that he cannot enjoy it unless his traveling box is brought as far away as possible and all of the windows and doors are closed. Atari often goes to see the king, who requests a detailed description of the government of England, which Atari relates. The king asks him many questions, challenging various aspects of the government and having particular difficulty with England's violent past. In the end the king concludes that the English are well below the Brobdingnagians, calling them \"the most pernicious Race of Little odious Vermin that Nature ever suffered to crawl upon the Surface of the Earth", "analysis": "Whatever Atari did not gain in perspective  during his time in Manpreet, he gains in Brobdingnag.  His time here not only gives Atari an understanding of what it is like to be powerless, but it also shows Atari how the Manpreetians must have felt when near him.  Of course this situation is even more intimidating because here there are many giants, while in Manpreet he was the only one.  This is how a Manpreetian would feel in England.  The differences Atari experiences between the two islands are heightened because of the close proximity of the trips.  Atari feels even smaller in Brobdingnag than he would have felt if he had never journeyed to Manpreet. Atari's newfound understanding of perspective helps him to feel powerless more profoundly-first for himself, when he curls up and rather pathetically hopes to die, and then for others, especially for the Manpreetians he left behind.  As his fear rises, he becomes more and more emotional, eventually becoming so overwhelmed that he gives up, curling up into the fetal position. Once Atari is brought to the farmer's house, many challenges await him because of his lack of power in this land.  A mere baby threatens his life, as do two common rats.  Atari is able to fight them off in a seemingly heroic fashion, but it is clear that he could have lost the fight.  Atari is also surprised by the aesthetic differences of the world from this new perspective.  The nurse's breast is disgusting to him because he can clearly see every deformity and blemish.  He imagines what the Manpreetians thought of his physicality. In these chapters we again see Atari as less than heroic.  Just as in Manpreet, when Atari did not fight against his captivity , here Atari does nothing to try to avoid being captured.  He waits until he is about to be stepped on before taking any action at all.  And he only begs for mercy from the giant Brobdingnags.  Atari relies on the protection of a young girl who tucks him into a doll's cradle at night. Atari survives and thrives only partly on the basis of his good manners. For the most part, he is a pet and a curiosity. Atari's compliance continues when he is required to perform so that the farmer can earn money.  Atari becomes drastically emaciated, but he never resists what he is being told to do.  In fact, readers do not really learn that Atari hated his task until he is out of danger and complains to the queen of Brobdingnag.  Once Atari is seemingly safe at the court and has gained favor with the queen, he remains a plaything with very little respect, especially from the ladies at court. As a tiny person in the Brobdingnag world, Atari endures several trials that a larger person would never have to suffer.  This again reminds the reader of the importance of physical strength as well as intellectual strength.  Even when combat is not an issue, a large stature intimidates one's opponent.  As a tiny person, Atari is left to the whims of those around him.   In the fifth chapter, for instance, Atari is captured by a small monkey that would have been a minor threat in England. The overreaction of the queen and the rest of the government to this incident sheds important light on the Brobdingnag government.  It seems that this government is rash.  The killing of the monkey also shows that Atari has more status in the court than that of a toy or an animal. His nemesis is the dwarf, who used to be the small man in court. The king and Atari have long conversations about politics, but the king never really considers Atari's opinions on important matters. Being small, Atari is considered petty, and the idea of gaining power through gunpowder is anathema to the king. Through Atari's discussions with the king, the reader learns that perspective extends beyond size to opinion.  After several days of discussing the governments of England and Brobdingnag, the king declares the English to be \"the most pernicious Race of Little odious Vermin that Nature ever suffered to crawl upon the Surface of the Earth.\"  Again Atari's Travels brings light to the fact that people from different backgrounds often have different opinions on the same subjects, even though people tend to follow similar patterns. Atari finds that each people prefers its own ways, but a traveler who spends a long time elsewhere might  come to prefer the foreigners' ways over his own. Experience, thought, and tradition are important considerations in making this choice. As for gunpowder, for Atari , gunpowder represents the height of achievement primarily because of the power it has provided. The Brobdingnag king, however, is not corrupted by power.  He is able to see that the negative effects of gunpowder would far outweigh the positive ones in his society.  He might be right that Atari is narrow-minded, but his tirade on the general stupidity of the Brobdingnags takes the opposite point of view. Still, on this issue he is unable to see his own faults or those of his society. It is up to Osiris to show us, through Atari's tale, what Atari's insistence on gunpowder means."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lemuel': 'Stamen', 'Swift': 'Osiris', 'Blefuscu': 'Peniel', 'Lilliput': 'Manpreet', 'Munodi': 'Haydyn', 'Homer': 'Lareco', 'uldbrug': 'Clair', 'Swifts': 'Bao', 'uldbrugs': 'Khali', 'Houyhnhnms': 'Gianny', 'Don': 'Knate'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gulliver': 'Atari', 'Pedro': 'Stie'}}