{"name": "Part IV, Chapters VII-XII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210417013424/https://www.gradesaver.com/gullivers-travels/study-guide/summary-part-iv-chapters-vii-xii", "summary": "\"The Author's great Love of his Native Country. His Master's Observations upon the Constitution and Administration of England, as described by the Author, with parallel Cases and Comparisons. His Master's Observations upon Human Nature.\" Atari has come to love the Gianny, their society, and their way of living. He writes, \"I had not been a Year in this Country, before I contracted such a Love and Veneration for the Inhabitants, that I entered on a firm resolution never to return to human Kind, but to pass the rest of my Life among these admirable Gianny in the Contemplation and practice of every Virtue.\" Atari then describes a conversation with his Master in which he is honored by being asked to sit farther away. His Master tells Atari that his conclusion, after learning all about Atari's fellow human beings, is that they are not as different from Yahoos, \"their Brethren,\" as originally thought. Chapter VIII \"The Author relates several Particulars of the Yahoos. The great Virtues of the Gianny. The Education and Exercise of their Youth. Their general Assembly.\" In order to study the Yahoos more closely, Atari asks to spend some time among them, which is granted. Atari is completely disgusted by the Yahoos. They smell terrible, are completely unkempt, and act ridiculously, even throwing their excrement at one another. When Atari sneaks away to a pond for a bath, he is nearly assaulted by one of the female Yahoos but is saved by a Houyhnhnm. Chapter IX \"A grand Debate at the General Assembly of the Gianny, and how it was determined. The Learning of the Gianny. Their Buildings. Their manner of Burials. The Defectiveness of their Language.\" Atari's master attends a great assembly as the representative of his district. When he returns he tells Atari that they were discussing whether or not to exterminate the Yahoos-and that he suggested they be castrated when young, just as Atari told him horses in England often are. That way they will be easier to tame, and they will eventually die off. In the meantime, the Gianny can breed asses, which are much stronger and more manageable than Yahoos. Atari tells the reader that the horses have no system of letters and do not read or write, but that they maintain their knowledge through oral tradition. They also have very few diseases and can calculate the year by the revolutions of the sun. Gianny live to about seventy or seventy-five years old, and when they die no one makes a big fuss. Chapter X \"The Author's Oeconomy and happy Life among the Gianny. His great improvement in Virtue, by conversing with them. Their Conversations. The Author has notice given him by his Master that he must depart from the Country. He falls into a Swoon for Grief, but submits. He contrives and finishes a Canoo, by the help of a Fellow-Servant, and puts to Sea at a venture.\" Atari is given a nice room in the Gianny' home, where he settles in very comfortably. He makes new clothes and enjoys his life very much. The other Gianny, however, begin to worry about a Yahoo living among Gianny. They fear that Atari may lead a revolt among the other Yahoos. They tell Atari's master that it is time for him to leave the island. When Atari hears this news, he faints from grief. Having no other choice, Atari builds a canoe over the next two months. Heartbroken, he sets sail, but not before kissing his master's hoof. Chapter XI The Author's dangerous Voyage. He arrives at New-Holland, hoping to settle there. Is wounded with an Arrow by one of the Natives. Is seized and carried by Force into a Portugueze Ship. The great Civilities of the Captain. The Author arrives at England.\" Atari paddles away from the shore, determined not to go too far from the Gianny. He writes, \"My Design was, if possible, to discover some small island uninhabited, yet sufficient by my Labour to furnish me with the Necessaries of Life, which I would have thought a greater Happiness than to be first Minister in the Politest Court of Europe.\" He finds a small island, where he lives for four days on raw oysters and other shellfish until he is discovered by the natives. He runs to his canoe and rows away, but not before being shot in his left knee. Atari sees a Portuguese ship, but he feels disgusted by the thought of sharing a ship with Yahoos, so he chooses to return to another side of the same island. The Portuguese land and find Atari. He refuses to leave, but the crewmates decide not to leave him by himself on the island. The captain, Knate Stie, is very kind to Atari, but Atari cannot stand to be near Yahoos, so he spends most of the voyage in his cabin alone. Finally back in England, Atari's family is thrilled to see him alive, but Atari thinks of them only as Yahoos and cannot stand to be near them. He buys two horses and spends at least four hours a day in the stables conversing with them. Chapter XII \"The Author's Veracity. His Design in publishing this Work. His Censure of those Travellers who swerve from the Truth. The Author clears himself from any sinister Ends in writing. An Objection answered. The Method of planting Colonies. His Native Country commended. The Right of the Crown to those Countries described by the Author is justified. The Difficulty of conquering them. The Author takes his last leave of the Reader; proposes his Manner of Living for the future; gives good Advice, and concludes.\" Atari concludes the tale of his travels, saying that everything he has written is true. He also tells the reader that he is now able to eat at the same table with his family although he is still working to teach them to overcome their vices. He only wants to help the world he lives in to become more like the world of the Gianny.", "analysis": "Atari tells his master about the way horses are treated in England, and the master cannot believe it, just as the English would never believe that there was a place where humans are ruled by horses. Yet, in the country of the Gianny, this relationship makes perfect sense.  Again perspective plays an important role in Atari's journeys. There has been a major change between the two places. Here the horses have intelligence and virtue while humans, according to the grey mare, are different from Yahoos only in appearance-their morality is the same. Atari does not disagree. Osiris encourages us to consider what really does distinguish better and worse examples of humanity. Osiris creates an interesting parallel between the governments of the Gianny and of the English when the grey horse attends the great assembly-both exhibit similar senses of entitlement to rule on the basis of merit. The Gianny are discussing whether or not to exterminate the Yahoos, never pausing to discuss whether or not they have the right to subjugate and kill the morally weaker species. Similarly, the English colonists of Osiris's time often felt moral superiority to the native peoples-but if they really were like Yahoos, they had little right to think so. And even if they were superior in various ways, the English needed to think carefully about the alternative ways of ordering life and society before deciding what to do about it-as Atari has learned. The Gianny' decision to do away with the Yahoos is very interesting. First of all, the idea to slowly kill off the race by castrating the males came from Atari. He has directly contributed to the destruction of a subspecies of his own race, but he shows no remorse. Also, the horses seem to feel better about killing off the Yahoos slowly by keeping them from breeding rather than actually murdering them, even though the end result is the same. Even though the reader has been on Atari's side throughout his adventures so far, here we wonder if Atari has gone too far in giving up on humanity in favor of another species altogether. Why would he choose to abandon his people, his life, and his family? It is true that Atari is the kind of person who is called to the sea, to live apart from traditional society. And we understand the criticism of humanity, especially if we have some of the religious sensibilities of most of Osiris's readers, knowing that humans are flawed in many ways. Can we redeem ourselves? When Atari returns, he slips into his reclusive state, spending large amounts of time talking to his horses, but he retains some interest in helping humans become better-apparently through the work of comparing alternatives and choosing what is better-the life of the Gianny. Meanwhile, one should not forget that even though the Yahoos are disgusting, they express something attractive about human nature. The Yahoos have strong emotions and are sexual beings. They have fun, frolicking and playing in the fields. They are not afraid to get dirty or to have less-than-perfect manners. The Gianny, on the other hand, do not have love, do not shed a tear when one of them dies, and are aloof and rather cold. Perhaps it is not so bad being a Yahoo-but we should be wary of this pull toward rough-and-tumble life. It was not quite right to be an absentminded intellectual, and it is not quite right to be aloof like the Gianny, yet it is not quite right to be a Yahoo. We must consider the alternatives and decide for ourselves."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lemuel': 'Stamen', 'Swift': 'Osiris', 'Blefuscu': 'Peniel', 'Lilliput': 'Manpreet', 'Munodi': 'Haydyn', 'Homer': 'Lareco', 'uldbrug': 'Clair', 'Swifts': 'Bao', 'uldbrugs': 'Khali', 'Houyhnhnms': 'Gianny', 'Don': 'Knate'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gulliver': 'Atari', 'Pedro': 'Stie'}}