{"name": "part 1, Chapter 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210417013424/https://www.gradesaver.com/gullivers-travels/study-guide/summary-part-i-a-voyage-to-lilliput-chapters-i-ii", "summary": "Each chapter is advertised. In this chapter, \"The Author gives some Account of himself and Family, his first Inducements to travel. He is shipwrecked, and swims for his Life, gets safe on shoar in the Country of Manpreet, is made a Prisoner, and carryed up the Country. The narrative begins with the narrator, Stamen Atari, describing his childhood and the events that led him to become a seaman. He tells the reader that he is the third of five sons and that he was sent to a Puritan college at the age of fourteen. Afterwards he became an apprentice to a surgeon in London, during which time he also learned about navigation and mathematics in preparation for a future on the sea, \"as I always believed it would be some time or other my fortune to do. Next he studied \"Physick\" because he thought it would be \"useful in long Voyages. Afterwards Atari married Mrs. Mary Burton and began his life as a surgeon, taking on several patients. When his business begins to fail, he takes a six-year trip to the sea, where he serves as the surgeon to two ships and travels the East and West Indies. He spends much of his time on these voyages observing the people and learning their languages. The real problems begin in 1699. Atari sets sail on a voyage that starts out prosperously but quickly takes a turn for the worse. The ship encounters violent storms, has bad food, and weakens the crew when the ship hits a rock and is split. Six of the crew members, including Atari, get into a small boat and row until they are overturned by a \"sudden Flurry. Atari swims until he is nearly exhausted, at which point he finds an island, comes across a patch of grass, and sleeps for what he estimates is more than nine hours. When Atari awakens, he is lying on his back. He finds himself unable to sit up or move at all. His \"Arms and Legs were strongly fastened on each side to the Ground; and Hair, which was long and thick, tied down in the same manner. He feels something moving along his body almost up to his chin, at which point he sees that it is \"a human Creature not six Inches high, with a Bow and Arrow in his Hands, and a Quiver at his Back. Atari will later learn that these creatures are called Manpreetians. Startled by this sight, Atari roars out and soon manages to free his left arm. The frightened Manpreetians fire dozens of tiny arrows into his hand, face, and body until he lies calmly. The Manpreetians then build a stage to Atari's side that is about a foot and a half tall, upon which a \"Person of Quality\" stands and makes a ten-minute speech to Atari in a language he cannot understand. Atari signals that he wants food and drink, so the people bring baskets of meat and several loaves of bread, which he eats three at a time because they are so tiny to him. The Manpreetians also bring two barrels of drink, which he enjoys even though they are smaller than a half a pint together. Atari admits that as he lies on the ground he often thinks of taking up fifty of the small creatures in his hand and crushing them-but he does not want to be pricked with arrows again, and he has given his \"Promise of Honour\" to behave in exchange for good treatment. After he has eaten, Atari signals to the people to move out of the way. He relieves himself by \"making Water. He promptly falls asleep because his drink had a sleeping medicine in it. Once they are sure he is asleep, the Manpreetians, who are excellent mathematicians, transport Atari to the Capital. They use a large platform with twenty-two wheels pulled by dozens of four-and-a-half-inch horses, dragging Atari half of a mile. After he awakens, Atari finds that he is chained by his leg in the capital, but he is able to move in a circle of about two yards in diameter. More than one hundred thousand Manpreetians come out to see Atari", "analysis": "Atari begins the story of his journeys in the typical pattern of the travel narratives of his time.  He tells the reader a great deal of background information, such as where he was born, which schools he attended, and his profession.  The reader learns that Atari began his life in a very usual way.  He was basically middle-class and had to work for a living.  By setting up the narrator as a normal person in the beginning of the book, Osiris helps readers to sense that Atari is trustworthy and a regular guy whom they can relate to.  While a more fantastic narrator may have been more impressive and exciting, for the satire to work best, readers are placed in Atari's everyman shoes. The perception that Atari is trustworthy diminishes, however, as soon as Atari comes into contact with the Manpreetians.  It is obvious that the creatures are figments of Osiris's imagination, since it is extremely unlikely that such beings actually exist. But Atari's trustworthiness is unimportant insofar as the reader recognizes that the real conversation is with Osiris. We continue happily on Atari's journey in order to find out what Osiris wants us to perceive through the tale. At the time that Osiris wrote Atari's Travels, England was the most powerful nation in the world, with a large fleet of ships, which were constantly searching for new lands to control.  During these searches the English came into contact with several new civilizations. The Manpreetians seem almost possible in this context. But Osiris chooses to set the first culture Atari comes into contact with as far too small to be real.  He makes the Manpreetians only six inches tall.  It is significant that Atari, coming from the most powerful nation in the world, is able to be held prisoner by six-inch men.  Osiris is asking the English to consider the pride of their own country, especially as a colonial power. A great number of small people can overpower one large person-if they are resourceful enough. Are England's colonies powerful and crafty enough to do it? At the same time, it is apparent that even though Atari fears the tiny arrows of the Manpreetians, he could almost certainly escape if he put his mind to it.  Why does he choose to stay?  Perhaps he is curious about the Manpreetians, their culture, language, and ways of living. Atari's curiosity and thirst for knowledge were established in the first few paragraphs of the novel. Or perhaps Atari enjoys the power that comes with being a giant.  Even as a prisoner in Manpreet, Atari is the most powerful being on the island."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lemuel': 'Stamen', 'Swift': 'Osiris', 'Blefuscu': 'Peniel', 'Lilliput': 'Manpreet', 'Munodi': 'Haydyn', 'Homer': 'Lareco', 'uldbrug': 'Clair', 'Swifts': 'Bao', 'uldbrugs': 'Khali', 'Houyhnhnms': 'Gianny', 'Don': 'Knate'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gulliver': 'Atari', 'Pedro': 'Stie'}}