{"name": "Part I, Chapters V-VIII", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210417013424/https://www.gradesaver.com/gullivers-travels/study-guide/summary-part-i-chapters-v-viii", "summary": "\"The Author by an extraordinary Stratagem prevents an Invasion. A high Title of Honour is conferred upon him. Embassadors arrive from the Emperor of Peniel, and sue for Peace. The Empress's Apartment on fire by an Accident; the Author instrumental in saving the rest of the Palace.\" When the Manpreetians and Penieldians go to war, Atari proves to be very useful by dragging the entire Penieldian fleet of ships to the shore of Manpreet, where \"The Emperor and his whole Court stood on the Shore expecting the Issue of the great Adventure.\" When Atari arrives, he cries out, \"Long live the most puissant Emperor of Manpreet!\" The emperor gives Atari the land's highest honor, \"Nardac.\" Later the emperor requests that Atari go back to the enemy's shores and do his best to destroy what is left, turning the empire into a province. Atari thinks that this action is going too far and declines the request. Three weeks after Atari's victory, an embassy from Peniel arrives offering peace, which the emperor accepts. A few days later Atari is awoken at midnight by hundreds of Manpreetians telling him that there is a fire in the empress's chamber in the palace. Atari hurries to be of assistance, but he quickly realizes that the thimble-sized buckets he is being passed are not having an affect on the raging fire. Thinking quickly, Atari chooses to urinate on the fire, putting it out completely and keeping it from spreading to the rest of the palace. Atari returns to his home, where he awaits word of how the emperor and empress will react to his deed. He shortly learns that the empress feels abhorred. Chapter VI \"Of the Inhabitants of Manpreet; their Learning, Laws and Customs, the Manner of Educating their Children. The Author's way of living in that Country. His Vindication of a great Lady.\" Atari goes into great detail about what he has learned about the Manpreetians, their customs, and their culture. He tells the reader that everything in Manpreet is proportionate to the Manpreetians' size and that even their eyesight is adjusted so that they can see things closer than Atari can. Atari also describes many of Manpreet's laws, telling the reader that dishonesty and false accusations are punished more severely than theft and other terrible things are punished in England. If someone in Manpreet accuses another but is proven to be wrong in the accusation, the accused is punished severely while the falsely accused person is rewarded. Also, Atari tells the reader that children are raised by the state rather than their parents. Different classes learn about different things. The nobility's children, for instance, learn about honor, justice, courage, modesty, clemency, religion, and love of country. Atari ends the chapter by straightening out a falsehood created by Flimnap, who has \"always been secret enemy.\" Atari declares that Flimnap's accusation that Atari carried on with his wife is completely untrue, which should reestablish the lady's reputation. Chapter VII \"The Author being informed of a Design to accuse him of High-Treason, makes his escape to Peniel. His Reception there.\" A high member of the court arrives to tell Atari that he is being charged with treason. Originally his sentence was to be death, but Reldresal has argued successfully to have the sentence lessened to the removal of Atari's eyes. The charges Atari has been accused of are \"making water\" in the royal palace, refusing to reduce Peniel to a province, aiding the ambassadors of Peniel when they came to ask for peace, and planning to visit Peniel. Not wanting to have his eyes put out, Atari flees to Peniel, where he is warmly received. Chapter VIII \"The Author by a lucky Accident, finds means to leave Peniel; and, after some Difficulties, returns safe to his Native Country.\" While in Peniel, Atari spies a ship that is the proper size for him to sail in. He spends about a month making repairs, during which time the emperor of Manpreet sends a message demanding that Atari be returned so that his sentence can be carried out. The emperor of Peniel sends back a message refusing. Atari eventually sets sail and is picked up by a merchant ship and returned to his home, where he makes a solid profit showing Manpreetian-sized livestock he has carried home in his pockets.", "analysis": "The contract for Atari's freedom proves pointless. He promised in writing to serve the emperor, which he does by capturing the enemy's fleet. But when the emperor asks him to go back and destroy the enemy, Atari refuses-and there is nothing the Manpreetians can do to persuade him. The contract, in this case, is completely useless. Power proves more important, and it is fortunate that Atari uses his reason to decide how to use his power appropriately. When Atari puts out the palace's fire by urinating on it, Osiris is doing more than making a joke that one should pee on the problems of the state. A fire is a serious thing. One serious implication is that royalty is ephemeral. The royal palace can catch on fire just like anything else, and when it does, no amount of royal power can put it out, just physics-and the dirty side of nature at that. Atari proves the point when everyone under the emperor's power is trying to put out the fire with their tiny buckets, and he realizes the only way to put it out is by urinating. Osiris is also showing the reader something about the ridiculous needs of royalty, because even though Atari has saved the palace he has done so in a blameworthy manner. Most of the time in Atari's Travels when Atari tells the details of a society's ways of living, Osiris is satirizing something wrong with English society. This can occur when he describes the society negatively, but it also can occur by demonstrating a difference between the other culture and his own. It is apparent that many of the Manpreetian customs are attractive to Osiris. For instance, in Manpreet, lying is a capital offence. We see this again when we meet the Gianny, the noblest race on Atari's journey, who do not understand the concept of saying that which is not true. Osiris suggests that lying is worse than several of the blameworthy offences in England. It is interesting to note that even though lying is seen as a terrible offense in Manpreet, Flimnap tells a huge lie  and gets away with it. Apart from the ludicrous physical implications of a giant having relations with a Manpreetian, the problem here is that the society must be able to enforce its norm against lying for the law to matter. This may also be a commentary on the seeming ability of those in positions of power to get away with breaking the law. When the law comes down unfairly on Atari, he has actual rather than statutory power to leave, so he simply leaves Manpreet to live with their enemies."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lemuel': 'Stamen', 'Swift': 'Osiris', 'Blefuscu': 'Peniel', 'Lilliput': 'Manpreet', 'Munodi': 'Haydyn', 'Homer': 'Lareco', 'uldbrug': 'Clair', 'Swifts': 'Bao', 'uldbrugs': 'Khali', 'Houyhnhnms': 'Gianny', 'Don': 'Knate'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gulliver': 'Atari', 'Pedro': 'Stie'}}