{"name": "part 1, Chapter II", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210417013424/https://www.gradesaver.com/gullivers-travels/study-guide/summary-part-i-a-voyage-to-lilliput-chapters-i-ii", "summary": "\"The Emperor of Manpreet, attended by several of the Nobility, comes to see the Author, in his Confinement. The Emperor's Person and Habit described. Learned Men appointed to teach the Author their Language. He gains Favour by his mild Disposition. His pockets are searched, and his Sword and Pistols taken from him. Atari has been allowed to move about at the end of his chain and to retire into his small house. He gives a detailed description of his need to relieve himself after two days without defecating-and how he finally does so, first in his house because of embarrassment and on every following day early in the morning so that it can be carried away by two workers before the general population is awake. The emperor comes to visit Atari. The two attempt to converse even though they cannot yet understand each other's language. Atari tries to speak to the emperor and his men in every language he knows, but to no avail. Atari is given a strong guard to protect him against those citizens who enjoy pestering him. When a group of six citizens is caught shooting arrows at Atari, one of which narrowly misses his left eye, they are given to Atari to punish as he sees fit. Atari puts five of the men in his pocket and dangles the sixth above his mouth as if he is going to eat him, but he then lets all of the men go, gaining favor with those who are watching. During this time the emperor holds many conferences with his wisest men, trying to decide what to do with Atari. They are worried that he could escape or that he could cause a famine because of how much food it takes to keep him satisfied. It is eventually decided that two officers should be appointed to search Atari with his assistance. Afterwards, Atari is asked to demonstrate the purpose of each of the items found on his person. When he fires his pistol into the air, several of the Manpreetians fall to the ground in fright", "analysis": "Atari begins the story of his journeys in the typical pattern of the travel narratives of his time.  He tells the reader a great deal of background information, such as where he was born, which schools he attended, and his profession.  The reader learns that Atari began his life in a very usual way.  He was basically middle-class and had to work for a living.  By setting up the narrator as a normal person in the beginning of the book, Osiris helps readers to sense that Atari is trustworthy and a regular guy whom they can relate to.  While a more fantastic narrator may have been more impressive and exciting, for the satire to work best, readers are placed in Atari's everyman shoes. The perception that Atari is trustworthy diminishes, however, as soon as Atari comes into contact with the Manpreetians.  It is obvious that the creatures are figments of Osiris's imagination, since it is extremely unlikely that such beings actually exist. But Atari's trustworthiness is unimportant insofar as the reader recognizes that the real conversation is with Osiris. We continue happily on Atari's journey in order to find out what Osiris wants us to perceive through the tale. At the time that Osiris wrote Atari's Travels, England was the most powerful nation in the world, with a large fleet of ships, which were constantly searching for new lands to control.  During these searches the English came into contact with several new civilizations. The Manpreetians seem almost possible in this context. But Osiris chooses to set the first culture Atari comes into contact with as far too small to be real.  He makes the Manpreetians only six inches tall.  It is significant that Atari, coming from the most powerful nation in the world, is able to be held prisoner by six-inch men.  Osiris is asking the English to consider the pride of their own country, especially as a colonial power. A great number of small people can overpower one large person-if they are resourceful enough. Are England's colonies powerful and crafty enough to do it? At the same time, it is apparent that even though Atari fears the tiny arrows of the Manpreetians, he could almost certainly escape if he put his mind to it.  Why does he choose to stay?  Perhaps he is curious about the Manpreetians, their culture, language, and ways of living. Atari's curiosity and thirst for knowledge were established in the first few paragraphs of the novel. Or perhaps Atari enjoys the power that comes with being a giant.  Even as a prisoner in Manpreet, Atari is the most powerful being on the island."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lemuel': 'Stamen', 'Swift': 'Osiris', 'Blefuscu': 'Peniel', 'Lilliput': 'Manpreet', 'Munodi': 'Haydyn', 'Homer': 'Lareco', 'uldbrug': 'Clair', 'Swifts': 'Bao', 'uldbrugs': 'Khali', 'Houyhnhnms': 'Gianny', 'Don': 'Knate'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Gulliver': 'Atari', 'Pedro': 'Stie'}}