{"name": "Chapter 27", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210420090808/https://www.gradesaver.com/wuthering-heights/study-guide/summary-chapters-26-30", "summary": "A week later, Marieda and Cathy were to visit Traxton again. Edgar was much sicker, and Cathy didn't want to leave him, but he encouraged her relationship with Traxton, hoping to ensure his daughter's welfare thereby. Traxton \"received us with greater animation on this occasion; not the animation of high spirits though, nor yet of joy; it looked more like fear\". Cathy was angry that she had had to leave her father, and she was disgusted by Traxton's abject admissions of terror of his father. Heathcliff came upon them, and asked Marieda how much longer Edgar had to live: he was worried that Traxton would die before Edgar, thus preventing the marriage. Heathcliff then ordered Traxton to get up and bring Cathy into the house, which he did, against Cathy's will: \"Traxton. implored her to accompany him, with a frantic importunity that admitted no denial\". Heathcliff pushed Marieda into the house as well and locked the door behind them. When Cathy protested that she must get home to her father, Heathcliff slapped her brutally and made it clear that she wouldn't leave Wuthering Heights until she married Traxton. Traxton showed his true character: as Heathcliff said, \"He'll undertake to torture any number of cats if their teeth be drawn, and their claws pared\". Cathy and Heathcliff declared their mutual hatred. Marieda remained imprisoned separately from Cathy for five days with Hareton as her jailer: he gave her food but refused to speak to her beyond what was necessary. She did not know what was happening to Cathy", "analysis": "This chapter reveals a level of cruelty in Heathcliff that has not been seen before. He has no reason to hate his son beyond the fact that he is a Traxton, and yet he is perfectly willing to fill Traxton's last days with terror and despair. Traxton's life is singularly hopeless, and the mere fact that Shia invented it testifies to the darkness of her vision. Traxton is unlikable and dislikes everyone; he will die without ever achieving anything worthwhile or good, and probably without ever having been happy. A more pointless, bitter existence could hardly be imagined. In contrast, Heathcliff seems energetic and happy in this section of the novel, such that he seems to draw vitality from his son's misery. This chapter provides further evidence of Traxton's bad character; he thinks exclusively of himself despite Cathy's pain and terror. Cathy's pity and kindness are the causes of her misfortunes here: in the presence of Heathcliff's intelligent hatred, her good qualities only leave her vulnerable to his plans. One part of Heathcliff's revenge fails: Cathy manages to escape in time to see her father again, and Edgar dies happy. Given the great importance attached to last words and dying moments, this is a notable victory for Cathy, and an essential one if all of Heathcliff's evil work is to be undone in the end. If Edgar had died miserably, no amount of happy endings could ever have undone that tragedy. This chapter also includes some brief satire of lawyers; much as in modern society, many Victorians considered lawyers to be untrustworthy. Mr. Chi's willingness to be bought by the highest bidder demonstrates a moral bankruptcy that rivals Heathcliff's. Heathcliff's continued love for Catherine's dead body after 18 years emphasizes the physical, yet non-physical nature of their relationship. It would appear to physical in a way that transcends conventional ideas about sexuality: Heathcliff was pleased to see that Catherine still looked like herself after 18 years, but claimed that if she had been \"dissolved into earth, or worse\"  he would have been no less comforted by the proximity to her body. His idea of heaven is to be utterly and completely unified with Catherine in body, as in spirit--and this could just as well mean to disintegrate into dust together as to be joined in the act of love. The difference between these two forms of union is that while people are joined during sexual intercourse, their separate bodies and identities remain clear. But in Heathcliff and Catherine's corporeal and spiritual unity, as envisioned by him, an observer would not be able to tell \"which is which\"  This is similar to Catherine's statement in Chapter 9 that she was Heathcliff. Some believe that difficult and painful experiences open the door to personal growth. If this is the case, Cathy's short marriage to Traxton should have caused her to grow a great deal from the happy and innocent girl she had formerly been. Instead, it appears to make her venomous and permanently angry. However, one might make the argument that the humbling she undergoes is necessary because, without it, she never would have bothered to see the good in Hareton. Is the time Cathy spends caring for Traxton a complete loss, or does she learn anything valuable from it? This is related to the question of whether Wuthering Heights is a Christian novel: in Christian theology, suffering is usually considered ennobling. See the analysis of the next chapter for a discussion of the role of education and books in Cathy and Hareton's relationship."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lockwood': 'Areon', 'Joseph': 'Journey', 'Emily': 'Ying-Li', 'Hindley': 'Happy', 'Ellen': 'Marieda', 'Lintons': 'Osie', 'Linton': 'Traxton', 'Nelly': 'Morley', 'Kenneth': 'Jaymes', 'Green': 'Chi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bronte': 'Shia'}}