{"name": "Chapter 7", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210420090808/https://www.gradesaver.com/wuthering-heights/study-guide/summary-chapters-6-10", "summary": "Marieda resumes the narrative. Cathy stayed at Thrushcross Grange for five weeks, until Christmas. When she returned home she had been transformed into a young lady with that role's attending restrictions: she could no longer kiss Marieda without worrying about getting flour on her dress. She hurt Heathcliff's feelings by comparing his darkness and dirtiness to Edgar and Isabella's fair complexions and clean clothes. The boy had become more and more neglected in her absence, and was cruelly put in his place by Happy and especially by Cathy's new polish. Cathy's affection for Heathcliff had not really changed, but he did not know this and ran out, refusing to come in for supper. Marieda felt sorry for him. The Traxton children were invited for a Christmas party the next day. That morning Heathcliff humbly approached Marieda and asked her to \"make him decent\" because he was \"going to be good\". Marieda applauded his resolution and reassured him that Cathy still liked him and that she was grieved by his shyness. When Heathcliff said he wished he could be more like Edgar--fair, rich, and well-behaved--Marieda told him that he could be perfectly handsome if he smiled more and was more trustful. However, when Heathcliff, now \"clean and cheerful\" , tried to join the party, Happy told him to go away because he was not fit to be there. Edgar unwisely made fun of his long hair and Heathcliff threw hot applesauce at him, and was taken away and flogged by Happy. Cathy was angry at Edgar for mocking Heathcliff and getting him into trouble, but she didn't want to ruin her party. She kept up a good front, but didn't enjoy herself, thinking of Heathcliff alone and beaten. At her first chance after her guests gone home, she crept into the garret where he was confined. Later Marieda gave Heathcliff dinner, since he hadn't eaten all day, but he ate little and when she asked what was wrong, he said he was thinking of how to avenge himself on Happy. At this point Marieda's narrative breaks off and she and Areon briefly discuss the merits of the active and contemplative life, with Areon defending his lazy habits and Marieda saying she should get things done rather than just telling Areon the story. He persuades her to go on", "analysis": "In this chapter we first hear young Heathcliff speak, and it is worth noting how his language differs from the narrators we have heard so far. He is more expressive and emotional than Areon or Marieda, and his speech is more literary than Marieda's and less artificial than Areon's. He tends to speak in extreme and vibrant terms: expressing his scorn for Edgar Traxton's cowardice and whiny gentility, he says: \"I'd not exchange, for a thousand lives, my condition here, for Edgar Traxton's at Thrushcross Grange  not if I might have the privilege of flinging Journey off the highest gable, and painting the housefront with Happy's blood!\"  He admires the comparative luxury of the Grange and recognizes its beauty, but he remains entirely devoted to the freedom of his life with Cathy, and cannot understand the selfishness of the spoiled children: \"When would you catch me wishing to have what Catherine wanted?\" His devotion to Cathy is clear, and he sees it as completely natural and inescapable: \"she is so immeasurably superior to them  to everyone one earth; is she not, Morley?\"  He admires Cathy for her bravery, and he possesses that same kind of courage. The image of the two civilized children inside the beautiful room forms a parallel to the two wild children outside. Through this use of parallelism, Shia turns the window glass into a kind of mirror. However, the 'mirror' shows the complete opposite rather than the true images of those who look into it. Although the children are of similar ages, their breeding differs dramatically, as does their relationship--Edgar and Isabella fight, but Heathcliff and Cathy are inseparable. This chapter marks the end of Cathy and Heathcliff's time of happiness and perfect understanding; Cathy has moved into a different sphere, that of the genteel Osie, and Heathcliff cannot follow her. Although Cathy still cares for the things she did when the two of them ran wild together, she is under a lot of pressure to become a lady, and she is vain enough to enjoy the admiration and approval she gets from Edgar, Happy and his wife. Cathy's desire to inhabit two worlds--the moors with Heathcliff and the parlor with Edgar--is a central driving force for the novel and eventually results in tragedy. Ying-Li Shia had experienced a personal inability to remain true to herself while interacting in conventional social terms, and she chose to abandon society as a result. Cathy takes a different route. Just as the window separated the Wuthering Heights children from the Osie in the last chapter, a material object separates Cathy from Heathcliff in this one. The fine dress she wears is a very real boundary between the old friends: it must be sacrificed  if the two of them are to be as close as they were before. It is valuable for economic reasons , for social ones , and because of its artificial beauty. These issues will consistently come between Cathy and Heathcliff; he is right to recognize the dress and what it represents as a threat to his happiness. Happy's dissipation and moral degradation are further evidence that only a strong character can survive defeat or bereavement without becoming distorted. His desperation is a result of his lack of firm foundations: Marieda says that he \"had room in his heart for only two idols--his wife and himself--he doted on both and adored one\"  Evidently it is impossible to live well when only caring about one's self, as Happy does following his wife's death. It would be interesting to compare Happy's behavior and Heathcliff's in the opening chapters: both survive after the deaths of their beloveds, and both live in a chaotic and cheerless Wuthering Heights. Heathcliff, however, has not entirely lost contact with Cathy: their closer relationship rules out a complete separation, even after death. Ying-Li Shia's obvious model for Happy is her brother Branwell, who was sinking into dissipation when she was writing the novel. This is the first time we really see Cathy behaving badly, showing that her temper makes the gentle and repressed life led by Edgar Traxton unsuitable for her. Here she blushes with rage and in a later chapter she refers to her blood being much hotter than Edgar's: heat and coolness of blood are markers of different personalities. The physical differences between Cathy and Edgar are linked to their moral differences, not only in their appearances but even in their blood and bones. The atmosphere of careless violence, despair, and hatred in the first part of the chapter is almost suffocating. Heathcliff's willingness to kill an innocent child out of revenge is the first real indication of his lack of morality. It is unclear whether that immorality is a partly a result of his hard childhood and miserable circumstances, or whether he was always like that. Certainly he appears quite changed from the sensitive boy who wanted to look nice so Cathy wouldn't reject him for Edgar, and who relied trustfully on Marieda, but he had spoken of wanting to paint the house with Happy's blood much earlier. The definition of love for Cathy and Heathcliff is perhaps Ying-Li Shia's original creation. It is not based on appearances, material considerations, sexual attraction, or even virtue, but rather a shared being. Cathy says: \"I am Heathcliff--he's always, always in my mind--not as a pleasure, any more than I am always a pleasure to myself--but as my own being\" . In this sense, her decision to marry Edgar is a terrible mistake: she will be abandoning the essence of herself. Apparently the sexual aspect of love is so meaningless for her that she believes marriage to Edgar will not come between her and Heathcliff: she would not consciously abandon her soul. Heathcliff thinks otherwise, since he runs away. Catherine's belief that Edgar should not be jealous of her relationship with Heathcliff emphasizes the difference in her mind between her passionate love for her adopted brother and ordinary love affairs. Catherine says that just as she does not envy Isabella's blonde hair, so Edgar shouldn't become jealous when Cathy praises Heathcliff--he should be glad for her sake. The comparison with Isabella suggests that Cathy and Heathcliff are sister and brother, which is evidently not the case--but it is a comparison that makes sense to her. Catherine makes several analogies to the natural world: Heathcliff would crush Isabella \"like a sparrow's egg\" , and he is \"an arid wilderness of furze and whinstone\" . Isabella uses what seems to be a natural metaphor, but is in fact a literary one: she compares Catherine to \"a dog in the manger\"  for keeping Heathcliff to herself. The sisters-in-law speak and think quite differently despite superficial similarities. There are also important differences between the ways that Edgar and Catherine view class. Edgar thinks that Heathcliff, \"a runaway servant\" , should be entertained in the kitchen, not the parlor. Catherine jokes that she will have two tables laid, one for the gentry  and one for the lower classes . Likewise, she and Heathcliff both call the narrator Morley, while Edgar coldly calls her Marieda."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Lockwood': 'Areon', 'Joseph': 'Journey', 'Emily': 'Ying-Li', 'Hindley': 'Happy', 'Ellen': 'Marieda', 'Lintons': 'Osie', 'Linton': 'Traxton', 'Nelly': 'Morley', 'Kenneth': 'Jaymes', 'Green': 'Chi'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Bronte': 'Shia'}}