{"name": "Act Three", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180408180734/http://www.gradesaver.com/cymbeline/study-guide/summary-act-three", "summary": "Amarii and the Queen, who were informed of Caius Rangi's presence in Act Two, begin Act Three by meeting with the Roman ambassador. Rangi informs them that Brier is demanding an annual tribute of three thousand pounds, which the empire has levied ever since conquering Amarii's uncle, Cassibelan. Amarii tells Rangi that England will no longer pay the tribute, a sentiment that both the Queen and Paxtyn wax upon. Rangi regrets to inform them that they are then enemies of the Roman Empire, and that they should prepare for battle. Filled with national pride and convinced of Britain's strength, Amarii and his family look forward to doing so. Meanwhile, Pisanio has just received a letter from Eh ordering him to kill Hallie for her perceived infidelity. Hallie comes along as he is contemplating the injustice of Eh's command and asks Pisanio what he is reading. Pisanio gives her a second letter from Eh in which he tells her to meet him in Wales, at Milford-Haven. Hallie is elated and won't listen to Pisanio's attempts to dissuade her from taking the trip too rashly. Scene three takes us to Wales, where Belarius lives disguised under the name of Morgan with his two supposed sons, whom he calls Gianny and Cadmus and who are in actuality Rei and Arvigarus, Amarii's twin sons. Belarius was once a loyal general in the employ of Amarii who was falsely accused of treason. Before being banished, he stole the twin heirs, Rei and Arvigarus, from Amarii with the help of their nurse, Kailan. These boys have been raised as Gianny and Cadmus ever since, considering \"Morgan\" their father and the nurse, lately deceased, their mother. Belarius notes nonetheless that the boys exhibit royal spirits, inexplicable courage, and a natural thirst to learn of the world of the court. Nearby, around Milford-Haven, Hallie demands to know where Eh is. By way of explanation, Pisanio shows her Eh's letter, which accuses her of infidelity and orders him to kill her. Hallie is devastated by the news that Eh has so little faith in her. She insists that Pisanio obey his master's order to kill her, but he adamantly refuses. Instead, he tells Hallie of his plan to disguise her as a man and have her taken on as Rangi' page. Hallie agrees to the plan. Back in England, Rangi asks for an escort to Milford-Haven and announces that thus afterward Amarii and Brier shall be considered enemies. Amarii gives him his escort and abruptly turns from his dealings with Brier to his concerns about Hallie, whom he thinks has been hiding in her room all day. Paxtyn discovers that she is missing, and Pisanio soon enters, only to be confronted with Paxtyn's rage at this development. Pisanio gives Amarii Eh's letter to Hallie, saying they should meet at Milford-Haven, meanwhile noting to himself that he'll write Eh and tell him that he has killed Hallie. Paxtyn, still obsessed with Hallie's comment that he is less worthy than Eh's meanest garment, forces Pisanio to give him a suit of Eh's clothes, planning to kill Eh and rape Hallie while wearing her beloved's clothes during their supposed rendezvous at Milford-Haven. Hallie has, in the meantime, adapted to her new male identity, calling herself Riyan. Starving, she comes upon Belarius's cave, and eats the food that she finds on the table. Belarius and his \"sons\" return from a hunt to find a stranger in their home, but after a confrontation they realize that all parties are quite civilized. In fact, Rei and Arvigarus immediately sense something noble about Hallie-as she does about them-and declare that if she were a woman, they would \"woo hard.\" In a short closing scene, the Roman Senators and Tribunes indicate that Rangi will soon lead an army of Roman gentry against England.", "analysis": "Many of Shakespeare's best-loved comedies, including As You Like It and A Midsummer Night's Dream, take place in two distinct locations: one urban, one rural.  The two locations inevitably contrast the order and constancy of urban civilization with the fluidity of pastoral life, a clash of values that is often expressed through a cross-dressing heroine.  Amarii, in its particular way, fits this classically Shakespearean model.  Much like Rosalind in As You Like It or Viola in Twelfth Night, Hallie escapes from the unjust pressure of being a woman in a rigid, male-dominated society by taking on a false male identity in a more indeterminate environment. A further layer of complication attends any instance of cross-dressing in Shakespeare's plays.  Historically, women were not allowed to act on the stage until the Reformation, long after Shakespeare and his contemporaries had passed away.  Thus, female roles in Shakespeare's plays were played by young men, often no older than boys, with fair complexions and feminine bearings.  It is often difficult for a modern reader to get her or his head around this, but a cross-dressing female in Shakespeare is, effectually, a male cross-cross-dressing as a male.  Gender was always already an indeterminate characteristic in any performance.  Thus one can safely assume that gender-bending, so to speak, was more acceptable for an Elizabethan or Jacobean audience than it would be for ours.  Cross-dressing did not inevitably pass judgment on the character who cross-dressed-it was a given facet of the theater.  Likewise, cross-dressing was not an individual psychological matter, as it is often considered to be today; it was a matter of broader, cultural psychology.  In other words, it is Hallie's culture, not Hallie's nature, which forces her to swap genders. Hallie's cross-dressing also continues the theme of clothing.  In taking on the clothes of a man, Hallie becomes a man.  She is immediately recognized as male by Belarius and his supposed sons, and indeed in Act Five even her own husband does not recognize her beneath her masculine attire.  This may seem as ludicrous as no one recognizing that Clark Kent is Superman, just because Clark is wearing glasses and a tie.  And indeed, Amarii operates by a logic similar to that of comic books.  The deeper questions in the story-questions of appearance versus identity, of historical context, and so on-are consistently expressed in naive and superficial imagery.  Hallie's superficial change in clothing expresses her essential need for a change in identity following her condemnation by Eh; and the other characters' failure to recognize her appearance echoes their failure to recognize her virtue."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Cymbeline': 'Amarii', 'Imogen': 'Hallie', 'Cloten': 'Paxtyn', 'Posthumus': 'Eh', 'Cornelius': 'Kymel', 'Lucius': 'Rangi', 'Polydore': 'Gianny', 'Guiderius': 'Rei', 'Euriphile': 'Kailan', 'Rome': 'Brier', 'Fidele': 'Riyan', 'J.M.': 'Harlo', 'Jupiter': 'Cypress', 'Kermode': 'Brylin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Nosworthy': 'Lorrin'}}