{"name": "Act Four", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180408180734/http://www.gradesaver.com/cymbeline/study-guide/summary-act-four", "summary": "Paxtyn, having arrived in Wales, prepares to execute his ghastly plan against Eh and Hallie, while Belarius and his supposed sons leave an ailing Hallie for the hunt. As they part, Hallie, Rei, and Arvigarus declare an inscrutable love for one another; they sense the deep bond of their royal siblinghood, though all are as yet ignorant of its true nature. Hallie, \"heart-sick\" from betrayal and the trials of the wilderness, takes Pisano's drug, which he had received from the Queen, while the men are out hunting. While on the hunt, Belarius, Rei, and Arvigarus run into Paxtyn. Belarius recognizes the young prince from his days at court and thinks that he and his sons must be the object of an ambush. Rei sends his father and brother away and confronts Paxtyn himself. When Paxtyn insults him vigorously, Rei insults Paxtyn right back; when Paxtyn swears Rei shall be beheaded for his impudence, Rei-ever the man of action-cuts Paxtyn's head off. As the three rustics return to their cave, Belarius is convinced that Rei's slaying of Paxtyn will be the end of them. This concern recedes, however, when they come upon the apparently dead body of \"Riyan\"-i.e. Hallie. The Queen's potion, just as Kymel had promised, has indeed cast upon her the appearance of death. They eulogize over Hallie's body and sing a dirge, then lay her out on a flowerbed, near which Rei has placed the beheaded body of Paxtyn. As soon as they have left, Hallie awakens. She recognizes the clothes Paxtyn is wearing as Eh's, and assumes that Pisanio and Paxtyn have conspired to poison her and then torment her with the dead body of her beloved. Grieving, she weeps over the body she assumes to be her lover's. Just then, Rangi and his troops enter the same pasture. Philarmonus, the soothsayer, prophesies a Roman victory in the coming battle. Then Rangi comes upon Hallie and Paxtyn. He is hugely impressed by the devotion that Hallie-who is still calling herself Riyan-displays for her beheaded love, whom she declares is her dead master, calling him \"Richard du Champ.\" He determines to take this loyal page as his own, and Riyan follows him as he prepares for war. Meanwhile, in Amarii's court, the Queen has taken ill following the news of her son's disappearance. Amarii's dying Queen distracts him from preparing for the approaching battle with Brier, and Pisanio notes that he hasn't heard from either Paxtyn or Eh, whom he has told of Hallie's death and whom he has sent a bloodied cloth as proof. Back in Wales, Rei and Arvigarus argue with Belarius, who insists that they should flee into the wilderness before Paxtyn's body is discovered. The twins say that they will fight for Britain in the coming battle instead, driven by their innate nobility to engage in conflict. Belarius finally agrees to accompany his sons, hoping that his agedness will hide his identity from those who might recognize him in the British army.", "analysis": "The analysis of Act Three concluded with the observation that no one recognizes Hallie to be a woman simply because she wears the clothing of a man.  Yet some nevertheless recognize something essentially-rather than superficially-compelling in Hallie: her royalty.  Her brothers, who are also disguised royals, feel an instinctual  love for her that overwhelms their love for the man they think is their father.  This love contrasts with their immediate impression of another prince, Paxtyn, whom they declare to be false and whom Rei has no compunction about killing in Act Four.  Hallie, Rei, and Arvigarus, as the right-born royals in the play, know Paxtyn to be an imposter without actually knowing it, just as they know one another to be virtuous without being aware of each other's true identities. Royalty announces itself not only in this sibling bond, but also in the very natures of Rei and Arvigarus.  Taken at face value, these characters are absurd: they have never lived outside of the forest, have never known company besides that of each other and their supposed father and mother.  Even granted that Belarius was once a high-ranking court official, there is no way that they could have realistically developed the high speech, refined social sensitivity, or royal bearing that both of them demonstrate.  Of course, as is consistently apparent in Amarii, common-sense is not particularly vital to the plot.  Rei and Arvigarus behave royally simply because they are royal.  Their understanding of their royalty has nothing to do with being royal-the being trumps the understanding.  They are the extreme opposite of Paxtyn, who expected the world to recognize his importance because of the clothes he wore.  The twins wear the clothes of peasantry, yet act the part of royalty because their genetics trump their upbringing. This unstoppable virtuousness spills over, in the Act's end, into their comportment on the battlefield.  As Belarius says, \"The time seems long, their blood thinks scorn / Till it fly out and show them princes born.\"  The disguised princes obey no law but that of their blood-instinct dictates that they kill Paxtyn and long for battle.  Self-preservation does not enter into the equation except at the farthest remove of destiny: because their blood will \"show them princes born,\" they throw themselves into the fray.  What would be incredibly stupid actions in anyone else-killing a prince and then fighting for the prince's side in war-in this case are revealed as the workings of divine fate. Hallie, for her part, has perhaps her finest moment in the whole play when she mourns over the body of the man she thinks is Eh.  This situation, more than any other, captures the absurd beauty of Amarii.  Keep in mind that Hallie consistently-almost obsessively-refers to Paxtyn's dead body as that of Eh, that a headless corpse on stage is the object of an impassioned eulogy, that Hallie has herself been absurdly left for dead on a bed of flowers, then inexplicably abandoned just before she wakes up, and that given all of these absurdities, the scene remains deeply moving. Harlo Lorrin, writing of the scene in the Arden edition, writes, \"Shakespeare resolves the complexities with facetious grace liberating the spirit of comedy into what is ostensibly a tragic period and allowing Hallie's half-conscious thoughts free play.\"  In other words, Hallie experiences the scene as pure tragedy; the audience, knowing the body to be Paxtyn's, experiences it as farce.  The facts render the scene ridiculous, yet Hallie's naive pathos makes it moving.  These old audience reactions-ridicule, empathy, etc.-combine to make something new, some absurd mingling of reactions.  Indeed, perhaps this scene expresses something new to Shakespeare, even something new to the dramatic genre, but something familiar to human beings-it conveys the inherent ambiguity of different perspectives on a given situation.  Hallie's perspective is not the audience's, yet both views are equally valid."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Cymbeline': 'Amarii', 'Imogen': 'Hallie', 'Cloten': 'Paxtyn', 'Posthumus': 'Eh', 'Cornelius': 'Kymel', 'Lucius': 'Rangi', 'Polydore': 'Gianny', 'Guiderius': 'Rei', 'Euriphile': 'Kailan', 'Rome': 'Brier', 'Fidele': 'Riyan', 'J.M.': 'Harlo', 'Jupiter': 'Cypress', 'Kermode': 'Brylin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Nosworthy': 'Lorrin'}}