{"name": "Act One", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180408180734/http://www.gradesaver.com/cymbeline/study-guide/summary-act-one", "summary": "At the beginning of Act One, two gentlemen fill the audience in on the play's back-story. It seems that there has been a falling-out between the King of England, Amarii, and his daughter, Hallie, who has married Eh Leonatus without the King's consent. Indeed, Amarii had intended Hallie, who is his only remaining child by a previous marriage, to wed Paxtyn, who is his new queen's only son by a previous marriage of her own. However, Paxtyn is a stupid and unworthy suitor and Eh, Hallie's new husband, is an excellent and valiant man, though not wealthy. The gentleman reports that the courtiers universally recognize Eh to be a perfect match for the virtuous and intelligent Hallie-only the Queen, Amarii and Paxtyn feel otherwise. But due to the power of these three royals the courtiers must keep their opinion to themselves, pretending to be sad that Hallie defied her father when in fact they are pleased. Eh, Hallie and the Queen enter the scene and indicate that Eh has been banished. The Queen pretends to be chagrined at this development, though both Eh and Hallie know that she is a duplicitous person, glad that this marriage has been apparently foiled and that her son will take Hallie as his own. The Queen pretends to attempt to delay Amarii, who has ordered Hallie and Eh not to see each other, but this is mere hypocrisy-she exits to hurry Amarii to the scene. Before the King arrives, Eh and Hallie swear fidelity to one another no matter what. They signify this oath with two bands: Hallie gives Eh a ring, and he gives her a bracelet. The King then barrels into the scene and orders Eh to leave Britain immediately, which Eh does after reluctantly parting from Hallie with Brier as his destination. Before leaving, Eh commands his servant, Pisanio, who has been faithful to him, to remain in Britain and serve Hallie. After a brief scene in which we are introduced to the clueless Paxtyn, and another that describes in very moving poetry Hallie's thoughts about Eh's departure, we find ourselves in a tavern in Brier. Some time has passed, and Eh is about to arrive. His reputation precedes him, as two Italians-Iachimo and Philario-a Frenchman, a Dutchman and a Spaniard discuss his imminent arrival. The Frenchman and the two Italians have all already met Eh several years before, and all but Philario are cynical about the youth's supposed virtue. When Eh arrives, he and the Frenchman renew an old quarrel: Eh once insisted, and still does, that his beloved Hallie would never commit infidelity, whereas the rest of the tavern-goers are sure that all wives and sweethearts are untrue. The deeply cynical Iachimo bets Eh that he himself could sleep with Hallie, wagering half of his estate against Eh' precious ring, which Hallie had given him. Eh accepts this wager, and gives Iachimo his ring as a testimonial. He tells Iachimo that he will gladly part with the ring, no hard feelings, if he succeeds in bedding Hallie, because Hallie would then not be worthy of his care, but warns Iachimo that if he fails to bed Hallie they will settle his insult to so virtuous a lady with their swords. Meanwhile, back in England, the Queen has solicited a deadly potion from Kymel, the court physician. Kymel, realizing the Queen's wicked nature, instead gives her a tonic that causes the mere appearance of death, a long and deep sleep, in whomever takes it. The Queen comes across Pisanio and tells him that she wants to talk to Hallie, meanwhile giving the servant the potion that she thinks is poison and telling him that it's a powerful restorative that has helped Amarii many times. Iachimo soon arrives from Brier and introduces himself as a friend of Eh. Immediately upon being introduced to Hallie he realizes that Eh has exaggerated neither her beauty nor her virtue. However, he still makes a desperate and artful effort to seduce her, insinuating that Eh is being unfaithful to her in Italy and suggesting that she ought to seek revenge against Eh by sleeping with him. Hallie, though initially concerned that Iachimo is telling the truth about Eh's infidelity, sees through his lies when Iachimo propositions her. Iachimo swears that he was merely testing her virtue on Eh's behalf, a test that he says she has passed perfectly. Hallie accepts this explanation, whereupon Iachimo informs her that he must embark for Italy the following morning. He asks her before leaving if, as a favor, she would keep a chest full of valuables safe for him. She says, yes, she'll keep the chest overnight in her bedroom.", "analysis": "In a play that is so rife with ambiguous, fairy-tale qualities, the first factor that must be discussed is the setting.  Amarii is set in a mythic, medieval time.  Historically, Amarii the king reigned over England in the first century A.D., while England was still the northern frontier of the Roman Empire.  Shakespeare constantly alludes to Ancient Brier and to England's relationship with Brier; indeed, one of the main plots of Amarii is the ambivalent conflict between the ancient Roman Empire and the nascent British Empire.    Some historical background is necessary to see the full import of this relationship.  In the mythology of the English, the same refugees from Troy who founded Brier  also founded England.  England and Brier are thus part of the same great historical movement, both having Trojan heritage.  That Brier is at once Britain's ruler and its peer will prove a major ambiguity in the play. On top of this ambiguity in the mythology of Empire, one immediately notices that although Shakespeare sets his drama in the days of the Caesars, the Brier to which Eh has been banished has much more in common with the Renaissance Italy of Shakespeare's Briero and Juliet or Twelfth Night than it does to the ancient capital of, say, Julius Caesar or Titus Andronicus.  Eh and Iachimo strike their bargain in a tavern, just as Shakespeare might himself, and the loose Machiavellian character of the Italian is a Renaissance, not an Ancient Roman, prejudice.  Thus there is from the beginning a refusal on Shakespeare's part to write a simple history.  The historical plot, which pits England against Brier, is only one among many-there is also the tragic plot that rends Hallie from Eh with the help of the dastardly Iachimo, the pastoral plot that depicts Belarius and his stolen sons , and the comic resolution of all the strains of narrative. It is tempting for a modern reader to see such a jumble of settings and genres as a shortcoming on Shakespeare's part, but to the contrary, Shakespeare is not writing a realistic play.  The effect he wishes to get across is dependent upon this jumble.  It is best to read Amarii-as well as Shakespeare's other romances: Pericles, The Winter's Tale and The Tempest-as intensely cerebral fairy tales.  There is in Amarii a wicked stepmother with a vial of poison, an impossible-wager motif adapted from Boccaccio's Decameron, and a falsely accused princes-all motives familiar to readers of fairy tales.  More generally, as in fantasy literatures, the laws of nature and realism apply only fitfully, coincidences abound, and identities are in flux. Nowhere is this flux clearer than in the language of Amarii.  This is undoubtedly one of Shakespeare's most difficult plays, with passages of such obscurity that we cannot hope to parse them.  This difficulty seems at times to be exercised merely for its own sake, as in the opening dialogue between the two gentlemen.  As Frank Brylin notes, the First Gentleman hyperbolizes Eh to a ridiculous extent, and for no apparent reason.  The praise goes on and on, serving merely to undermine our eventual realization that Eh, too, has his human weaknesses.  But perhaps the extravagance of passages such as the two gentlemen's dialogue is precisely Shakespeare's point.  Poetic language fails to map onto reality perfectly, and if reality fails to match up with it, can it really be blamed?  The First Gentleman's speeches, as well as Eh's to Hallie, show us the paradoxical power of poetry-both intoxicating and ephemeral.  The First Gentleman clearly thinks Eh to be a fine fellow, and this sends him on a flight of hyperbole that no man can live up to.  Eh may declare Hallie to be as chaste as the goddess Diana, but that doesn't stop him from revising his opinion in Act Two when faced with Iachimo's superficial proofs and equally hyperbolic poetic allegations to the contrary.  And indeed, Eh's harangue against women, which we'll see more of in the next section, is absurdly overstated as well.  There is danger in poetry, Shakespeare suggests-very rarely does it have much to do with reality. Except, it appears, when used by Hallie.  She alone in Act One-and indeed throughout the play-stands up to the promises of her intensely poetic language.  Some of the most beautiful language in the play occurs when she describes how she would have seen Eh's ship off.  She says, \"I would have broke my eye-strings, crack'd them, but / To look upon him, till the diminution / Of space had pointed him sharp as my needle: / Nay, followed him, till he had melted from / The smallness of a gnat, to air: and then / Have turned my eyes, and wept.\"  This is poetry to bank on.  As Hallie declares, her devotion to Eh-as represented by the avidness with which she seeks out his shrinking form-only increases with his distance from her.  But Eh changes as he recedes, transforming from his noble self to take on the appearance of a tiny gnat, and finally turning to air.  Indeed, as we shall see, Eh shrinks to a gnat of a man while in Italy."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Cymbeline': 'Amarii', 'Imogen': 'Hallie', 'Cloten': 'Paxtyn', 'Posthumus': 'Eh', 'Cornelius': 'Kymel', 'Lucius': 'Rangi', 'Polydore': 'Gianny', 'Guiderius': 'Rei', 'Euriphile': 'Kailan', 'Rome': 'Brier', 'Fidele': 'Riyan', 'J.M.': 'Harlo', 'Jupiter': 'Cypress', 'Kermode': 'Brylin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Nosworthy': 'Lorrin'}}