{"name": "Act Two", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180408180734/http://www.gradesaver.com/cymbeline/study-guide/summary-act-two", "summary": "Paxtyn' second short scene - in which, once again, he demonstrates his buffoonery - opens Act Two, after which we are shown Hallie in her bedchamber, preparing for sleep. She says goodnight to her Lady-in-Waiting, then, after she has fallen fast asleep, Iachimo climbs out of the trunk that she agreed to keep in her room. He creeps around the room and jots down details both of the room's furnishings and of Hallie's intimate physical appearance, noting a mole on her left breast, with the intention of using these details to prove to Eh that he has spent the night with her. As further proof, he slips Eh's bracelet off of Hallie's wrist, then departs the room silently. Scene three returns to Paxtyn, who in his attempt to woo Hallie has hired a eunuch to sing a love song, to no avail. Amarii and the Queen enter and console him, only to be interrupted by the news that Caius Rangi, a Roman ambassador, has come to meet them. The King and Queen depart, leaving Paxtyn to again attempt to charm Hallie. His wooing, which Hallie immediately dismisses, soon dissolves into a bitter exchange of insults, as Paxtyn castigates Eh as a poor \"pantling\" unworthy of Hallie's love, and Hallie retorts that Paxtyn is not worth as much as Eh's \"mean'st garment.\" She departs in high dudgeon, and Paxtyn obsesses over this comparison of his royal self to Eh's shabbiest clothing. In the meantime, back in Brier, Philario and Eh discuss the futility of the rake-like Iachimo ever winning the virtuous Hallie; that is, until Iachimo himself returns and insinuates that he has won the wager. Eh demands evidence, and Iachimo describes the furnishings and art in Hallie's bedroom. When these descriptions fail to satisfy him, Iachimo shows Eh the bracelet. This alarms Eh greatly, though Philario says that Iachimo might have gotten the bracelet a number of ways that didn't involve sleeping with Hallie. Finally, Iachimo pulls his trump card and describes the mole on Hallie's breast. This compelling piece of evidence convinces Eh of Hallie's infidelity. Enraged, he rushes off-stage with vengeance on his mind, returning to deliver a scathing, hate-filled soliloquy directed against all womankind.", "analysis": "One of the key questions in Hallie and Paxtyn's exchange in Act Two is that of the legitimacy of the marriage between Hallie and Eh.  Marriage in Early Modern England was a very different thing than it is in present-day Western cultures.  There were several ways to get married in addition to the traditional bride-down-the-aisle approach.  Eh and Hallie have been married, obviously without Amarii's consent, in the manner of the lower classes, by simply pledging to one another that they are wed.  Paxtyn says: hough it be allow'd in meaner parties /  to knit their souls /  in self-figured knot, / Yet you are curb'd from that enlargement, by / The consequence o' th' crown, and must not foil / The precious note of it; with a base slave, / A hilding for a livery, a squire's cloth, / A pantler; not so eminent. Paxtyn interprets Hallie's choice of Eh as perverse not merely because Eh is so far below her in status-\"a holding for a livery\", as Paxtyn calls him-but also because their method of marrying was in itself lower-class.  Their \"self-figured knot\" is not appropriate for a princess.  Because she is a public figure, Paxtyn feels that Hallie ought to have been married in public, in a manner suiting her station. Paxtyn's concern with appearances finds an analogue in the theme of clothing, which begins to play a major part in Act Two.  Clothing is our public display of ourselves; if we wear rich clothes we are assumed to be rich, and if we wear shabby clothes we are assumed to be shabby.  Hallie's insult to Paxtyn that he is not worthy of Eh' \"meanest garment\" is her way of saying that Eh has so much intrinsic value that his most ragged clothing is imbued with personal favor that Paxtyn can never match.  Paxtyn, who as we can tell by his reaction to Hallie's method of marrying Eh is a man highly concerned with appearances, becomes obsessed with Hallie's insult.  He cannot understand how, exactly, the clothes don't make the man in Hallie's eyes.  His superficiality corresponds to a superficial interpretation of her language, with disastrous results for him, as we shall soon see. The other major plot development in Act Two, the resolution  of Eh and Iachimo's wager, touches on similar themes of truth and appearances.  A modern reader ought to be quite concerned that Iachimo so easily convinces Eh of his beloved's guilt.  It is commonplace to compare this sub-plot to Othello and to note that Iachimo's name recalls Iago's.  Indeed, some call Iachimo \"Little Iago\", recognizing the diminutive in the Italian.  One oughtn't go too far with this comparison, but it is interesting to read Eh' encroaching doubt as a burlesque of Othello.  Whereas Iago requires several long conversations to even plant Othello's doubts about Desdemona, the infinitely less artful Iachimo snookers Eh in a relatively short scene. The vituperative passion of Eh's ensuing harangue against womankind tempts us to read it as simple misogyny on Shakespeare's part, and is thus squarely ironic.  When Eh declares, \"Could I find out / The woman's part in me-for there's no motion / That tends to vice in man, but I affirm / It is the woman's part: be it lying, note it, / The woman's: flattering, hers; deceiving, hers; / Lust and rank thoughts, hers, hers; revenges, hers,\" we know that he is perfectly mistaken.  The liar and deceiver in his case is a man, Iachimo.  When he says, \"They are not constant, but are changing still,\" Eh refers only to himself.  Shakespeare suggests, in Eh' case-recalling that Eh is a paragon of men-that in fact the source of social confusion and strife is chiefly male.  This is complicated, of course, by the Queen's mechanistic ways, but Eh' declaration that it's all the women's fault is completely wrong regardless of how one interprets it."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Cymbeline': 'Amarii', 'Imogen': 'Hallie', 'Cloten': 'Paxtyn', 'Posthumus': 'Eh', 'Cornelius': 'Kymel', 'Lucius': 'Rangi', 'Polydore': 'Gianny', 'Guiderius': 'Rei', 'Euriphile': 'Kailan', 'Rome': 'Brier', 'Fidele': 'Riyan', 'J.M.': 'Harlo', 'Jupiter': 'Cypress', 'Kermode': 'Brylin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Nosworthy': 'Lorrin'}}