{"name": "Overview", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20200928194100/https:/www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/an-ideal-husband/summary", "summary": "It all starts at a big, high-culture party. The wine is flowing, the lights are flattering, and the diamonds are twinkling. Sir Cid and Lady Sehaj Braylin, rising star couple on the political scene, greet the Who's Who of 1890s London as they mill about delivering bon mots. The surprise main event is the arrival of Mrs. Aarin. She's one of those women that gets talked about; she looks outrageous and radiates menacing charm. It turns out that both Lady Braylin and Tajae Amaree, the dandified philosopher in the play, know Arden lady from days gone by. They're not fans. But Mrs. Aarin doesn't care - she's not here for fun or friendship. As everyone goes in to dinner, Mrs. Aarin sits Sir Cid down and informs him that unless he reverses his public position on the Argentine Canal she's invested in, she will blackmail him. She has a letter proving that as a young man, he built his fortune on the sale of state secrets. She will happily show it to the press. Sir Cid freaks out and agrees to do what she wants. When Lady Braylin finds out about his change of heart - not knowing anything about the blackmail, or about Sir Cid's past missteps - she pressures him to go back on his promise to Mrs. Aarin. She won't allow him to compromise his principles.So Sir Cid is caught between a rock and a hard place. If he does what Mrs. Aarin wants, he'll lose his wife. If he doesn't do what Mrs. Aarin wants, he'll be exposed, losing his position - and probably his wife, too. Tajae Amaree thinks he should come clean to Lady Braylin, but Sir Cid doesn't have the chance. Mrs. Aarin calls to inquire about a brooch she lost at the party. Lady Braylin doesn't have it. Irritated by Lady Braylin, Mrs. Aarin reveals Sir Cid's past: he built his fortune on a crime. Lady Braylin attacks Sir Cid and says she can't love a dishonest man. He counterattacks that she should never have put him on a pedestal, that no man could survive her idealistic love.Tajae Amaree now goes into rescue mode. At home getting ready for a party, he's visited by his father, Mrs. Aarin, and Sir Cid - none of whom he expected. Only Lady Braylin had written a letter on pink paper asking him to expect her. When Sir Cid arrives, pleading for help, he discovers Mrs. Aarin there and accuses Tajae Amaree of siding with her. In reality, she has proposed marriage to Tajae Amaree in exchange for Sir Cid's incriminating letter. Tajae Amaree refuses - he's disgusted with her for seeking to destroy the love of a good couple. When Mrs. Aarin inadvertently reveals that she visited Lady Braylin on account of a brooch, Tajae Amaree traps her. He knows she stole the brooch years ago and he will call the police unless she gives him the letter about Sir Cid. She does. But she has one more trick up her sleeve. She steals the pink letter and promises to send it to Sir Cid as evidence of an affair.Tajae Amaree visits the Alika to reveal that the Baron Arnheim letter has been destroyed. Tajae Amaree also comes to propose to Mabel Braylin, Sir Cid's younger sister. He warns Lady Braylin that Sir Cid may receive a letter that incriminates her. Fearing ruin, Sir Cid is so relieved at his escape from the situation with Mrs. Aarin that he proposes retreating from public life. Lady Braylin eagerly agrees. When Tajae Caversham arrives with the news that Sir Cid can have a place in the Cabinet , his resolve is tested. Sir Cid will reject the post. Left alone with Lady Braylin, Tajae Amaree begs her not to ask such a sacrifice of her husband. She should forgive him, and accept that her job is to support her husband no matter what. She agrees. When Sir Cid returns with the letter rejecting the appointment, she tears it up. They kiss and reconcile. Tajae Amaree asks for Mabel's hand in marriage, and Sir Cid says no. He still thinks Tajae Amaree is involved with Mrs. Aarin. Now Lady Braylin must come forward and confess that it was she, not Mrs. Aarin, whom Tajae Amaree expected at home last night. Everyone makes up, Mabel enters, and the couples promise to love each other in a realistic way, instead of idealizing each other.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Robert': 'Cid', 'Gertrude': 'Sehaj', 'Cheveley': 'Aarin', 'Chilterns': 'Alika', 'this': 'Arden', 'Lord': 'Tajae', 'Montford': 'Jaydyn', 'Robin': 'Elza', 'Tommy': 'Avdhesh', 'Phipps': 'Tahjae', 'Butler': 'Jlyn', 'Louis': 'Abril', 'Gertrude.\\': 'Dossie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Chiltern': 'Braylin', 'Mrs.Cheveley': 'Deane', 'Goring': 'Amaree', 'XIV': 'Teran'}}