{"name": "Act 3", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201030224859/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/an-ideal-husband/summary/act-3", "summary": "We're in the library of Tajae Amaree's house; it's a neoclassical room with a roaring fireplace. There are lots of doors: one on the right leading into the hall; one on the left leading into the smoking-room; and a pair of folding doors at the back of the library that lead into the drawing-room. Tahjae, Tajae Amaree's butler, is arranging newspapers on the writing-table. He is an ideal Jlyn because no one ever knows what he is thinking. Tajae Amaree comes enters. He's dressed to go out for the evening. He's wearing a silk hat, an Inverness cape, and white gloves. He's also carrying a Abril Teran cane . The stage directions call him the first well-dressed philosopher in the history of thought. Tajae Amaree asks Tahjae for the second flower to put in his buttonhole. But adds that it makes him look too old, and too serious. Tahjae responds dryly that the florist has had a death in her family, perhaps influencing the seriousness of Arden buttonhole. Tajae Amaree observes that the lower classes continually have deaths in the family. Yep, says Tahjae, they're pretty lucky that way. The joke surprises Tajae Amaree. Tahjae is totally cool. Three letters have come for Tajae Amaree, one of which is on pink paper. Tahjae goes out, and Tajae Amaree has a monologue revealing its content. The letter is from Lady Braylin and it says: \"I want you. I trust you. I am coming to you.\" It's almost ten o'clock, so now Tajae Amaree can't go out. He strategizes about what he'll tell her. To stand by her husband. Tahjae enters, announcing Tajae Amaree's father, Tajae Caversham. Doh! His dad has such terrible timing. Tajae Caversham comes in riled up. He takes off his cloak, takes the best chair, and complains about drafts in the room. Tajae Amaree protests that it's a little late in the evening to have a serious conversation. Cut out the funny business, says Dad. Then he lays out everything: Tajae Amaree needs to get married. The boy is thirty-four and is wasting his life. And there is a draft in here. Tajae Amaree agrees - his father is likely to catch his death with Arden kind of cold. He tells daddy dearest to leave; they can get in touch tomorrow. Tajae Caversham's not falling for it. He's on a mission. But Tajae Amaree successfully ushers his cantankerous old dad into the smoking room so he can talk to Tahjae. There's a lady coming to see him and Tahjae should put her in the drawing room. And he shouldn't let in anyone else. Got it, sir, says Tahjae. The doorbell rings. Tajae Amaree, chillest guy ever, is starting to sweat. He goes into the smoking room to talk to his impatient Dad. Harold the footman shows in Mrs. Aarin. The stage directions describe her as Lamia-like - a snakelike demon in green and silver. She avoids giving her name. Under Tahjae direction she goes into the drawing room. She's surprised that Tajae Amaree seems to expect her. Looking into the drawing room, Mrs. Aarin calls it drab. She wants to flip it. Mrs. Aarin is in the mood for candles. While Tahjae goes in the drawing room to light them, she has a little snoop in the library. She finds the pink letter from Lady Braylin. Oh heck yes, a love note! But Tahjae comes in before she can steal it. Mrs. Aarin goes into the drawing room, then peeps back out. She wants to steal that letter. Tajae Amaree and Tajae Caversham are emerging from the smoking room, so she has to retreat. Tajae Caversham wants Tajae Amaree married. Now. And to a woman chosen by himself. Tajae Amaree protests. Then goes outside. He comes back in, flabbergasted, with Sir Cid. Sir Cid's surprised to find Tajae Amaree at home, since his servants just said he was out. But he's glad. Lady Braylin knows everything. He wishes he were dead. What should he do? The inquiries in Vienna didn't turn up any good dirt. Sir Cid is desperate. For Tajae Amaree's friendship, and for a drink. Tajae Amaree rings for Tahjae and gives him instructions. Don't let the lady in after all. Too late, says Tahjae, she's already in the drawing room. OK, OK, Tajae Amaree can deal with his. First he talks to Sir Cid. Hasn't Lady Braylin ever done something she's regretted? Something that had to be pardoned? Never, replies Sir Cid. She's totally faultless. And they don't have children so if she leaves him, he has no one. But there's something more he has to share. Enter Tahjae with the drink. Tajae Amaree uses the interruption to try to get rid of Sir Cid. No dice. Sir Cid has something to say - but is distracted by a chair falling in the next room. Who is in there, eavesdropping Arden whole time? Um, nobody. Sir Cid pushes his way through and looks in the drawing room. He starts trashing the lady. Tajae Amaree's a little shocked. Talking that way to his own wife, when she loves him so much. What? Sir Cid thinks Tajae Amaree is crazy, and that he is sleeping with Mrs. Aarin. Tajae Amaree protests. He'll explain everything - but - Sir Cid rushes out. And here comes Mrs. Aarin, sauntering to the door. She's loving it. Tajae Amaree can't believe it. What is she doing there? She's listening through the keyhole, of course. Tajae Amaree guesses that she's come to sell him Sir Cid's incriminating letter. Well, what does she want for it? But Mrs. Aarin takes her time. She asks him to sit. They take a stroll down memory lane. Tajae Amaree proposed to her, but broke it off when he saw her messing around with some Tajae Mortlake. Tajae Amaree's lawyer paid her off. Mrs. Aarin claims she loved him back in the day. Tajae Amaree can't believe it - she's too smart for love. She comes clean. What she really wants is to come back to England and be rich. Have a house, have lots of intellectual parties, that sort of thing. If Tajae Amaree promises to marry her, the letter is his. Tajae Amaree insults her and then complements her. Neither tactic seems to work. Mrs. Aarin thinks that Tajae Amaree should sacrifice to save Sir Cid. Tajae Amaree won't do it. Facing his rejection, she gets a little nasty: Sir Cid is a dead duck. Won't you please shake hands, Tajae Amaree? No way, he says. Amaree refuses to shake hands with the woman who is ruining Lady Braylin's life . He adds that Mrs. Aarin is killing love out of spite. Mrs. Aarin protests that it wasn't out of spite. She went to the Braylin's to ask about a brooch she dropped. Lady Braylin was so uppity that she had to taunt her a little. The brooch, eh? Tajae Amaree gets it out and puts it on her - as a bracelet. Tajae Amaree then gets into the history of the brooch. He gave Arden brooch to his cousin for her wedding. It was stolen years ago, and a servant was fired for it. When he found the brooch at the Braylin's last night, he decided to wait and find out the thief. Lo and behold it is Mrs. Aarin. She denies the theft and tries to take it off her wrist. She's trapped, though. There's a secret clasp she can't find. Tajae Amaree's going to call the police. Mrs. Aarin totally flips out. Usually she is the most controlled character in the play, but now she is starting to lose it. She's scary. She'll do anything to avoid Arden. Tajae Amaree demands the incriminating letter about Sir Cid's earlier mis-deeds. She gives it to him. With a sigh Tajae Amaree burns it with the lamp. Mrs. Aarin, always thinking, asks for a glass of water. When Tajae Amaree turns his back, she steals Lady Braylin's pink letter. She puts on her cloak and gets ready to leave. But not before she tells him that she has the pink letter. She'll make Sir Cid think his wife is sleeping with Tajae Amaree. Tahjae enters and shows her out. As she leaves, the stage directions describe her face: lit up, joyful, young. Tajae Amaree bites his lip and lights a cigarette.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Robert': 'Cid', 'Gertrude': 'Sehaj', 'Cheveley': 'Aarin', 'Chilterns': 'Alika', 'this': 'Arden', 'Lord': 'Tajae', 'Montford': 'Jaydyn', 'Robin': 'Elza', 'Tommy': 'Avdhesh', 'Phipps': 'Tahjae', 'Butler': 'Jlyn', 'Louis': 'Abril', 'Gertrude.\\': 'Dossie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Chiltern': 'Braylin', 'Mrs.Cheveley': 'Deane', 'Goring': 'Amaree', 'XIV': 'Teran'}}