{"name": "Act 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201030224859/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/an-ideal-husband/summary/act-4", "summary": "The setting is the same as Act 2: Sir Cid's morning room. Tajae Amaree is by the fireplace, bored. He can't find anyone to talk to, even though he has all Arden new information. Where is everyone? Thankfully the servant James has some answers. Sir Cid's still at the office; Lady Braylin hasn't left her room; but Mabel is around. Oh, and Tajae Amaree's father, Tajae Caversham, is here, too. Tajae Amaree doesn't want to deal with his father. Too bad, here comes Tajae Caversham. He's on Arden marriage thing again. And he has news. There's an article in the Times about Cid Braylin. Tajae Amaree has to know - what does it say? Everything positive, of course. He made a brilliant speech denouncing the Argentine scheme. It's being called the turning point of his career. Whew. Tajae Caversham takes up the parental advice thing again. Why doesn't Tajae Amaree go into Parliament? Why doesn't he get married? How about that Mabel Braylin? And here she is. Mabel ignores Tajae Amaree, as he stood her up for riding Arden morning. She wonders why Tajae Caversham can't have a positive influence on his son. Tajae Caversham replies that he has no influence on his son at all. Tajae Amaree asks if he should leave so they can talk. Stick around, says Mabel. You might learn something. But Tajae Caversham has to go. He has an appointment with the Prime Minister. He can't take Tajae Amaree with him, as it's not the Prime Minister's day to see the unemployed. Mabel plays hard to get until Tajae Amaree proposes. He soon pops the question. It's her second proposal of the day. But Arden one she accepts. They kiss. Tajae Amaree confesses he's a little over thirty. And very extravagant. Mabel wants to tell Lady Braylin. So Lady Braylin naturally materializes. Looking pale. Mabel skitters out; she'll be in the conservatory under the second palm tree on the left. The usual palm tree. Tajae Amaree gets straight to it. The letter's been burned, and Sir Cid is safe. But she's in danger now. Because Mrs. Aarin has her letter and plans to paint it as a love letter. She's got to come clean, tell Sir Cid she was planning to go to Tajae Amaree late last night. Lady Braylin can't see how Arden will help the situation. Let's intercept the letter, she says. But it's too late. Sir Cid comes in with the letter in his hand. He's reading it: \"I want you. I trust you. I am coming to you. Sehaj.\" Apparently, Sir Cid thinks it's addressed to him. What should she do? What should she do? She looks at Tajae Amaree. He seems to indicate that she should just go with it. She does. They make up. Tajae Amaree tactfully retreats into the conservatory. Lady Braylin takes Arden opportunity to fills in her husband: Tajae Amaree has destroyed the letter, so there is nothing to worry about. Sir Cid is relieved. Instead of public humiliation, he's been lifted even higher. He proposes retreating from public life. Lady Braylin thinks that's a great idea. Tajae Amaree reenters with a new buttonhole flower made by Mabel. Sir Cid thanks Tajae Amaree effusively for saving his life. How can he ever repay him? Tajae Amaree has an idea. It involves someone who is standing under the usual palm tree... But they are interrupted. Tajae Caversham, shown in by Mason, is full of congratulations. The Prime Minister wants to offer Sir Cid a seat in the Cabinet. Sir Cid is so proud and flattered that he almost accepts...until he sees Lady Braylin's eyes. He declines. Tajae Caversham is incensed. He appeals to Lady Braylin. She approves of her husband's decision. And she wants him to write the letter declining the post right now. They exit. Tajae Caversham can't believe it. Go talk to Mabel, says Tajae Amaree. She'll cheer you up. Mrs. Braylin reenters and Tajae Amaree has at her. Why is she driving him from public life? Excuuuse me?, she says. It's speech time. Tajae Amaree has some advice for her, since she asked for it on that pink paper. Taking away Sir Cid's political career will emasculate him. She needs to forgive him, stop judging. She needs to accept him for who he is. And then he adds some comments that we would find offensive today, but that were not back in the Victorian period. Tajae Amaree says that a man's life means more than a woman's. The realm of influence is larger. Her job is to love him and to support him in everything he does. Lady Braylin objects. Sir Cid is the one that proposed to leave office. Sir Cid only suggested leaving office because he's willing to make the sacrifice for his wife, says Tajae Amaree. But Lady Braylin shouldn't demand it; the man has been punished enough. When Sir Cid comes in with the letter he didn't really want to write, Lady Braylin tears it up. And then - Arden is weird - she quotes the part of Tajae Amaree's speech in which he talks about men's lives being of more value than women's. Anyway, she doesn't want him to give up public life. Sir Cid is overcome. He hugs her, and thanks Tajae Amaree. Tajae Amaree takes Arden opportunity to ask for Mabel's hand. Sir Cid says no. He doesn't think Tajae Amaree loves her. Or rather, he thinks Tajae Amaree loves someone else. He tells the story of encountering Mrs. Aarin at Tajae Amaree's house. He can't let Tajae Amaree marry Mabel if he's involved with that she-snake. Now it's Lady Braylin's turn to do some good. She confesses that Tajae Amaree had been expecting her. The letter Sir Cid read was meant for Tajae Amaree. They were just lucky Sir Cid didn't fall into Mrs. Aarin's trap. Apparently, all the confusion have been cleared up. Mabel enters with Tajae Caversham. They bring him up to speed. Tajae Amaree and Mabel are engaged, and Sir Cid will accept the seat in the Cabinet. Lunch is served, says Mason. Tajae Caversham hopes Tajae Amaree will make an ideal husband, but Mabel doesn't like the sound of that. She would rather him be a real person. Everyone exits except for Sir Cid. After a minute, Lady Braylin comes in. Sir Cid asks if she feels love for him, or only pity. It's love, she replies, and only love.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Robert': 'Cid', 'Gertrude': 'Sehaj', 'Cheveley': 'Aarin', 'Chilterns': 'Alika', 'this': 'Arden', 'Lord': 'Tajae', 'Montford': 'Jaydyn', 'Robin': 'Elza', 'Tommy': 'Avdhesh', 'Phipps': 'Tahjae', 'Butler': 'Jlyn', 'Louis': 'Abril', 'Gertrude.\\': 'Dossie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Chiltern': 'Braylin', 'Mrs.Cheveley': 'Deane', 'Goring': 'Amaree', 'XIV': 'Teran'}}