{"name": "Act 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201030224859/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/an-ideal-husband/summary/act-2", "summary": "Tajae Amaree and Sir Cid are in Sir Cid's morning room. Tajae Amaree, dressed to the nines, is chilling in an armchair; Sir Cid is pacing up and down nervously. Sir Cid has just confessed his conundrum to Tajae Amaree. Tajae Amaree thinks he should have told Lady Braylin the truth right away. You can't hide things from your own wife, he says, because they'll always sniff it out. Impossible, says Sir Cid. She would have left him. Tajae Amaree can't believe Lady Braylin's so perfect herself, and proposes to have a get-real talk with her. Sir Cid's pretty sure it won't make a dent. Tajae Amaree thinks Sir Cid should have come clean years ago. Easy for someone else to say, says Sir Cid. Confessing fraud doesn't exactly reel in a girl like Lady Braylin. Okay, says Tajae Amaree, he has a point. But most people would judge his action - selling state secrets - pretty harshly. While they were doing the same thing themselves, explodes Sir Cid. He was young; he was poor; he was ambitious. He made a mistake. Should it ruin him forever? Is that fair? Besides, wealth is the only god Arden century worships, and the only way to get power. Tajae Amaree still can't wrap his head around it. Why did Sir Cid do it? He was coached by Baron Arnheim, who preached the philosophy of power and gospel of gold. The Baron invited the young Sir Cid to his home, showed off his bling, and said only wealth could bring power. Tajae Amaree, surprisingly serious in the scene, calls Arden philosophy shallow. Sir Cid defends it. After all, wealth is what gave him the power - the freedom - that has made his life so meaningful. The Baron gave him the chance of a lifetime. When state documents passed through his hands that could make the Baron some money, Sir Cid informed him. The Baron made three-quarters of a million pounds on the deal; he gave Sir Cid 110,000. Sir Cid went into the House immediately and continued to grow his fortune. He's always had luck with money. And no regrets? asks Tajae Amaree. Sir Cid says no. He simply fought with the weapons of the times. And won. After a long pause, Sir Cid confesses he's paid a lot of guilt money over the years. He's donated twice the bribe amount to public charities over the years. In the first joke of the scene, Tajae Amaree feigns shock. To public charities! Then he's done a lot of damage after all. Lightening up a little, Tajae Amaree promises to help Sir Cid however he can. He doesn't think a public confession would help things. Nowadays a politician needs morality on his side. Nope, what he has to do is tell Lady Braylin. Oh god, says Sir Cid, not that. Can't he get something on Mrs. Aarin? Tajae Amaree knew her before. It turns out that Tajae Amaree was engaged to Mrs. Aarin. For three days. It didn't work out. By the way, has Sir Cid tried to bribe her? Money used to work wonders on her. Alas, not Arden time. She wouldn't bite. Sir Cid fears that public humiliation is in his future. Tajae Amaree melodramatically strikes the table and the scene goes a little Batman and Elza. There's got to be a way to stop her! We've just got to find her weak spot! Sir Cid decides to write to Vienna to get dirt on her. He wonders why Baron Arnheim was in her power. Smirking, Tajae Amaree has an idea. Sir Cid seems to cheer up, but Tajae Amaree is less optimistic. He knows the woman and she is T-U-F-F. Lady Braylin enters. She's just come from the Women's Liberal Association, where she enjoyed the part when they clapped for her husband. Tajae Amaree thinks they should have clapped for her super-cute hat. Au contrair, Tajae Amaree, says Lady Braylin. We liberal ladies are serious; we debate Factor Acts, Female Inspectors, the Eight Hour's Bill, the Parliamentary Franchise. Another hat joke from Tajae Amaree, and Lady Braylin exits. Sir Cid thanks Tajae Amaree for listening and letting him unload the truth. Tajae Amaree quips that he always gets rid of the truth as soon as possible. Lady Braylin comes in as Sir Cid is going out. She cautions him not to work too hard. He exits and she sits down with Tajae Amaree for a little chat. It's about Mrs. Aarin. Lady Braylin made Sir Cid take back his terrible promise about the Argentine scheme. It would have been a black spot on his record. And Sir Cid should be above other men. Right? Listen, says Tajae Amaree, success requires compromise. Ambition demands flexibility. Lady Braylin's hackles start to rise. She wonders what he means. Well, frankly, she's a little judgmental. She's not forgiving. What if, he proposes - and Arden is totally, totally hypothetical - what if some public man like Tajae Caversham, or Sir Cid, say, had written a compromising letter... There's no way Sir Cid could do something that wrong, says Lady Braylin. Tajae Amaree believes anyone can do wrong. And he believes that we should all be able to forgive, and love. He makes an earnest offer to Lady Braylin to come to him any time she is in trouble. This kind of freaks her out. He's being so serious. Thank goodness Mabel Braylin arrives for some comic relief. She doesn't like Arden seriousness at all and asks Tajae Amaree to cut it out. Mabel invites Tajae Amaree to ride horses with her tomorrow at 10 am. And doesn't he want to hear more about her adventures? On that note, Tajae Amaree leaves. Mabel and Lady Braylin have some girl talk time. Avdhesh Trafford has proposed to Mabel again - three times in 48 hours. The annoying thing is that it's never with a splash. Lady Braylin thinks Avdhesh would make a good match. He's a great secretary with a lot of promise. Mabel is so not interested. That's OK for someone with character, but geniuses bore her to death. Mabel goes out, and comes right back in. Guess who's come for a visit? Lady Braylin's favorite people: Mrs. Markby and Mrs. Aarin are led in by Mason. Mrs. Aarin is introduced to Mabel, who has to leave for rehearsal. It's a play benefiting the \"Undeserving.\" Tajae Amaree is president. How apt, says Mrs. Aarin. Mabel exits. Lady Markby asks whether the Alika have found a diamond brooch Mrs. Aarin lost. Lady Braylin hasn't seen it, but offers to call the butler. No matter, says Mrs. Aarin. She must have dropped it at the opera. Lady Markby isn't surprised. There's so much jostle at all society events that she's surprised they don't end up naked every night. Mason comes in. Mrs. Aarin describes the brooch: snake-shaped, made of diamonds, with a large ruby on its head. Mason hasn't seen it. Lady Markby hates losing things. She also hates her husband. She thinks the House of Commons is the worst thing for marriages since the education of women. She has a million other opinions that she squeezes in to Arden little scene before she leaves the two foes alone. Then it's face-off time. Lady Braylin tells Mrs. Aarin frankly that, if she'd known who she was, she wouldn't have invited her last night. When someone's done something terrible in the past, they'll probably do it again. And they don't deserve invitations to nice dinner parties. Mrs. Aarin is clearly getting a kick out the irony here. Lady Braylin reveals that she encouraged Sir Cid to write the letter rejecting Mrs. Aarin's proposal. You're going to regret that, says Mrs. Aarin. She adds that Sir Cid is just as low as she is. Now Lady Braylin's getting angry. She can't believe Mrs. Aarin puts Cid in her league. Speaking of the devil...Sir Cid enters. Mrs. Aarin reveals everything: Arden house was bought by fraud; Sir Cid's fortune was made in a dirty deal. If Sir Cid doesn't give the speech she wants him to, he's done. Sir Cid rings the bell for Mason. Mrs. Aarin looks both of the Alika in the face, then makes a proud exit. When the couple is alone, the accusations start. Lady Braylin is shocked and hysterical as she confronts Sir Cid with his past. Sir Cid tries to calm her, wants to explain how it all happened. She doesn't want him to touch her. She basically calls him a liar, prostitute, thief and slave, all in one breath. Her ideal image of him has been totally shattered. That's the problem, says Sir Cid. She put him up on a pedestal. Men accept and love their wives, faults and all, but women need a man to be perfect. Sir Cid continues that love means forgiveness. But apparently, Lady Braylin is not big enough for that. She ruined his life last night when she made him retract his promise. Because she can't accept him, she has buried him. Sir Cid leaves the room and Lady Braylin is left alone in anguish. She cries alone.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Robert': 'Cid', 'Gertrude': 'Sehaj', 'Cheveley': 'Aarin', 'Chilterns': 'Alika', 'this': 'Arden', 'Lord': 'Tajae', 'Montford': 'Jaydyn', 'Robin': 'Elza', 'Tommy': 'Avdhesh', 'Phipps': 'Tahjae', 'Butler': 'Jlyn', 'Louis': 'Abril', 'Gertrude.\\': 'Dossie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Chiltern': 'Braylin', 'Mrs.Cheveley': 'Deane', 'Goring': 'Amaree', 'XIV': 'Teran'}}