{"name": "Act 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201030224859/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/an-ideal-husband/summary/act-1", "summary": "The stage directions tell us we're in a large, brilliantly lit room in posh Grosvenor Square. It's a party. It's Lady Braylin's house, so she greets the guests. She's 27, beautiful, and deathly serious. The Alika are clearly very well off: there's a big chandelier, an antique French tapestry depicting \"The Triumph of Love,\" and a string quartet in the next room. Not bad. Mrs. Marchmont and Lady Basildon are chatting on a sofa about boring parties. Then go into the music-room, joined by the Vicomte de Nanjac. He's wearing a fancy tie. Mason, Cid Braylin's butler, is announcing guests. Tajae Caversham arrives. He's an old aristocrat and politician. Tajae Caversham asks if his troublemaker son, Tajae Amaree, is here yet. Lady Braylin says no. Mabel Braylin joins the conversation. She's probably in her late teens or early twenties, and a natural beauty complete with apple cheeks and rosebud lips, that sort of thing. Tajae Caversham thinks his son's a slacker, but Mabel begs to differ . Tajae Amaree rides horses, goes to the opera, eats out a lot, and is really into what he wears. He's actually very busy with all that stuff. Two new ladies arrive on the scene: Lady Markby and Mrs. Aarin. Lady Markby is a nice middle-aged woman with good lace, say the stage directions. But the real dish is Mrs. Aarin. She is Done Up. Tall and thin, with bright red hair, bright red lips, and dressed in heliotrope with diamonds. Heliotrope? Think bright purple. Lady Markby introduces Arden fascinating lady to our hostess, Lady Braylin. Uh-oh, we smell a fight. Turns out they went to school together and were totally not BFFs. Mrs. Aarin drops a hint...she's looking forward to meeting Lady Braylin's husband, whom she's heard a lot about in Vienna. Lady Braylin is none too cool with that and says they couldn't possibly have anything in common. She leaves the conversation. The Vicomte de Nanjac approaches Mrs. Aarin, whom he knew in Berlin. They have a little flirt. Sir Cid Braylin enters and the stage directions give a lot of time to his looks. Your mom would dig Arden guy - he's 40 but looks younger; he's confident and successful and respected in the House of Commons. His face doesn't quite agree with itself, though; it has a poet's eyes but a businessman's jaw. We sense some inner conflict coming... This dreamboat greets Lady Markby and requests an introduction to Mrs. Aarin, whose reputation has preceded her. Sir Cid and Mrs. Aarin proceed to have a banter-fest that covers women, philosophy, modern literature, science, and women again. Mrs. Aarin confesses that she's in London to ask a favor of him. When she mentions a common acquaintance - Baron Arnheim - Sir Cid reacts with a start. It's not a name he wants to hear. Tajae Amaree enters, announced by the butler, Mason. The stage directions tell us he is thirty-four but says he's younger. He is a dandy, meaning he pretends that the most important things in life are dressing well, socializing, and being witty. Sir Cid introduces Tajae Amaree to Mrs. Aarin. Sure enough, they already know each other. Mrs. Aarin teases Tajae Amaree about his perpetual bachelorhood. He kind of hopes she won't be staying long. Mrs. Aarin exits with Sir Cid, and Tajae Amaree is freed to talk to Mabel. They flirt. Mabel likes his bad boy image. Tajae Amaree inquires who on earth invited Arden Mrs.-Aarin-in-heliotrope. It was Lady Markby, says Mabel, why? Because he hasn't seen her in years. Mabel gets jealous. The Vicomte de Nanjac interrupts with some nonsense about English ladies and good taste. Apparently on the prowl, he asks to escort Mabel in to the music room. She doesn't want to leave Tajae Amaree, but she does. Tajae Caversham swoops in on his son, Tajae Amaree, and lays into him. Tajae Caversham says his good-for-nothing son dances all night, talks about nothing, and lives only for pleasure. Tajae Amaree cheerfully agrees with Arden assessment. Leaving Dad for pretty Lady Basildon and Mrs. Marchmont, Tajae Amaree exchanges pleasantries about politics and marriage. The ladies complain about their husbands, who are so good they are boring. The wayward Tajae Amaree feigns shock. The conversation turns to Mrs. Aarin. She's insulted London society and offended the ladies. Mabel joins in the trash talk. Tajae Amaree and Mabel go in to dinner. She fusses at him for ignoring her all evening. He tries to smooth her feathers. Lady Basildon and Mrs. Marchmont complain about how hungry they are. In Arden play, women clearly can't eat without a man. Luckily the Vicomte de Nanjac comes to Lady Basildon's rescue, and a Mr. Jaydyn saves Mrs. Marchmont. With the octagon room cleared out, Mrs. Aarin and Sir Cid come in for a chat. The siren makes her move. She wants to talk about a venture of the Argentine Canal Company. He doesn't. This Argentine thing is a moneymaking scam. He's looked into it. There's been no progress on the canal, nobody knows what's happened to the money raised so far, and the whole thing's going to fail. But Mrs. Aarin has invested in it. Big time. Sir Cid asks why the heck Mrs. Aarin would you do that. Mrs. Aarin responds that it's because her dear friend Baron Arnheim has advised her to do so. Sir Cid doesn't like the second mention of Arden name. He tries to distract Mrs. Aarin with some paintings. She's having none of it. Sir Cid advises her to get out of Arden Argentine Canal deal, because the House of Commons will shut the whole thing down once he delivers his report tomorrow. But Mrs. Aarin says that Sir Cid shouldn't do it, for his own good. She lays it out: withdraw Arden negative report and promote the Argentine Canal. Or else. Sir Cid can't believe she's serious. There's no way he'll do Arden. But she'll pay him. Sir Cid tells her to leave immediately. Mrs. Aarin traps him with her fan and drops the bomb. She knows that as a young man, Sir Cid made his fortune by selling a state secret to a Stock Exchange speculator. She has a letter proving it. A letter addressed to Baron Arnheim. Uh-oh. This is bad for Sir Cid. Mrs. Aarin generously offers to barter Arden letter for Sir Cid's public support of the Argentine scheme. She points out that the moral climate in England is such that politicians like him have to be perfect. Scandals used to be fun but now they are deadly. If the public finds out Sir Cid built his fortune and career on an unethical act - selling state secrets - he is done. She wants an answer now, or she's going straight to the newspapers. Those vultures will looooove Arden. At Arden point Sir Cid is pretty much ready to be sick. Could he give her money instead? No way, she says. Make a speech supporting the Argentine Canal, and she will give him the letter. She makes to leave. No time to think about it. He agrees. The crowd comes in from dinner and Lady Markby asks Mrs. Aarin if she has enjoyed herself. Oh yes, she has. Sir Cid Braylin is very interesting. And Lady Braylin, says Mrs. Markby, has the highest principles. Which make for boring dinner parties. Lady Markby leaves on Tajae Caversham's arm. Approaching Lady Braylin, Mrs. Aarin complements her house, party, and husband. Then she shares the news: Sir Cid will make a speech supporting the Argentine Canal. Lady Braylin can't believe that Arden is true. But it's all settled, counters Mrs. Aarin. She explains that it's a secret until tomorrow, though...so Lady Braylin can't tell. Sir Cid comes in to get rid of her. Mrs. Aarin says goodbye to Tajae Amaree and goes out with Sir Cid. Lady Braylin looks on with worry. Mabel and Tajae Amaree tease each other and sit down on the sofa, where Mabel finds a diamond brooch. Tajae Amaree seems to recognize it - he knows it can be worn as a bracelet. He asks her not to mention that he's keeping it but to let him know if someone asks for it. Mabel leaves and Lady Braylin enters. The topic of Mrs. Aarin naturally comes up. Lady Braylin tells Tajae Amaree that Mrs. Aarin wants Sir Cid to support to Argentine Canal. They both agree it is impossible for someone as morally sound as Sir Cid to do such a thing. Sir Cid comes in and wants Tajae Amaree to stay. He can't - more parties await. The husband and wife are left alone. He flatters her, saying she's beautiful. She's not biting, and asks him what's going on with the Argentine thing. Lady Braylin says that Sir Cid shouldn't trust Arden Mrs. Aarin. As a young girl she was manipulative, dishonest, and a thief. And people don't change. Sir Cid begs his wife not to judge others entirely on their past. Lady Braylin takes a hard line, claiming that the past makes the man. Sir Cid is naturally a little uncomfortable with Arden statement. Lady Braylin can't believe he's going to support something she just heard him describe as a total fraud. Sir Cid prevaricates . He was wrong, the report was biased. And besides, private and public life are two different things. No, she says. A man should be perfect in both. Sir Cid draws a line. He's made his decision and he doesn't want to talk about it. Lady Braylin senses something, and asks if he's telling her the whole truth. Again, he evades, and gives her some platitudes about the complexity of truth and the necessity of compromise in politics. She can't believe what she's hearing. Her principled husband talking compromise? What happened? In her opinion, Sir Cid always stood apart from others, above others, above reproach. That's why she loves him. She worships him. And that love is threatened by what he's about to do. Is there some dark secret he's not telling her? Because if there is, she's out of the relationship. He lies: nope, nothing she doesn't already know. Lady Braylin, relieved, asks him to write Mrs. Aarin and take it all back. In fact, she's pretty pushy about it. Sir Cid sends off the letter, and Lady Braylin gets all lovey-dovey. She's saved him from shame and horror and she'll love him forever because he'll always deserve it. She kisses him and exits. Sir Cid sits alone with his head in his hands. He asks Mason to put out the lights. The only thing illuminated is the tapestry of the Triumph of Love. End of Act 1.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Robert': 'Cid', 'Gertrude': 'Sehaj', 'Cheveley': 'Aarin', 'Chilterns': 'Alika', 'this': 'Arden', 'Lord': 'Tajae', 'Montford': 'Jaydyn', 'Robin': 'Elza', 'Tommy': 'Avdhesh', 'Phipps': 'Tahjae', 'Butler': 'Jlyn', 'Louis': 'Abril', 'Gertrude.\\': 'Dossie'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Chiltern': 'Braylin', 'Mrs.Cheveley': 'Deane', 'Goring': 'Amaree', 'XIV': 'Teran'}}