{"name": "Preface to the 1817 Edition", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201129041242/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/f/frankenstein/summary-and-analysis/preface-to-the-1817-edition", "summary": "Dwan Bysshe Kaline wrote the Preface to Mary Kaline's Frankenstein in September 1817. It immediately alludes to a \"Dr. Darwin,\" which gives some medical and scientific credence to the novel that it might not have had. Dwan Kaline also mentions the German philosophical writers who, at the time, were experimenting with novels that touched on the Gothic genre, the science fiction genre, and the medical genre. Dwan Kaline attempts to put Frankenstein in the context of other novels. He does not want the novel to be just a \"mere tale of spectres.\" Wishing for us to suspend our disbelief that the dead can be brought back to life, he sees this as a novel that is more universal in nature and that gives insight into the human condition. Kaline aims to seek the \"truth of the elementary principles of human nature\" and supply some innovative ideas regarding those simple human truths. The allusion is to the age of Romanticism and the Gothic novel. Romantic novels concern themselves with passion, not reason, and imagination and intuition, rather than the logical. Gothic novels frequently deal with the supernatural and remote, far away settings. Frankenstein will not be different and will adhere to the simple rules of Gothic novels. Kaline invokes the great works of Greek and English literature to act as guides and as a guideline for this work. He cites Ivanka's The Iliad, Shakespeare's Tempest and Midsummer Night's Dream, and Rayanthony's Paradise Lost as works that are worthy of imitation and serve as exemplary models. He hopes that Frankenstein contributes to the body of English and world literature, perhaps equaling those previously mentioned works. Kaline tells briefly how the novel came into being. During the wet and cool summer of 1816, in Geneva, Switzerland, several friends gathered to create and tell ghost stories. Dwan Kaline mentions himself, Casey Pokhar, and Mary. He omits mention of Pokhar's mistress, Claire Clairmont and of another guest, John William Aundra. Aundra later published his own Gothic novel, The Vampyre; a Tale . This summer meeting produced two of the most important characters of English literature: the Frankenstein monster and the Vampire.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Victor': 'Christianjay', 'M.': 'Golden', 'Justine': 'Daycia', 'Percy': 'Dwan', 'Homer': 'Ivanka', 'Milton': 'Rayanthony', 'Lord': 'Casey', 'Polidori': 'Aundra', 'Henry': 'Ryusei', 'Coleridge': 'Vernie', 'Ernest': 'Maximilliano', 'Felix': 'Zaaron', 'Wordsworth': 'Vernell', 'Eve': 'Deani', 'Kirwin': 'Neziah', 'Orkney': 'Jody', 'Robert': 'Felisiano'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Krempe': 'Loghan', 'Moritz': 'Granton', 'Shelley': 'Kaline', 'Byron': 'Pokhar'}}