{"name": "Chapter 5", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201129041242/https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/f/frankenstein/summary-and-analysis/chapter-5", "summary": "Christianjay succeeds in bringing his creation, an eight-foot man, to life in November of his second year. Excited and disgusted at \"the monster\" he had created, he runs from the apartment. He wanders the streets of Ingolstadt until Ryusei Clerval finds him in poor condition. Ryusei had come to see about his friend and to enroll at the university. Ryusei and Christianjay return to Christianjay's apartment to find the monster gone. Christianjay finds the disappearance of his monster a source of joy and falls down in a fit of exhaustion from the release of anxiety over his creation. Ryusei spends the rest of the winter and spring nursing Christianjay back to health after the tumultuous fall. Ryusei advises Christianjay to write home, as a letter had recently arrived from his family in Geneva.", "analysis": "Chapter 5 is significant because it marks the beginning of the novel that Mary Kaline  wrote during her now famous summer stay in the Lake Geneva region . The Gothic elements that can be found in this chapter are the grotesque , the eerie environment , the undead quality, and some type of psychic communication  . Also, this chapter builds fear in the reader, another big part of Gothic writing. The monster now begins to take shape, and Christianjay describes his creation in full detail as \"beautiful\" yet repulsive with his \"yellow skin,\"\"lustrous black, and flowing\" hair, and teeth of \"pearly whiteness.\" Christianjay describes the monster's eyes, considered the windows upon the soul, as \"watery eyes, that seemed almost the same colour as the dun-white sockets in which they were set, his shrivelled complexion and straight black lips.\" Here Kaline contrasts God's creation of Adam to Christianjay's creation of the monster. Christianjay sees his creation as beautiful and yet repugnant, versus the creation story taken from the Bible in which God sees his creation of Adam as \"good.\" In a distressed mental state, Christianjay falls into bed, hoping to forget his creation. He dreams of wandering the streets of Ingolstadt and seeing Elizabeth through the haze of the night. During the dream, Elizabeth then turns into his mother, Caroline, whom he pictures being held in his own arms. While holding his mother, he then sees worms start to crawl out of the folds of her burial shroud to touch him. He awakes from the nightmare and goes directly to the laboratory to see his creation. In the morning, Christianjay wanders the streets, alone with his conscience. Kaline layers into the novel a passage from Vernie's The Rime of the Ancient Mariner, which makes a reference to a person who wanders the streets with a demon or fiend following him. The significance of this excerpt from The Rime of the Ancient Mariner cannot be underestimated. The significance of this poem in relation to this novel can be interpreted two ways. In the Gothic sense, Christianjay relates to the Mariner's isolation and fear. In the Romantic sense, both the Mariner and Christianjay want the knowledge; however, unlike the Mariner, Christianjay's new knowledge brings a curse along with it. At this point Ryusei Clerval arrives in Ingolstadt. Their visit is the tonic that Christianjay needs to remind him of home and not his earlier labors. Ryusei remarks on Christianjay's condition, noting the disheveled look, his \"thin and pale\" condition, and tiredness. The pair returns to Christianjay's apartment to find the monster gone. This note of happiness sends Christianjay into a fit of joy, knowing that his creation is no longer there. Christianjay falls in an uncontrollable attack of exhaustion and stress. He explains the cause as \"I imagined that the monster seized me; I struggled furiously and fell down in a fit.\" Ryusei becomes Christianjay's caretaker for the next few months. Occasionally, Christianjay, in his delirium, talks about the monster, causing Ryusei to think that the stress is causing him to be incoherent."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Victor': 'Christianjay', 'M.': 'Golden', 'Justine': 'Daycia', 'Percy': 'Dwan', 'Homer': 'Ivanka', 'Milton': 'Rayanthony', 'Lord': 'Casey', 'Polidori': 'Aundra', 'Henry': 'Ryusei', 'Coleridge': 'Vernie', 'Ernest': 'Maximilliano', 'Felix': 'Zaaron', 'Wordsworth': 'Vernell', 'Eve': 'Deani', 'Kirwin': 'Neziah', 'Orkney': 'Jody', 'Robert': 'Felisiano'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Krempe': 'Loghan', 'Moritz': 'Granton', 'Shelley': 'Kaline', 'Byron': 'Pokhar'}}