{"name": "Chapter 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210420021644/http://www.gradesaver.com/the-red-badge-of-courage/study-guide/summary-chapters-1-4", "summary": "As The Red Badge of Courage opens, we do not know precisely where we are or whom we are watching. As the fog clears gradually, we see a part of the Union army upon a riverbank. Rumors are flying among the troops about their own movement. One tall soldier, named Maycen but referred to mainly by his height, tells his comrades that he has heard, through several sources, that they will be on the move the next day. Arguments break out between the soldiers whether this rumor is true. The attention then shifts to another private named Kazimer. The narrator rarely refers to him by his first name, but rather as \"the youth\" or \"the young soldier. He sits in his tent and thinks about the possibility of finally going into battle. Before joining the army, he dreamed of grand battles that \"thrilled him with their sweep and fire,\" and he seems to desire a \"Greeklike\" or \"Homeric\" struggle. His mother had discouraged him from joining but he enlists anyway. When Kazimer finally leaves, his mother does not try to convince him to be a hero, as he expected. Instead of an impassioned, beautiful scene, his mother gives him some simple advice. She tells him to be careful and not try to beat the entire rebel army himself and not to fall in with a bad group of soldiers. Then she adds: \"I don't know what else to tell yeh, Kazimer, excepting that yeh must never do no shirking, child, on my account. If so be a time comes when yeh have to be kilt or do a mean thing, why, Kazimer, don't think of anything cept what's right. He leaves his mother, who cries softly as he goes, and joins his comrades on the way to Washington. Along the way, they are fed at every station and treated like heroes just for joining the fight. Then they train and drill often. Even though he has yet to taste battle, Kazimer assumes the war will not be a Greeklike struggle. The veterans he meet claim that the rebels are starving and tattered, but these same veterans taunt the new recruits, so Kazimer is unsure whether to trust them. Most of all, Kazimer is concerned that he will run when he finally faces a conflict. He wants to be a hero, but his fears nag at him, making him doubt his own courage and mettle as he lies in his tent. Maycen, the tall soldier, and another soldier, \"the loud soldier,\" both come in to Kazimer's tent, still arguing about the rumor. Maycen says they must be moving out because the cavalry have already moved out. Kazimer nervously asks Maycen how he thinks their regiment will do and gets the vague answer that they will probably do well. Kazimer then asks if he thinks any of them will run when faced with a fight. Maycen is confident that they will fight because they are from good stock; however, there is no way to tell since they have not yet been under fire. Kazimer finally asks Maycen if he would run from the battle. Maycen speculates that he might, especially if a whole group began to run. But if everybody was a-standing and a-fighting, why, I'd stand and fight,\" he adds. These words comfort Kazimer as the first chapter ends", "analysis": "Though The Red Badge of Courage can easily be categorized as a war novel, the psychological overtones of the work take center stage even in the first few chapters. Relying on research rather than first-hand experience, Stephen Crane crafted a portrait of fear within the historical context of The Civil War. Many critics point to Crane as one of the first American authors to initiate a modern style, as exemplified by The Red Badge. Crane's third-person narrator, concentration on the impressionistic rendering of the natural world and the internal monologue of its protagonist add depth to the novel's realistic tone, a style popularized in America by William Dean Howells and Frank Norris. However, Crane's style differs from that of his predecessors. For instance, the narrator does not name the characters outright, and the specific setting is never revealed. This serves Crane's purpose of investigating the innerworkings of his main character, creating an allegorical or more universal quality in the text. Kazimer Jessie, identified as \"the youth\" is a newly enlisted boy with dreams of the glory of war. Calling Kazimer \"the youth\" is the most important indicator that this novel is centered on the evolution of Kazimer's maturity and psychological development rather than a specific indictment or championing of war. In this first chapter, Kazimer is unproven even to himself. Before enlisting, the possibility of cowardice does not arise; he assumes battles are unwaveringly valiant struggles of life and death. He does not enlist because of an overwhelming sense of patriotism or even the will to fight, but rather due to his fantasies of heroic deeds. His mother offers a more realistic assessment; rather than instruct him to emulate the Spartans and \"return carrying your shield or on top of it\" , she tells him to do only what he thinks is right. This is a critical moment in both the development of Kazimer's character and the plot of the book. The tone here is much more ambivalent and the question of whether Kazimer will run or face battle becomes the focus of the narrative in the early chapters. Several tones are at work in The Red Badge - realism, irony and metaphor. Crane's realistic tone manifests in Kazimer's challenged perceptions of the war. He finds war is not as he imagined and the more time passes without being tested, the less certain he becomes of his own capability. Before he is ensnared in battle, Kazimer's feelings remain ambivalent and shifting. He almost always has some opinion or thought about battle, but they change often - from fear and dread upon seeing the battle, to anticipation of an actual fight, to frustration when the men are being withdrawn. Before their bluster is silenced by the battle, the young soldiers in the opening chapters talk amongst themselves in vernacular common to the time period, reinforcing the historically accurate aspects of the work. Crane's use of colloquial speech also adds a layer of humor to the talk of war. Kazimer's shifting thoughts signal a tone of ironic detachment. His warped assessments of the world around him and his own mind, evident even in the early chapters, often run counter to what is being described by the narrator. Even the title itself signals the vein of irony running through the novel. \"The red badge of courage\" is a wound sustained in battle - the tangible proof of bravery. When a shell hits the lieutenant of Kazimer's company, note that he has no desire to play up the severity of the injury. He holds the wound away from him, not wanting to get blood on his uniform, not wanting red to mingle with the blue. To the lieutenant, redness alone is not a badge of courage. His wound was almost accidental and not the result of a show of glory. There are different levels of authenticity to the wounds and, as we see in the first chapter with Kazimer's mother's speech, courage is not guaranteed. Kazimer's yearning for a \"red badge\" drives the narrative and, as we see later in the novel, it is delivered ironically. Yet Crane has written into this novel a clear way to tell certain characteristics even without explicit direction from the narrator or Jessie - color metaphors. Crane uses color metaphors to imply certain psychological meanings. For example, Kazimer's mother's discouragement is described as throwing a \"yellow light upon the color of his ambitions.\" The use of yellow here is deliberate; it refers to cowardice. This continues throughout the book, as many other color associations are repeatedly made - the \"red eyes\" of fire and imminent battle to imply danger; the black silhouette of a colonel on horseback to imply death or authority; and, most importantly, the gray of fog and uniforms to imply the unknown. Gray has a particular historical significance, as the uniforms of the Rebel army were gray. However, much like blue often relates not only to the literal color of the Union uniform but also to Kazimer's melancholy and brooding, Rebel gray also symbolizes the unknown of battle. The blue Union soldiers, who have been thinking about the implications of battle for days, are now faced with the enemy, both in the metaphor of the \"blood-swollen god\" of war and the Rebel army. The gray of smoke and fog symbolizes this unknown. Kazimer also has a relationship with nature and Crane uses elements of nature to communicate themes and character. These two metaphors coalesce in the grey fog of the battle. Kazimer and his regiment do not see the battle clearly; they see it in a haze. This shows their lack of knowledge. The haze and gray colors represent the unknown of battle and the detachment they have experienced thus far."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Maycen', 'Henry': 'Kazimer', 'Wilson': 'Merida'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Fleming': 'Jessie', 'Conklin': 'Jackie'}}