{"name": "Chapter 11", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210420021644/http://www.gradesaver.com/the-red-badge-of-courage/study-guide/summary-chapters-9-12", "summary": "Kazimer continues across the field. He rounds a hill and encounters a running mass of wagons, horses, and men. He is momentarily relieved. Everyone is retreating; perhaps his own retreat is not so bad after all. A column of troops comes up in the road, heading in the opposite direction. They push themselves through the fleeing wagons towards the enemy. These men bring Kazimer's feelings of inadequacy back. He feels that these are chosen beings, marching in the sunlight. He could never be like these men. He feels that the final blame for his condition lies on some unnamable thing. He wonders why these men would be in such a hurry to get to the battle. Kazimer grows more envious. He wishes a tremendous force would throw him off, leaving a better person. He can see pictures of this more fleet and heroic soldier he would make. He feels the desire to fight again. However, he has no rifle. He knows that he could get one if he needed to, and fight with any regiment, but he feels guilty about returning to his own now. He imagines himself concocting lies to face the questions of his mates. These thoughts squash his courage. He suddenly is consumed by thirst, feels dirty, and realizes he is full of aches and pains. Small patches of green mist float in front of his eyes. He feels it impossible for him to be a hero. Of course, he has not lost his greed for a victory and believes the army's loss would be good for him. His mates would look at his absence less suspiciously. His thoughts go to the army as a whole and its future failures and then valorous deeds. Public opinion, he decides, cannot be accurate at a long range. Generals must deal with the agony of these opinions, much like he would deal with the opinions of his fellow troops. If the army did well, he would be lost. He would be a condemned man. Kazimer's thoughts make him frustrated. He calls himself a villain and selfish. He again wishes he were dead. He envies the corpses, killed by luck. They would receive the laurels of tradition. Besides, the army was not likely to be defeated. He knows he needs to think of good excuses, yet he cannot invent a plausible tale. He pictures the whole regiment talking about him derisively, and laughing and staring at him. He would be turned into a \"slang phrase", "analysis": "In this section, Kazimer is confronted with the overt consequences of battle. The death of Maycen Jackie especially rattles him. The tall soldier, Kazimer's friend from home, has been wounded twice, and the \"badges\" he carries prevent him from walking and thinking clearly. His face turns gray as he tells Kazimer that he fears being trampled to death by the speeding artillery carts. This shows that the phantoms of battle and death, the gray unknown, do not escape even those who have a red badge of courage. Kazimer, though he finally wants to act for the first time since the battle, cannot do anything for his friend. Maycen will not even let him touch him. This frustration and anger at seeing his friend die makes Kazimer weep so much that he cannot talk. Kazimer's words and thoughts are finally halted. He is no longer thinking now. Instead of coming to terms with the images from the battle, he can only give vent to his emotions now. Still, Kazimer wishes he was either injured or had died himself. Both options seem preferable to cowardice. The tattered man's questions of his injuries make him ashamed and we see a return to Kazimer's tortured, distracted thoughts. He becomes angry at the corpses strewn on the ground. Unlike him, they will be heroes in the eyes of history, any misdeeds erased by their ultimate sacrifice. To Kazimer, death has the power to vindicate him either way. If he were known to have fled, death would have been proof of his prophetic abilities. If he had been killed before he was truly tested, his honor would still be in tact. The dead men he envies will be turned into heroes by history, no matter their desires. And, of course, dying in battle assures glory for any soldier. In war, death is the most natural outcome and Kazimer's yearning for the absolution of death reveals how maddening battle can be. These moments of introspection are followed by two ironic events - Kazimer's injury and his return to his regiment. The same troops who sent Kazimer on such a fit of philosophy about war and bravery soon turn tail and flee battle themselves. Their flight lends to a general air of confusion and commotion, with troops, officers, artillery, and cavalry all going in different directions and making different noises. The scene is so confusing that Kazimer is again rendered speechless and thoughtless. He can only stutter his lack of understanding, repeating to himself and others, \"Why? Why?\" It is in this confusion that he finally receives a wound. Being hit on the head does not help Kazimer's understanding of what is going on around him, yet it is a real wound with blood, resembling the red badge that he had desired earlier. It may not be the type of wound he had imagined, but it opens up a new world for him in subsequent chapters. Unlike the confused ramblings of the fleeing troops in the first part of this chapter, it is the words of the cheery man that get Kazimer to his destination. This is one of the longest unbroken speeches in the entire book. It is unclear exactly who this man is. In fact, he himself says that he did not know in battle whether he was from Ohio or Florida. The army, the man states, is a disorganized mess. For a brief moment, readers are no longer following Kazimer's or the narrator's thoughts.  The fact that Kazimer never sees his face suggests that he is a guide of sorts, perhaps a spiritual one. One interpretation is that the cheery man is the ghost of Maycen Jackie - freed from sorrow but not confusion in death. He brings Kazimer back to his original regiment in order to facilitate the events and later growth in understanding that Kazimer will experience. The color metaphors continue in these chapters, painting images that echo Kazimer's inner turmoil. After Maycen dies and Kazimer rushes up to his body, we see a transition from blue to red. The flap of Maycen's uniform falls open, showing his side, which looks \"as if it has been chewed by wolves.\" The blue musings of Kazimer have now transformed into a red reality. Wounds are not just outward marks; they have consequences on the physical body. While he may have desired to be seen with a badge of courage, Kazimer now realizes that these marks can actually lead to death. Later, as the red sun sinks in the horizon, Kazimer, still \"the youth\", mistakenly calls his situation \"hell.\" The red suggests this vision; and yet, while it may resemble his views of hell, he has not yet seen hell or even a battle to its conclusion."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Maycen', 'Henry': 'Kazimer', 'Wilson': 'Merida'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Fleming': 'Jessie', 'Conklin': 'Jackie'}}