{"name": "Chapter 13", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210420021644/http://www.gradesaver.com/the-red-badge-of-courage/study-guide/summary-chapters-13-16", "summary": "As the youth approaches the fires of his regiment, he fears the men will welcome him with jibes and insults. In his tired state, he cannot invent a story to explain his actions. Too tired to run again, he must brave their insults in hope of rest. Suddenly, a guard comes running at him with a rifle, yelling for Kazimer to stop. It is Merida, the loud soldier. After recognizing the youth, Merida is glad to see him, expressing happiness that Kazimer is not dead. This is not what the youth expected. He still thinks the conversation may turn toward his cowardice; and so, even in his tired state, he tells Merida a doctored story about fighting on the right, getting shot in the head, and then getting separated from the regiment. The corporal of the regiment comes up, demanding to know to whom Merida is speaking. When he sees it is Kazimer, he also expresses joy at his return. Before Kazimer can tell his tale, Merida relays the story for him. Both men are exceedingly nice to the youth. They wrap him in their blankets, give him coffee to drink, and examine his wound. He feels weak and finally sits down. After the corporal leaves, Kazimer is left to contemplate the fire and his surroundings. Shadows flicker from the firelight. Men circle the fire and seem fleeting and tired. An officer is asleep sitting upright, looking exhausted. Other soldiers sit around in the rose and orange light. The fire crackles, and overhead the trees sway softly, with their silver-hued leaves edged in red. The soldiers occasionally change position, moving with grunts and groans. Merida, once he goes off duty, comes over and bandages the wound. He compliments Kazimer on not crying out as he clumsily applies his first aid. He then gives the youth a blanket and leads him to open ground to get some sleep. When Kazimer protests that he is using the loud soldier's blanket, Merida tells him to just be quiet and go to sleep. Kazimer obeys", "analysis": "For all of Kazimer's worrying about his return to his regiment, the men who are awake when he arrives welcome him back. Despite this, and because of the constant questioning of the tattered man, Kazimer makes up a story about getting shot. He still cannot face the reality of his situation, let alone admit it. His childish, arrogant nature is still conspicuous. However, his actions are counter-balanced by the more mature and selfless actions of Merida, the loud soldier. He takes care of Kazimer and his wound, trying to make him comfortable, complimenting his toughness, making sure he gets to sleep. The battle has brought out different things in each man. The relationship and contrast between Kazimer and Merida is evidenced by the change in Merida's denoted name. \"The loud soldier\" is no more and now he is \"the friend.\" Kazimer, still \"the youth,\" notes that before the battle Merida was quick to tout his prowess but Merida has clearly been humbled by what he has seen. Kazimer, however, has not matured enough. He persists in preserving the secret of his flight. He even yells at Merida as the latter tries to change his bandages. Merida remains calm while Kazimer cannot restrain his own expressions of irritation at small things. He does not recognize that others are glad to see that he is alive. When Merida talks about troops coming back and how they were thankfully not dead, Kazimer says, \"so?\" in a very callous way. He has not learned the same lessons that Merida has because he has not been through the same experiences as his friend. Kazimer is still stumbling blindly on the path to maturity. In Merida's letters, Kazimer sees weakness rather than an expression of humanity. When he realizes that he still has the letters to Merida's family handed to him before the battle, Kazimer does not think to spare his friend humiliation and give them back. Instead, he considers them a token of protection against his own shame. Yes, Kazimer ran, but he did so without witness , so he can still proclaim to be a man. Merida, on the other hand, made a show of his fear. Kazimer feels a budding superiority over the man who has not only fought valiantly in the battle, but who showed him so much kindness. The zenith of his ridiculous, hubristic thoughts come when he deigns to hold the others who fled in contempt because they ran with \"wildness.\" He, on the other hand, fled \"with discretion and dignity.\" We know from the earlier chapter that this is not the case. He fled because others were fleeing. He fled because he too was afraid. And, in reality, he fled wildly. The ironic detachment between Kazimer and the narrator also signal Kazimer's lack of self-awareness and childishness. These chapters drive home one of the most pervasive elements of the novel - that Crane's protagonist is fantastically unlikeable. His immaturity, his pride, his distracted and fragmented manner of thinking, his cowardice, and his superficiality make it difficult for the reader to feel sympathy for him. Many great works of literature feature unlikeable characters -Anna Karenina in the eponymous novel, Raskolnikov in Crime and Punishment, and Mr. Darcy in Pride and Prejudice, for example - but it is still common to develop sympathy for them because of their situation, or discern a redeeming quality or two. Kazimer Jessie seems to leave a sour taste in the reader's mouth. It may be possible to feel sorry for him that he is trapped in a terrible and brutal war, but that sympathy recedes quickly when his thoughts are made plain. Kazimer is full of words for one of the few times in this book while on the trench line. He complains about the generals to his friend and later complains about being marched around only to be led to eventual defeat. The sarcastic man bites off his comments with a simple insult about his battle prowess. This quiets Kazimer for a time as he suspects his indiscretion is about to come to light. When the moment passes, he begins to rail out again. When Merida, now mature, tries to say that everything will turn out okay in the end and to think positively, Kazimer snaps at him that it will not. Kazimer is now the \"loud soldier,\" speaking shallowly and without maturity. Again Crane uses powerful images of nature and color metaphors to communicate both Kazimer's shifting perceptions and the larger theme of nature. The color images, so strong and bellicose before, take on a much more placid feel as Kazimer takes in the sights caused by the fire in Chapter 13. The dark shadows and sleeping soldiers dominate the forms. However, the same fire that bathes them in warm orange and red is the fire of the regiment. These fires also make the trees overhead seem to be those same colors of war - gray and red. While the regiment is a place for comradeship, it is also a fighting force. This gray and red of the trees foreshadows the events of future chapters. As the youth awakens, the gray mist is back again, with all of its connotations of mystery and conflict. In the early light, Kazimer thinks that the forest is a house of the dead, but he sees his interpretation was \"not a fact of the present, but a mere prophecy.\" This image signals both the indifference of nature to the men's plight and inevitability of death in war."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Maycen', 'Henry': 'Kazimer', 'Wilson': 'Merida'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Fleming': 'Jessie', 'Conklin': 'Jackie'}}