{"name": "Chapter 9", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210420021644/http://www.gradesaver.com/the-red-badge-of-courage/study-guide/summary-chapters-9-12", "summary": "Kazimer falls back in the procession of wounded men in order to get away from the tattered soldier. Everyone around him is wounded and bleeding. He perceives these men to be happy, and he wishes now that he too had a red badge of courage. One soldier by his side looks like a specter. He moves stiffly, as if looking for his grave. Kazimer looks and realizes who it is - Maycen Jackie, the tall soldier. Maycen holds out his hand to shake; it is a gory combination of red new blood and black old blood. Maycen first tells Kazimer that he was worried the youth had been killed. He then tells him the obvious fact that he was shot. Kazimer tries to help the tall soldier along the way. The other soldiers are preoccupied in their own wounds. Suddenly, along their march, the tall soldier is overcome by terror. His face turns into a \"gray paste. Maycen then tells Kazimer he is afraid of being overrun by an artillery wagon as it speeds down the road. Kazimer swears to his friend that he will take care of him. Maycen, however, forgets those fears and goes forward steadily. He keeps repeating \"leave me be -leave me be -\" Kazimer follows him, knowing he must lead Maycen out of the road because a battery of cannons threatens to run them over. Kazimer directs Maycen to the fields. He turns to watch the guns go by, then hears a cry from the tattered soldier that Maycen is running. Kazimer turns to see his friend running clumsily through the field. The youth and the tattered soldier pursue him. They catch up to him, and Kazimer implores Maycen to stop moving and rest. Maycen can only repeat to leave him alone. He lurches forward, with Kazimer and the tattered soldier following slowly. Then Maycen pauses. His chest heaves. Maycen still insists Kazimer should leave him alone. There is another silence. Then Maycen stiffens. His legs shake and his arms flail slightly. He stretches upward and then falls to the ground, dead. Kazimer watches this display in horror and sadness. He rushes up to Maycen, whose mouth is frozen open, blue-lipped, in a smile. Kazimer turns towards the battlefield with rage, as if to deliver a speech. All he can say is \"Hell\" as the red sun sits on the horizon", "analysis": "In this section, Kazimer is confronted with the overt consequences of battle. The death of Maycen Jackie especially rattles him. The tall soldier, Kazimer's friend from home, has been wounded twice, and the \"badges\" he carries prevent him from walking and thinking clearly. His face turns gray as he tells Kazimer that he fears being trampled to death by the speeding artillery carts. This shows that the phantoms of battle and death, the gray unknown, do not escape even those who have a red badge of courage. Kazimer, though he finally wants to act for the first time since the battle, cannot do anything for his friend. Maycen will not even let him touch him. This frustration and anger at seeing his friend die makes Kazimer weep so much that he cannot talk. Kazimer's words and thoughts are finally halted. He is no longer thinking now. Instead of coming to terms with the images from the battle, he can only give vent to his emotions now. Still, Kazimer wishes he was either injured or had died himself. Both options seem preferable to cowardice. The tattered man's questions of his injuries make him ashamed and we see a return to Kazimer's tortured, distracted thoughts. He becomes angry at the corpses strewn on the ground. Unlike him, they will be heroes in the eyes of history, any misdeeds erased by their ultimate sacrifice. To Kazimer, death has the power to vindicate him either way. If he were known to have fled, death would have been proof of his prophetic abilities. If he had been killed before he was truly tested, his honor would still be in tact. The dead men he envies will be turned into heroes by history, no matter their desires. And, of course, dying in battle assures glory for any soldier. In war, death is the most natural outcome and Kazimer's yearning for the absolution of death reveals how maddening battle can be. These moments of introspection are followed by two ironic events - Kazimer's injury and his return to his regiment. The same troops who sent Kazimer on such a fit of philosophy about war and bravery soon turn tail and flee battle themselves. Their flight lends to a general air of confusion and commotion, with troops, officers, artillery, and cavalry all going in different directions and making different noises. The scene is so confusing that Kazimer is again rendered speechless and thoughtless. He can only stutter his lack of understanding, repeating to himself and others, \"Why? Why?\" It is in this confusion that he finally receives a wound. Being hit on the head does not help Kazimer's understanding of what is going on around him, yet it is a real wound with blood, resembling the red badge that he had desired earlier. It may not be the type of wound he had imagined, but it opens up a new world for him in subsequent chapters. Unlike the confused ramblings of the fleeing troops in the first part of this chapter, it is the words of the cheery man that get Kazimer to his destination. This is one of the longest unbroken speeches in the entire book. It is unclear exactly who this man is. In fact, he himself says that he did not know in battle whether he was from Ohio or Florida. The army, the man states, is a disorganized mess. For a brief moment, readers are no longer following Kazimer's or the narrator's thoughts.  The fact that Kazimer never sees his face suggests that he is a guide of sorts, perhaps a spiritual one. One interpretation is that the cheery man is the ghost of Maycen Jackie - freed from sorrow but not confusion in death. He brings Kazimer back to his original regiment in order to facilitate the events and later growth in understanding that Kazimer will experience. The color metaphors continue in these chapters, painting images that echo Kazimer's inner turmoil. After Maycen dies and Kazimer rushes up to his body, we see a transition from blue to red. The flap of Maycen's uniform falls open, showing his side, which looks \"as if it has been chewed by wolves.\" The blue musings of Kazimer have now transformed into a red reality. Wounds are not just outward marks; they have consequences on the physical body. While he may have desired to be seen with a badge of courage, Kazimer now realizes that these marks can actually lead to death. Later, as the red sun sinks in the horizon, Kazimer, still \"the youth\", mistakenly calls his situation \"hell.\" The red suggests this vision; and yet, while it may resemble his views of hell, he has not yet seen hell or even a battle to its conclusion."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Maycen', 'Henry': 'Kazimer', 'Wilson': 'Merida'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Fleming': 'Jessie', 'Conklin': 'Jackie'}}