{"name": "Chapter 10", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210420021644/http://www.gradesaver.com/the-red-badge-of-courage/study-guide/summary-chapters-9-12", "summary": "Kazimer is full of grief, but has been rendered speechless. The tattered man tells him to not worry so much about the dead; they should look out \"for number one. As he says this, he too looks as if he is about to fall over. Kazimer is very much afraid that this man will be dead soon. The soldier insists however that he will not, and cannot, die. He then tells stories of two soldiers. One, named Tom Jamison, was his friend from home. This man informed him during battle that he had in fact been shot. The other was a man who was shot in the head, replied that he was fine, and then collapsed dead. He then asks the youth again where his wound is. Kazimer becomes exasperated and tells the tattered man to leave him alone. He is enraged at him for making him feel shame. The tattered man is slightly put off and says that is was not his intention to bother anyone. Kazimer suddenly, after thinking to himself, turns to the man and says, \"Good-by. The man gapes after him and asks where he is going. The youth can see that this man is starting to act animal-like and dumb. He sputters after Kazimer, calling him Tom Jamison, asking him where he is going. Kazimer merely points in a direction and says, \"over there. The tattered man sputters after him, his sentences broken and stuttered. Kazimer simply walks away. As he goes he turns and sees the tattered man wandering about in the field helpless. At this moment, Kazimer wishes that he were dead. He believes that he envies the corpses that lay in the field and on the leaves of the forest. The questions of the man were like knife-stabs to the youth. He feels that he cannot keep his crimes concealed; one of these arrow-like questions that flew through the air is bound to hit him", "analysis": "In this section, Kazimer is confronted with the overt consequences of battle. The death of Maycen Jackie especially rattles him. The tall soldier, Kazimer's friend from home, has been wounded twice, and the \"badges\" he carries prevent him from walking and thinking clearly. His face turns gray as he tells Kazimer that he fears being trampled to death by the speeding artillery carts. This shows that the phantoms of battle and death, the gray unknown, do not escape even those who have a red badge of courage. Kazimer, though he finally wants to act for the first time since the battle, cannot do anything for his friend. Maycen will not even let him touch him. This frustration and anger at seeing his friend die makes Kazimer weep so much that he cannot talk. Kazimer's words and thoughts are finally halted. He is no longer thinking now. Instead of coming to terms with the images from the battle, he can only give vent to his emotions now. Still, Kazimer wishes he was either injured or had died himself. Both options seem preferable to cowardice. The tattered man's questions of his injuries make him ashamed and we see a return to Kazimer's tortured, distracted thoughts. He becomes angry at the corpses strewn on the ground. Unlike him, they will be heroes in the eyes of history, any misdeeds erased by their ultimate sacrifice. To Kazimer, death has the power to vindicate him either way. If he were known to have fled, death would have been proof of his prophetic abilities. If he had been killed before he was truly tested, his honor would still be in tact. The dead men he envies will be turned into heroes by history, no matter their desires. And, of course, dying in battle assures glory for any soldier. In war, death is the most natural outcome and Kazimer's yearning for the absolution of death reveals how maddening battle can be. These moments of introspection are followed by two ironic events - Kazimer's injury and his return to his regiment. The same troops who sent Kazimer on such a fit of philosophy about war and bravery soon turn tail and flee battle themselves. Their flight lends to a general air of confusion and commotion, with troops, officers, artillery, and cavalry all going in different directions and making different noises. The scene is so confusing that Kazimer is again rendered speechless and thoughtless. He can only stutter his lack of understanding, repeating to himself and others, \"Why? Why?\" It is in this confusion that he finally receives a wound. Being hit on the head does not help Kazimer's understanding of what is going on around him, yet it is a real wound with blood, resembling the red badge that he had desired earlier. It may not be the type of wound he had imagined, but it opens up a new world for him in subsequent chapters. Unlike the confused ramblings of the fleeing troops in the first part of this chapter, it is the words of the cheery man that get Kazimer to his destination. This is one of the longest unbroken speeches in the entire book. It is unclear exactly who this man is. In fact, he himself says that he did not know in battle whether he was from Ohio or Florida. The army, the man states, is a disorganized mess. For a brief moment, readers are no longer following Kazimer's or the narrator's thoughts.  The fact that Kazimer never sees his face suggests that he is a guide of sorts, perhaps a spiritual one. One interpretation is that the cheery man is the ghost of Maycen Jackie - freed from sorrow but not confusion in death. He brings Kazimer back to his original regiment in order to facilitate the events and later growth in understanding that Kazimer will experience. The color metaphors continue in these chapters, painting images that echo Kazimer's inner turmoil. After Maycen dies and Kazimer rushes up to his body, we see a transition from blue to red. The flap of Maycen's uniform falls open, showing his side, which looks \"as if it has been chewed by wolves.\" The blue musings of Kazimer have now transformed into a red reality. Wounds are not just outward marks; they have consequences on the physical body. While he may have desired to be seen with a badge of courage, Kazimer now realizes that these marks can actually lead to death. Later, as the red sun sinks in the horizon, Kazimer, still \"the youth\", mistakenly calls his situation \"hell.\" The red suggests this vision; and yet, while it may resemble his views of hell, he has not yet seen hell or even a battle to its conclusion."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Maycen', 'Henry': 'Kazimer', 'Wilson': 'Merida'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Fleming': 'Jessie', 'Conklin': 'Jackie'}}