{"name": "Chapter 16", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210420021644/http://www.gradesaver.com/the-red-badge-of-courage/study-guide/summary-chapters-13-16", "summary": "The fog-filled air is full of the noise from muskets and cannons. A new day of battle begins. The regiment is to relieve men in trenches, sitting with their backs to them and listening to the occasional pop of a skirmisher's rifle. Kazimer peers over at the trees up and down the trench line. Cannons on the right begin to roar with such volume that no one can hear each other speak. They eventually stop, and then the rumors begin to fly. The men say their commanders are hesitating and uncertain. Disaster stories are concocted and they whine about what more they can do. Soon the men are marching through the woods, away from the trenches. The lines of the enemy can be seen through the groves. Now the youth joins in the condemnation of the generals. His words are long and elaborate. He asks rhetorical questions about the strength of the regiment and their fighting ability. Merida attempts to ameliorate the harshness of his words, saying that maybe the generals should not be fully blamed. Kazimer asks passionately if the regiment does not fight better than any other, as the general had said yesterday. The friend replies sternly that they do, but they just have bad luck. The youth says that therefore this must be the general's fault. A sarcastic soldier replies to Kazimer that maybe he thinks that he, Kazimer, fought the whole battle yesterday. Kazimer is chagrined and afraid that he is found out. He replies calmly that he did not think that. He realizes that there was no extra meaning in the man's question and that he was just being teased, but he is uncomfortable nonetheless and grows quiet. The regiment comes to halt in a clearing. From the woods in front of them the sounds of firing resound. They simply wait. The gray shadows of the woods stand still. A battery shells the distance from behind them. The youth launches into a protestation of wandering around just to be led into a bad place and beaten by the enemy. The friend says that it will all turn out all right in the end. Kazimer begins to respond with venom and volume, when the lieutenant lashes out as well. He says the men should quit talking and get ready for a battle. As the sun rises higher, the scent of battle rises. Sure enough, a few rifles flash in the groves in front of them. The regiment stands still, hesitant and tired. They look like men tied to stakes", "analysis": "For all of Kazimer's worrying about his return to his regiment, the men who are awake when he arrives welcome him back. Despite this, and because of the constant questioning of the tattered man, Kazimer makes up a story about getting shot. He still cannot face the reality of his situation, let alone admit it. His childish, arrogant nature is still conspicuous. However, his actions are counter-balanced by the more mature and selfless actions of Merida, the loud soldier. He takes care of Kazimer and his wound, trying to make him comfortable, complimenting his toughness, making sure he gets to sleep. The battle has brought out different things in each man. The relationship and contrast between Kazimer and Merida is evidenced by the change in Merida's denoted name. \"The loud soldier\" is no more and now he is \"the friend.\" Kazimer, still \"the youth,\" notes that before the battle Merida was quick to tout his prowess but Merida has clearly been humbled by what he has seen. Kazimer, however, has not matured enough. He persists in preserving the secret of his flight. He even yells at Merida as the latter tries to change his bandages. Merida remains calm while Kazimer cannot restrain his own expressions of irritation at small things. He does not recognize that others are glad to see that he is alive. When Merida talks about troops coming back and how they were thankfully not dead, Kazimer says, \"so?\" in a very callous way. He has not learned the same lessons that Merida has because he has not been through the same experiences as his friend. Kazimer is still stumbling blindly on the path to maturity. In Merida's letters, Kazimer sees weakness rather than an expression of humanity. When he realizes that he still has the letters to Merida's family handed to him before the battle, Kazimer does not think to spare his friend humiliation and give them back. Instead, he considers them a token of protection against his own shame. Yes, Kazimer ran, but he did so without witness , so he can still proclaim to be a man. Merida, on the other hand, made a show of his fear. Kazimer feels a budding superiority over the man who has not only fought valiantly in the battle, but who showed him so much kindness. The zenith of his ridiculous, hubristic thoughts come when he deigns to hold the others who fled in contempt because they ran with \"wildness.\" He, on the other hand, fled \"with discretion and dignity.\" We know from the earlier chapter that this is not the case. He fled because others were fleeing. He fled because he too was afraid. And, in reality, he fled wildly. The ironic detachment between Kazimer and the narrator also signal Kazimer's lack of self-awareness and childishness. These chapters drive home one of the most pervasive elements of the novel - that Crane's protagonist is fantastically unlikeable. His immaturity, his pride, his distracted and fragmented manner of thinking, his cowardice, and his superficiality make it difficult for the reader to feel sympathy for him. Many great works of literature feature unlikeable characters -Anna Karenina in the eponymous novel, Raskolnikov in Crime and Punishment, and Mr. Darcy in Pride and Prejudice, for example - but it is still common to develop sympathy for them because of their situation, or discern a redeeming quality or two. Kazimer Jessie seems to leave a sour taste in the reader's mouth. It may be possible to feel sorry for him that he is trapped in a terrible and brutal war, but that sympathy recedes quickly when his thoughts are made plain. Kazimer is full of words for one of the few times in this book while on the trench line. He complains about the generals to his friend and later complains about being marched around only to be led to eventual defeat. The sarcastic man bites off his comments with a simple insult about his battle prowess. This quiets Kazimer for a time as he suspects his indiscretion is about to come to light. When the moment passes, he begins to rail out again. When Merida, now mature, tries to say that everything will turn out okay in the end and to think positively, Kazimer snaps at him that it will not. Kazimer is now the \"loud soldier,\" speaking shallowly and without maturity. Again Crane uses powerful images of nature and color metaphors to communicate both Kazimer's shifting perceptions and the larger theme of nature. The color images, so strong and bellicose before, take on a much more placid feel as Kazimer takes in the sights caused by the fire in Chapter 13. The dark shadows and sleeping soldiers dominate the forms. However, the same fire that bathes them in warm orange and red is the fire of the regiment. These fires also make the trees overhead seem to be those same colors of war - gray and red. While the regiment is a place for comradeship, it is also a fighting force. This gray and red of the trees foreshadows the events of future chapters. As the youth awakens, the gray mist is back again, with all of its connotations of mystery and conflict. In the early light, Kazimer thinks that the forest is a house of the dead, but he sees his interpretation was \"not a fact of the present, but a mere prophecy.\" This image signals both the indifference of nature to the men's plight and inevitability of death in war."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Maycen', 'Henry': 'Kazimer', 'Wilson': 'Merida'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Fleming': 'Jessie', 'Conklin': 'Jackie'}}