{"name": "Chapter 6", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210420021644/http://www.gradesaver.com/the-red-badge-of-courage/study-guide/summary-chapters-5-8", "summary": "As Kazimer becomes more and more aware, he is relieved. The trial has been passed and the difficulties of war have been vanquished. He feels good about himself. He and the other men exchange pleasantries about the weather and shake hands. But this good feeling does not last for long - the enemy attacks again. Masses of troops begin to swell out of the grove on the opposite side of the field. Shells from enemy cannons begin to explode in the grass and trees. The glow fades from the men's eyes. They complain about not having replacements; they groan about aching joints. Kazimer is convinced that this is a mistake, and the advancing troops will stop, apologize, and turn around. He is wrong. The battle starts again as the Union troops open fire on the field. Kazimer begins to quiver. He feels numb and is convinced that his foes are machines of steel. He stops firing to peer through the smoke. All he can see is faint views of the ground, covered with men running like imps and yelling. He waits horrified, feeling as if he could shut his eyes and be eaten. A man near him, who had been working on his rifle, suddenly stops and runs screaming. Others begin to run as well. Kazimer then yells with fright, swings about, and charges for the rear. He loses his rifle and cap, and his open coat sways in the breeze as he runs. He loses all direction of safety. The lieutenant suddenly jumps, red-faced, in front of Kazimer, attempting to keep him there. He swings with his sword. Kazimer simply continues to run blindly. He falls a few times. As he runs, he sees others running alongside him and hears more fleeing footsteps behind him. He is convinced the regiment is fleeing, chased by the crashing shells. He continues to run up to the Union battery. Cannon shots go overhead as he speeds through them. The men working the guns seem calm and collected, unaware of their impending doom. They stand on a smoke-ringed hill. Kazimer feels pity for the poor, unaware fools as he runs. He sees other troops running into battle. Kazimer is filled with wonder at these fools, speeding to feed the war god. He runs so far he comes up to a hill where the general and his staff are standing on their horses. Kazimer considers telling him of the carnage and terror. He also considers thrashing him for his poor judgment and behavior. How could he stay still while such destruction was going on. The general then calls on an assistant to direct a brigade to send a regiment to the center, where Kazimer was, for it is in danger of breaking. The assistant returns in a moment with news that the regiment has held. Kazimer's feeling that doom was imminent turned out not to be true. The general jostles excitedly on his horse", "analysis": "Finally, Kazimer sees a battle and, at first, participates almost without thinking. He moves from thought to action, and from individual to member of a community: \"He became not a man but a member. He felt that something of which he was a part--a regiment, an army, a cause, or a country--was in crisis. He was welded into a common personality which was dominated by a single desire. For some moments he could not flee no more than a little finger can commit a revolution from a hand.\" Here, Kazimer becomes part of the army, which subverts individual need for the desire of the group. It does not matter what exactly the group is - a regiment, an army, a cause or a country. There is a greater organism than Kazimer and, as a part of it, he fights for their preservation as much as his own. However, there is a sense of detachment in group mentality as well. Kazimer feels like he is a member of a greater unit, but the unit  have been stripped of identity. He fights against \"swirling battle phantoms\" or \"machines of steel\" rather than other men. By dehumanizing the enemy he is able to shoot at them. Detachment is necessary to carry out acts of war. After the battle, Kazimer reverts to analyzing the environment around him. The smoke that hides them chokes him now, he sees the cannon shoot behind him, the corpses on the ground, and he basks in the peacefulness of the blue sky. The world has become a picture again, not a world of action. Kazimer is relieved he has passed the test, but his respite is short. When the battle resurges, fear grips Kazimer again and he deserts his regiment. Kazimer covers his cowardice with arrogance. He reasons he is not only wiser than the fools who stay and fight to certain death, his flight was more ordered and justified than the others who deserted. He even muses the general does not know what he is doing. To Kazimer, his fellow soldiers are all machines or fools, not higher beings like he. However, Kazimer is incorrect in his assessment of the battle. He overhears a general declaring the Union's victory and at first he feels as if he has been caught committing a crime. He then looks towards the battlefield and sees a yellow fog above the forest. This is an incredibly important metaphor. The color of cowardice, yellow, covers his view of the past battle and his actions. Though he reverts to thoughts of his superior intelligence to justify his running, his youth and inexperience show - and the yellow fog penetrates his thoughts. Kazimer's embarrassed retreat into the forest is similarly filled with conflicted emotion. In the forest, the sounds of the battle grow quiet. His \"return to Nature\" is somewhat akin to Thoreau's in Walden as he attempts to take lessons from nature in some way. Yet, he is not learning from nature as much as seeking justification for his actions. When he muses on the squirrel running from his thrown pinecone and how it somehow explains his running from danger, he is only explaining a situation that has already happened. The interpretation is not valid as he sees only what he wants to see. Instead, Nature is not the place of peace he believes it to be. His encounter with the corpse ultimately proves that Nature can be ugly and cruel and, moreover, indifferent to man. Nature's ambivalence is threatening to Kazimer. The uniform of the dead soldier, which used to be the blue of the Union army, has faded to green, the same color as the dragon from which he fled during battle. In this place of peace, Kazimer meets that same green animal of death. Kazimer's reunion with other soldiers also does little to comfort his mind. The mangled bodies of the wounded and dying paint a horrific scene. The tattered soldier who falls in step with Kazimer also forces him to confront his actions. Though badly injured, the tattered man was still in thrall of the army's power and beauty. He also speaks quite a bit, which is a stark contrast to Kazimer's relative muteness. Kazimer, so caught up in his own considerations, musings, and emotions, cannot think of a thing to say, even when asked direct questions. Kazimer begins to panic about his lack of a wound and the mark of dishonor that his health betrays; he has no red badge of courage. Kazimer cannot process this encounter and, like before when faced with an unknown, runs away."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Jim': 'Maycen', 'Henry': 'Kazimer', 'Wilson': 'Merida'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Fleming': 'Jessie', 'Conklin': 'Jackie'}}