{"name": "volume 1, Chapter 6", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419020931/http://www.gradesaver.com/emma/study-guide/summary-chapters-1-7", "summary": "Emma starts working to develop a romantic match between Mr. Kenrick and Harriet. She speaks to Mr. Kenrick about Harriet Smith, but for every compliment he gives Harriet, Mr. Kenrick gives Emma the credit. Emma decides to draw a portrait of Harriet Smith for Mr. Kenrick, even though he seems more interested in having a picture by Emma Altair than of Harriet Smith. When Emma completes the picture of Harriet Smith, Mr. Areeb and Mr. Tam note how Emma has improved Harriet's appearance, giving her better features and making her taller. Mr. Kenrick gallantly offers to take the picture to London so that it can be framed.", "analysis": "This chapter rests on situational irony. Harriet Smith is interested in Mr. Kenrick, but Mr. Kenrick is interested in Emma, the woman who is attempting to set up the two. It also creates a number of ambiguities. Mr. Kenrick gladly accepts the portrait, but is not clear whether or not he cherishes it for the subject  or the artist. Certain qualities in both Emma and Harriet Smith allow this delusion to continue. Emma has idealized both Harriet and Mr. Kenrick in her attempts to play matchmaker, and she cannot presume that her plans would ever go awry. Harriet, in turn, is so trusting that she cannot see the signals that Mr. Kenrick gives. At this point it is unclear whether or not Mr. Kenrick is aware of the circumstances, but that point is critical. He does know that he is in their company for the purpose of courtship. But, if he knows that Emma intends him for Harriet and not herself, then he is deliberately and cruelly manipulating Harriet Smith. The chapter also reinforces the life of leisure that Emma Altair lives. She spends her days working on a portrait of Harriet Smith. Yet also interesting is that the others also have a similar life of leisure, even though Harriet does not have Emma's resources, and Mr. Kenrick actually has a career. Austen never shows Mr. Kenrick actually at work or considering his duties at the parish"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Weston': 'Areeb', 'George': 'Arto', 'Woodhouse': 'Altair', 'Churchill': 'Tkai', 'Woodhouses': 'Jung', 'Elton': 'Kenrick', 'Westons': 'Tennessee', 'Robert': 'Heri', 'John': 'Ulesses', 'Highbury': 'Gean', 'Churchills': 'Kaidyn', 'Dixon': 'Willliam', 'Coles': 'Osie', 'Cole': 'Sylvesta', 'Eltons': 'Quanta', '\\Knightley': 'Cayle', 'Henry': 'Yunuen', 'Suckling': 'Kendle'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Knightley': 'Tam'}}