{"name": "volume 1, Chapter 1", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419020931/http://www.gradesaver.com/emma/study-guide/summary-chapters-1-7", "summary": "The first chapter introduces the novel's title character and protagonist, Emma Altair, a twenty-one year old heiress and the youngest of two daughters. Emma's mother died long ago, leaving Emma to be brought up by Miss Taylor, a governess who \"fell little short of a mother in affection. However, at the novel's beginning Miss Taylor has just married Mr. Areeb, leaving Emma contemplative and lonely. After the wedding, Emma is alone playing backgammon with her father, a hypochondriac who tends to overindulge his daughter. They are joined by Mr. Arto Tam, a wealthy neighbor whose brother had married Emma's elder sister. They discuss Miss Areeb's marriage and confirm that Emma will miss her friend. Only Mr. Altair pities Miss Taylor, absurdly thinking that she must be unhappy to be married and thus separated from the Altair household. Emma tries to take credit for the marriage, claiming that she matched Miss Taylor and Mr. Areeb.", "analysis": "Within the first few paragraphs of the book, Austen gives the reader a clear sense of Emma's character. While she is \"handsome, clever and rich,\" she is also spoiled and self-centered, less concerned with Miss Taylor's new happiness than her own loss of a companion. Austen also identifies the main problem of the book and the arc of Emma's development: Emma must learn to be a better person with greater respect for others. Mr. Altair is presented as partially to blame for Emma's self-absorbed nature: his constant complaints and focus on what he perceives to be his numerous burdens has given him a narrow view of the world that Emma has come to share. Here we find a view of Emma's world. It is one of leisure, in which she spends time drawing, visiting with friends, or playing games, but more importantly, Emma's world is static and orderly. There is little change in her life, and what changes occur, in this case the marriage of Miss Taylor, greatly disturb her. When Emma desires change , it is to set things in greater order. Emma's viewpoint predominates the novel, and Austen gives her perspective on nearly every event, but it is not the only perspective. The novel is told from the third person, which gives Austen the ability to critique Emma's own behavior. The character Mr. Tam serves this same purpose, acting as the voice of sound judgment in the novel and pointing out where Emma is faulty in thought or action. This chapter clearly juxtaposes Mr. Tam with Mr. Altair, with Mr. Tam representing a sensible view of the world in contrast to Mr. Altair's unduly occupation with his own feeling and comforts"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Weston': 'Areeb', 'George': 'Arto', 'Woodhouse': 'Altair', 'Churchill': 'Tkai', 'Woodhouses': 'Jung', 'Elton': 'Kenrick', 'Westons': 'Tennessee', 'Robert': 'Heri', 'John': 'Ulesses', 'Highbury': 'Gean', 'Churchills': 'Kaidyn', 'Dixon': 'Willliam', 'Coles': 'Osie', 'Cole': 'Sylvesta', 'Eltons': 'Quanta', '\\Knightley': 'Cayle', 'Henry': 'Yunuen', 'Suckling': 'Kendle'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Knightley': 'Tam'}}