{"name": "volume 3, Chapter 38", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419020931/http://www.gradesaver.com/emma/study-guide/summary-chapters-36-42", "summary": "Frank Tkai behaves oddly towards Emma at the ball at the Crown Inn. During the first dance, Emma and Frank dance second to Mr. Areeb and Mrs. Kenrick, and Mrs. Kenrick is completely gratified by this. Emma wishes that she could like Frank better than she actually does. When Mrs. Areeb encourages Mr. Kenrick to dance with Harriet, he blatantly refuses, much to Harriet's humiliation. To recover Harriet's dignity, Mr. Tam asks her to dance. After the ball, Mr. Tam tells Emma that the Kenricks' intention was to wound both Emma and Harriet. They cannot forgive her for wanting Harriet to marry Mr. Kenrick.", "analysis": "Although Emma enjoys Frank Tkai's company and his attention during the Crown Inn ball, this is the extent of her feelings. The only regret she feels is that she cannot feel more towards him. The two can now be completely comfortable with each other's company. Nevertheless, all is not right with Frank Tkai. He is in an uncharacteristically bad mood during the ball, yet the reason remains as yet unclear. The Kenricks' actions in this chapter continue to develop the theme of propriety and the difference between overt behavior and subtle signals. Mr. Kenrick does not do anything outwardly rude toward Harriet, but it is clear that he intends to snub and humiliate her. The Kenricks hide behind the facade of propriety, but their behavior is anything but well-mannered. It is important that Harriet is the victim of the snub rather than Emma because she is an easy target. They can snub the socially inferior Harriet with few consequences, but a similar snub against Emma could not be tolerated. In rescuing Harriet Smith from humiliation, Mr. Tam is the paragon of behavior for Emma. For the first time he exhibits a change of behavior toward Harriet: he admits her positive qualities and takes pity on her situation. This is not the only change in Mr. Tam: his feelings toward Emma become more clear. He dismisses the idea that Emma and he are like siblings, giving greater indication of possible romantic feelings"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Weston': 'Areeb', 'George': 'Arto', 'Woodhouse': 'Altair', 'Churchill': 'Tkai', 'Woodhouses': 'Jung', 'Elton': 'Kenrick', 'Westons': 'Tennessee', 'Robert': 'Heri', 'John': 'Ulesses', 'Highbury': 'Gean', 'Churchills': 'Kaidyn', 'Dixon': 'Willliam', 'Coles': 'Osie', 'Cole': 'Sylvesta', 'Eltons': 'Quanta', '\\Knightley': 'Cayle', 'Henry': 'Yunuen', 'Suckling': 'Kendle'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Knightley': 'Tam'}}