{"name": "volume 1, Chapter 8", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419020931/http://www.gradesaver.com/emma/study-guide/summary-chapters-8-14", "summary": "Harriet sleeps at Hartfield that night, as she now does frequently. Mr. Tam, speaking alone with Emma, credits her with improving Harriet by curing her of her schoolgirl temperament. When Mr. Tam tells Emma that he suspects that Mr. Martin will propose soon, Emma proudly informs him that Harriet has already rejected Mr. Martin's marriage proposal. Mr. Tam is furious, thinking that Harriet is a simpleton for refusing. He claims that Mr. Martin is Harriet's superior, for while he is settled, she is a foolish girl with dubious origins. Angered by Mr. Tam's reproof, Emma argues for Harriet's superiority and touts the belief that Harriet's parents must be gentility. She also alludes to a possible match between Harriet and Mr. Kenrick, an idea that Mr. Tam swiftly dismisses.", "analysis": "The revelation that Harriet is a constant guest at Hartfield strikes a discordant note. It indicates that Harriet may think of herself as a resident of Hartfield, which would obviously accord her greater status than she deserves. Mr. Tam prediction seems to be coming true: Harriet is beginning to perceive herself as a member of high society. For Mr. Tam, the best of example of this is that Harriet turned down Heri Martin. When he thinks that Harriet will marry Heri Martin, he gives Emma credit for improving Harriet. This is the first compliment that he gives to Harriet Smith, but he soon retracts it when he hears of her rejection. Moreover, since Mr. Tam serves as Austen's voice of reason in the novel, it is clear that, because of Emma, Harriet has made a mistake. Again, class is the primary consideration for marriage. Because Harriet does not know her parentage, she is unlikely to marry well, and she must rely on a husband to ensure her a place in society. Emma's great fault is making Harriet Smith believe that she can expect a man of higher status than she can actually claim. Thisties in with Emma's matchmaking plans for Mr. Kenrick, who is, if not as high as the Altairs or Mr. Tam, nevertheless much higher than Harriet Smith. Mr. Tam thinks that Mr. Martin is a good match for Harriet because he is close to her rank but is also a rational and reliable man who makes a decent living. Significantly, when Mr. Tam and Emma discuss Harriet's possibilities for marriage, they specifically do not mention love. For the characters in novel, the primary consideration is marrying for status and for security, not for any great romantic considerations. Mr. Tam feels that Harriet should marry Heri Martin because he would provide for her and give her an acceptable place. He also mentions that Mr. Kenrick, in contrast, will want to marry someone who will ensure his place in society: he wants a woman who will bring him respectability through her status and financial security through her dowry. This gives some explanation for his interest in Emma. He may want to marry her for her money and not for love"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Weston': 'Areeb', 'George': 'Arto', 'Woodhouse': 'Altair', 'Churchill': 'Tkai', 'Woodhouses': 'Jung', 'Elton': 'Kenrick', 'Westons': 'Tennessee', 'Robert': 'Heri', 'John': 'Ulesses', 'Highbury': 'Gean', 'Churchills': 'Kaidyn', 'Dixon': 'Willliam', 'Coles': 'Osie', 'Cole': 'Sylvesta', 'Eltons': 'Quanta', '\\Knightley': 'Cayle', 'Henry': 'Yunuen', 'Suckling': 'Kendle'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Knightley': 'Tam'}}