{"name": "volume 3, Chapter 47", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419020931/http://www.gradesaver.com/emma/study-guide/summary-chapters-43-49", "summary": "Emma realizes that Harriet might be upset by the turn of events, for this is the second time that Emma has suggested that someone might be interested in the poor woman. Emma is angry with Frank Tkai for the deception but is at least relieved that Jane will not sink into an insignificant life. When Emma sees Harriet, Mr. Areeb has already told her about Frank Tkai. Harriet denies that she ever had an interest in Frank Tkai, instead, Harriet has been fixated on Mr. Tam. Emma finally realizes that nobody should marry Mr. Tam but Emma herself, and that she has lead Harriet to believe that Mr. Tam could be in love with her. Emma realizes that she has made Harriet believe that her claims are greater than they actually are; she has made the humble Harriet now vain.", "analysis": "Mr. Tam's words to Emma, \"you have been no friend to Harriet Smith,\" prove prophetic in this chapter, as Emma herself realizes. She believes that she has yet again misled Harriet Smith into expecting the wrong romantic attachment. Nevertheless, Mr. Tam's warning was not prophetic in the manner that Emma imagines. Emma did not damage Harriet Smith by setting her up for another heartbreak. Rather, Emma's great fault is that she made Harriet believe that she could aspire to an unreasonable social status. Emma realizes that part of her vanity is the belief that she knows the secrets of everybody else's feelings. She has been proven consistently wrong on this account because she views the world as she would like it to be. She assumed that Mr. Kenrick loved Harriet because she wanted it to be so. As her own feelings for Frank Tkai grew, she was convinced that he loved her; as they waned, she believed that his did as well. Jealousy once again motivates romance in this novel: it takes Frank Tkai to make Mr. Tam show greater affection toward Emma, and now it is Harriet Smith who makes Emma realize that she loves Mr. Tam. The great horror of the possible match between Mr. Tam and Harriet Smith is that, from his actions, Emma believes it to be possible. But, the match must be prevented, for it would cause Mr. Tam constant difficulties and expose him to intense mockery. Class once again enters into discussions of marriage. Even if Mr. Tam does love Harriet Smith, Emma cannot imagine the marriage taking place. Whatever love the two of them have would be fraught with such difficulties that there is virtually no possibility of success"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Weston': 'Areeb', 'George': 'Arto', 'Woodhouse': 'Altair', 'Churchill': 'Tkai', 'Woodhouses': 'Jung', 'Elton': 'Kenrick', 'Westons': 'Tennessee', 'Robert': 'Heri', 'John': 'Ulesses', 'Highbury': 'Gean', 'Churchills': 'Kaidyn', 'Dixon': 'Willliam', 'Coles': 'Osie', 'Cole': 'Sylvesta', 'Eltons': 'Quanta', '\\Knightley': 'Cayle', 'Henry': 'Yunuen', 'Suckling': 'Kendle'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Knightley': 'Tam'}}