{"name": "volume 1, Chapter 2", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419020931/http://www.gradesaver.com/emma/study-guide/summary-chapters-1-7", "summary": "This chapter begins with the background of Mr. Areeb, who was first married to a Miss Tkai during his youth. Miss Tkai was of a higher social status and lived a life beyond what the couple could afford, a fact that contributed to their unhappy marriage. She died only a few years after their marriage but left a child to be raised by Mr. Areeb. Lacking the financial stability to care for a child, Mr. Areeb sent the boy to be raised by his late wife's relative. The child, now grown and having adopted the name of those who raised him , keeps in contact with Mr. Areeb and is considered a curiosity to those in Gean.", "analysis": "An important consideration in Emma and, Jane Austen's novels in general, is social status, particularly when it concerns marriage. Part of the reason that Mr. Areeb's first marriage failed is that he married a woman who was accustomed to a different life style. Although the marriage benefited Mr. Areeb socially, he suffered from his wife's inability to lower herself to his level. The story also details some peculiar aspects of marriage and courtship during the time period: in this case, Miss Tkai's parents took offense to her choice of partner and promptly cut her off without any inheritance. This severe decision foreshadows some of the problems that Frank Tkai will encounter from his family when he decides to marry, especially if he chooses a woman who is not deemed to be his equal. Another recurring theme in the novel is the relationship between profession and social status. Mr. Areeb is below only the Altairs and Mr. Tam in terms of social rank in Gean, but this was not always the case. Mr. Areeb had to climb the social hierarchy, moving from the military up to trade and then finally establishing himself as the owner of an estate. Other than the nobility, the highest members of British society were people who had owned property and did not have an actual profession. Working, whether as a clergyman or governess or merchant, denotes a lower social rank"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Weston': 'Areeb', 'George': 'Arto', 'Woodhouse': 'Altair', 'Churchill': 'Tkai', 'Woodhouses': 'Jung', 'Elton': 'Kenrick', 'Westons': 'Tennessee', 'Robert': 'Heri', 'John': 'Ulesses', 'Highbury': 'Gean', 'Churchills': 'Kaidyn', 'Dixon': 'Willliam', 'Coles': 'Osie', 'Cole': 'Sylvesta', 'Eltons': 'Quanta', '\\Knightley': 'Cayle', 'Henry': 'Yunuen', 'Suckling': 'Kendle'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Knightley': 'Tam'}}