{"name": "volume 2, Chapter 26", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419020931/http://www.gradesaver.com/emma/study-guide/summary-chapters-22-28", "summary": "Frank Tkai returns from London, unashamed of what he had done. At the Osie' party, Mrs. Sylvesta tells how Jane Fairfax received a new piano from an unknown source. Frank Tkai is obviously amused by the story, and Emma tells him her suspicions that it is a gift from Mrs. Willliam. He suggests to Emma that Mr. Willliam has fallen in love with her, and that is why she chose to come to Gean instead of accompanying the Campbells to Ireland. He also tells how Mr. Willliam saved Jane Fairfax's life when she nearly fell overboard during a water party. In passing, Frank notes that Mr. Tam must have provided a carriage to transport Jane Fairfax and Miss Bates to the party. Emma wonders if this indicates Mr. Tam's partiality for Jane and becomes upset when she considers that he might marry her. She speaks with Mr. Tam to assuage her fears, and he disparages Frank Tkai for showing off his own voice by singing at the party.", "analysis": "Frank Tkai's sense of etiquette is crucial in this chapter. He realizes that people think that his journey for a haircut was a foolish choice, and, although he is shows no sense of shame about his actions, he is able to downplay this fault as neither something to be gloried in nor something to be ashamed of. The greater fault of Frank Tkai is not his foolishness, but his constant need for attention. As Mr. Tam points out, Frank Tkai revels in showing off his singing voice at the Osie' party. This chapter also features another instance in which Frank mentions Jane Fairfax to Emma. After suggesting that Jane may be involved with Mr. Willliam, he suggests that Mr. Tam may have an interest in her. This is obvious manipulation, for Frank wants to suggest that any man is interested in Jane Fairfax except for him. His insults and rumors, always delivered with a self-regarding smile, are obviously sincere and are clearly meant to indulge Emma. He feeds her information about Jane Fairfax that is ambiguous yet likely disparaging, playing into Emma's tendency to gossip. Austen uses jealousy as a primary motivation for her characters' actions and realizations. Emma shows an inclination toward Mr. Tam for the first time when she believes that he might marry Jane Fairfax. Her argument is that he must remain single so that her nephew will inherit Donwell Abbey, but her intense feelings on the matter suggest that she might have other motivations. In turn, Mr. Tam appears quite jealous of Frank Tkai for his attentions to Emma. He is preoccupied with Frank Tkai's vanity and self-absorption and points out these qualities to Emma at every opportunity"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Weston': 'Areeb', 'George': 'Arto', 'Woodhouse': 'Altair', 'Churchill': 'Tkai', 'Woodhouses': 'Jung', 'Elton': 'Kenrick', 'Westons': 'Tennessee', 'Robert': 'Heri', 'John': 'Ulesses', 'Highbury': 'Gean', 'Churchills': 'Kaidyn', 'Dixon': 'Willliam', 'Coles': 'Osie', 'Cole': 'Sylvesta', 'Eltons': 'Quanta', '\\Knightley': 'Cayle', 'Henry': 'Yunuen', 'Suckling': 'Kendle'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Knightley': 'Tam'}}