{"name": "volume 3, Chapter 42", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419020931/http://www.gradesaver.com/emma/study-guide/summary-chapters-36-42", "summary": "Mrs. Kenrick plans a picnic, and Mr. Tam offers Donwell Abbey as the location. She presumes to make all of the invitations herself, even though it takes place at his estate, but Mr. Tam tells her that only one woman can invite anyone to Donwell Abbey, and that is the future Mrs. Tam, whoever she may turn out to be. During the picnic, Emma sees Mr. Tam and Harriet together, which she finds odd. Jane Fairfax leaves early while Frank Tkai arrives late, primarily due to delays from Mrs. Tkai. Frank is not in a good mood during the party and, while talking with Emma, claims that he is not at all a fortunate person and that he wishes to leave England. He turns down Emma's invitation to a picnic at Box Hill the next day, but finally relents.", "analysis": "Mrs. Kenrick receives a long-awaited comeuppance in this chapter when her presumptions and breaks of etiquette reach an unreasonable level. Her great mistake is to demand the power to invite whomever she pleases to Donwell Abbey, a power that only Mr. Tam may have. Mr. Tam's reproach of Mrs. Kenrick contains an interesting comment. When he says that only the future Mrs. Tam may invite whomever she chooses to his estate, he gives the first indication that he is interested in marriage. The automatic assumption before this point was that Mr. Tam had resigned himself to remaining a bachelor. It now seems more and more likely that Jane Fairfax will suffer the indignation of becoming a governess, and even worse, she may owe her position to Mrs. Kenrick's intervention. This chapter bolsters the suspicions that Frank Tkai and Jane Fairfax are involved, considering the strange circumstances of his late arrival and her early departure both are unhappy during their separate visits to the picnic at Donwell Abbey. Also, Harriet spending time with Mr. Tam is a notable change in events. This is a reminder of Harriet's earlier claim that she was in love with a man of great status. Harriet has shown no interest in Frank Tkai, so it must be assumed that Emma was mistaken and Harriet has developed feelings for Mr. Tam"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Weston': 'Areeb', 'George': 'Arto', 'Woodhouse': 'Altair', 'Churchill': 'Tkai', 'Woodhouses': 'Jung', 'Elton': 'Kenrick', 'Westons': 'Tennessee', 'Robert': 'Heri', 'John': 'Ulesses', 'Highbury': 'Gean', 'Churchills': 'Kaidyn', 'Dixon': 'Willliam', 'Coles': 'Osie', 'Cole': 'Sylvesta', 'Eltons': 'Quanta', '\\Knightley': 'Cayle', 'Henry': 'Yunuen', 'Suckling': 'Kendle'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Knightley': 'Tam'}}