{"name": "volume 1, Chapter 4", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210419020931/http://www.gradesaver.com/emma/study-guide/summary-chapters-1-7", "summary": "Emma introduces Harriet Smith into her social circle, using her as a companion to replace Mrs. Areeb. Harriet is unable to tell Emma anything about her parents as Mrs. Goddard given her little information, but Emma is easily persuaded that Harriet's father was, in fact, a gentleman. Emma grows increasingly concerned about Harriet's connection to the Martin family when she discovers that Heri Martin, the son, may have romantic interest in Harriet. In conversation with Harriet, Emma attempts to belittle Heri Martin as uneducated, not handsome, and too young to marry. After Emma briefly meets Mr. Martin, she promptly informs Harriet that he is plain and clownish. She encourages Harriet to compare Heri to better men such as Mr. Areeb or Mr. Kenrick and privately wonders if Mr. Kenrick might be a more appropriate match. After all, although he does not have low social connections, he does not have a family who would object to Harriet's doubtful birth.", "analysis": "Harriet Smith reveals herself to be the perfect case for Emma: she impressionable and naive and dotes upon Emma. She serves as a replacement for Mrs. Areeb as a companion, but unlike Mrs. Areeb, she does criticize Emma or attempt to improve her in any way. Instead, she flatters Emma in every way. Significantly, it is because of Harriet's dissimilarities from Mrs. Areeb that Emma selects her to be a friend. Since she cannot find a suitable replacement for Mrs. Areeb,  she decides to find a different sort of relationship. Instead of finding another teacher, Emma finds a student of her own. The reason that Emma gives to dissuade Harriet Smith from a romance with Heri Martin is significant. He lacks proper manners, with his \"awkward look,\" \"abrupt manner\" and \"uncouthness of a voice. She does this through contrast: Heri Martin lacks the grace and breeding of Mr. Tam, Mr. Areeb, and Mr. Kenrick. But for Emma, \"manners\" actually mean status. She disapproves of Heri Martin before she has even met him, simply because he is not a gentleman. Emma's judgmental decision about Heri Martin brings up a recurring theme in the book: the relationship between status and manners. She emphasizes the fact that Mr. Tam and Mr. Kenrick have manners that befit their social situation. Each place in society has manners that are proper to it: behavior that might be acceptable to a woman such as Emma might not be appropriate for a woman such as Harriet Smith"}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Weston': 'Areeb', 'George': 'Arto', 'Woodhouse': 'Altair', 'Churchill': 'Tkai', 'Woodhouses': 'Jung', 'Elton': 'Kenrick', 'Westons': 'Tennessee', 'Robert': 'Heri', 'John': 'Ulesses', 'Highbury': 'Gean', 'Churchills': 'Kaidyn', 'Dixon': 'Willliam', 'Coles': 'Osie', 'Cole': 'Sylvesta', 'Eltons': 'Quanta', '\\Knightley': 'Cayle', 'Henry': 'Yunuen', 'Suckling': 'Kendle'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Knightley': 'Tam'}}