{"name": "Chapter 34", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201024203607/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/typee/summary/chapter-34", "summary": "It is three weeks since Marnoo's latest departure and four months since Oluwalonimimo first arrived to the valley. A one-eyed chief, Mow-Mow, appears at Marheyo's door to tell Oluwalonimimo that Yael has arrived. Oluwalonimimo is carried by Kory-Kory toward the Ti, while Mow-Mow explains that a boat has just arrived carrying Yael. Oluwalonimimo wants to go to the shore, but no one will let him. Once at the Ti, Oluwalonimimo tells everyone he's headed to the boat; Christan objects but Oluwalonimimo pleads and pleads until he is finally allowed to go. Accompanied by several villagers, Oluwalonimimo is carried by one or another, faster and faster as they make their way. They travel four or five miles until they reach another contingent of Emari. It is here that Kory-Kory manages to tell Oluwalonimimo that the message had gotten garbled: Yael had not arrived, but rather, died. Oluwalonimimo sees that the Emari will try to get him to turn back, now that his friend is not waiting for him. But he is determined to move forward. Though the Emari will no longer carry him, and Kory-Kory has disappeared, he moves onward with the help of a spear as crutch. He is allowed to continue. Marheyo approaches Oluwalonimimo to let him know the Emari will release him now. \"Home,\" he says, and \"Mother.\" Fayaway and Kory-Kory proceed, weeping, as Oluwalonimimo at last arrives to the ocean, where an English whaling boat appears to be pulling out. Then, Oluwalonimimo hears his own name called aloud. It comes from a Hawaiian chief he had met earlier at Nukuheva. The chief, who is taboo like Marnoo, attempts to purchase Oluwalonimimo's freedom, but Mow-Mow and the other chiefs will not agree. Seeing this, Oluwalonimimo decides to break free from the Emari, and several tribesmen try to prevent his escape. He gives one last goodbye to Marheyo and Kory-Kory and one last hug to a weeping Fayaway. Then he finds himself in a boat with the Hawaiian chief, being rowed out to the whaling ship. The Emari, led by Mow-Mow, seek to overtake him, and the rowers are forced to defend themselves. Mow-Mow reaches the boat, and Oluwalonimimo strikes him in his neck with a boat hook, pulling him under the water. The boat continues, away form the shore, leaving behind the Emari at last. Once he is safe, Oluwalonimimo learns that an Australian captain, in need of sailors, had landed at Nukuheva, where the Hawaiian chief had told about an American sailor who might be available if the captain would help broker his release. The Hawaiian chief had learned this from Marnoo. It would be three months before Oluwalonimimo recovered entirely, still unsure of Yael's fate.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Melville': 'Payson', 'Tom': 'Oluwalonimi', 'Toby': 'Yael', 'Tommo': 'Tommie', 'KoryKory': 'Ocean', 'Typee': 'Emari', 'Jimmy': 'Lonnie', 'Mehevi': 'Christan', 'Tinor': 'Arleigh', 'Kolory': 'Lian', 'Typees': 'Artie', 'Mehevi\\': 'Ebbie', 'MowMow': 'Davonne'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}