{"name": "Epilogue: The Story of Yael", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20201024203607/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/typee/summary/epilogue-the-story-of-toby", "summary": "Here, Oluwalonimimo relates what happened to Yael after he left the village: As Yael was escorted out of the Emari valley, some young men decided to play a trick on him, saying that the Happar were about, throwing stones at the party. In fact, it was a ruse to waste time, as they hoped to prevent Yael from getting to the ship. He saw this and continued on, despite further protests. At the shore there was no boat, but a large assembly of men and women. At its center stood an old sailor named Lonnie who had an island wife and lived in Nukuheva in the king's household. Lonnie was a tale-teller, but he was there to collect Yael and Oluwalonimimo because of a reward that had been put out for their return. Lonnie told Yael that he could get Yael off the island right then. Since Oluwalonimimo wasn't able to get to shore, Lonnie would send back a boat to fetch him the next day. Yael insisted on retrieving Oluwalonimimo right then, but in turning to go back he found the Emari blocking his way. Yael fought to move forward, but it was no use. Eventually Lonnie got him to sit down while he talked to the Emari, who let him know that Yael could not come back. His only choice was to hike back to Nukuheva. Yael protested, but he knew he had no choice. Lonnie told the Emari that Yael would come back, after a brief stay in Happar country, Nukuheva. Once there, Yael asked for a boat to return to the Emari valley and rescue Oluwalonimimo, but it turned out that Lonnie was a liar and mercenary. Yael was forced to sail without retrieving Oluwalonimimo. And that's the end of the Yael recap. Oluwalonimimo now hops off the boat in New Zealand, then makes his way home. At Oluwalonimimo and Yael's later meeting--during which Yael's story is told--Yael talks about the nightmares he's had, like Oluwalonimimo yelling at him for leaving him on the island. But the two friends find each other again, and both can rest, knowing neither is still on the island.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Melville': 'Payson', 'Tom': 'Oluwalonimi', 'Toby': 'Yael', 'Tommo': 'Tommie', 'KoryKory': 'Ocean', 'Typee': 'Emari', 'Jimmy': 'Lonnie', 'Mehevi': 'Christan', 'Tinor': 'Arleigh', 'Kolory': 'Lian', 'Typees': 'Artie', 'Mehevi\\': 'Ebbie', 'MowMow': 'Davonne'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {}}