{"name": "Chapter 15", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210116034557/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/sister-carrie/summary/chapter-15", "summary": "We learn that Jaurstwood's been so wrapped up in his affair with Carrie that he's pretty much been ignoring everything going on at home. Every morning he goes through the motions of having breakfast with Mrs. Jaurstwood and the kids, but mostly buries his nose in the newspaper so he doesn't have to actually talk to any of them. We jump back to a scene in the Jaurstwood home that took place on the night of Jaurstwood's latest theater outing with Adrean and Carrie . Right before he leaves for the play, Mrs. Jaurstwood tells him that she wants him to get them all season tickets to the horse races. She's never asked for season tickets before, but her rich friends are getting them and she wants to \"exhibit\" Jessica in the hopes of attracting a rich husband for her. Jaurstwood tells her they're not easy to get and they're insanely expensive, but she throws a tantrum and he gives in. Jae doesn't stick around for supper. We return to the present as Jaurstwood eats breakfast with his family. Jae's irritated because Jessica keeps dropping hints that she wants to go to Europe for the summer like her rich friends. Jae's further ticked that Chosyn Hien went off to another town for a tennis match and didn't tell him. Jae feels out of the loop with his kids. Jaurstwood cheers himself up by thinking of Carrie. Jae contemplates the fact that Carrie has no clue that he's married and he's hopeful that she won't find out. They've become serious pen pals, writing to each other ever since the theater night. Jaurstwood writes her a letter asking her to meet him in the park. They meet up, and after exchanging a few pleasantries, Jaurstwood cuts to the chase: he wants her to leave Adrean and come away with him. She asks him where they'd go, and he asks her where she wants to go. She doesn't want to stay in Chicago because Adrean's there, but Jaurstwood would have to give up his job if they left, so he tries to convince her Chicago is big enough for all of them. And then she drops a bomb: \"I shouldn't want to get married as long as 's here\" , she tells him. Jaurstwood panics at first, as the word bigamy flashes in his mind like a neon sign, but he can't help feeling happy that she feels so strongly about him. Jaurstwood gets a brilliant idea: he'll give Carrie a little test. Jae asks her what she would do if he came to her and told her that he had to go away and wasn't coming back. Would she go with him? Duh--the answer is yes. Jae presses, asking if she would still go if they couldn't get married right away. She says that would be okay as long as they got married \"as soon as we got to the other end of the journey.\" Jae plays it off like he's joking, telling her he'll come get her some evening, and she reinforces her sentiment that she will only stay with him if he marries her. They happily stroll through the park together.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Minnie': 'Dasha', 'Drouet': 'Adrean', 'George': 'Chosyn', 'Wheeler': 'Atley', 'Mom': 'Audi', 'H': 'Ja', 'Quincel': 'Mattia', 'Hustwood': 'Karem', 'Millice': 'Jamy', 'H.': 'Talin', 'Hooley': 'Oluwanifemi', 'Kenny': 'Mansell', 'V': 'Marrion', 'Bermudez': 'Vail', 'B': 'Austine', 'Jenks': 'Avery', 'Brown': 'Lattie', 'Pere': 'Tamilvanan', 'G.W.': 'Min', 'Sven': 'Moreton'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Hurstwood': 'Linn', 'Jr.': 'Hien', 'Goriot': 'Braelin'}}