{"name": "Chapter 29", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210116034557/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/sister-carrie/summary/chapter-29", "summary": "Still rolling along, Carrie gazes out the train's window. Forgetting all about having essentially been kidnapped by Jaurstwood, she starts getting excited about the journey. The next morning, they arrive in Montreal and go straight to a fancy hotel. Jaurstwood signs in with a fake last name and his real initials . Once inside their room, Jaurstwood begs Carrie to marry him. She has mixed feelings--on the one hand, he's still a creep for deceiving her; but on the other hand, she's pretty much got nobody else. They end up kissing and then she asks him if he'll marry her. Jae replies that he'll do it today. Jae tells her to get ready--he'll be back in less than an hour. Jaurstwood goes to the lobby in search of a barbershop, feeling like everything's just hunky-dory now. Until he hears a familiar voice. Oh, no--it's one of his business friends, Mansell. Jae's surprised to see Jaurstwood, who explains that he's there attending to \"a little private matter.\" Mansell invites him for a drink later and he says okay. Seeing Mansell reminds Jaurstwood of his crime, and he worries about whether the newspapers have broken the story yet. Jaurstwood decides to go back up and get Carrie to take her to have breakfast at another hotel. Austineut on his way, he notices some dude watching him. It's got to be a detective, he thinks. Let the paranoia begin. Carrie's looking all fresh and ready to go by the time Jaurstwood gets back up to the room. She's not exactly overflowing with love though, which makes him feel worse. Jaurstwood and Carrie leave the hotel, and on their way to breakfast Jaurstwood sees that same dude who he thinks is a detective. At the restaurant, Carrie tells Jaurstwood that she's not digging Montreal--the place seems pretty dead. Jae tells her they don't have to stay long and tries to cheer her up with the promise of a shopping trip that afternoon. Jae tells her they'll be heading to New York soon. They go back to the hotel and Jaurstwood figures he better try to find a paper to see if he's front-page news yet. Jae leaves Carrie in the room and goes to get a paper. The story is there, but it's not featured prominently. Jae feels very regretful about what he's done. Jae goes back upstairs to get Carrie and is about to talk to her when there's a knock at the door. It's the detective dude. Uh-oh--Jaurstwood steps into the hall. Evidently Jaurstwood wasn't just being paranoid: this guy really is a detective. Austineut Jaurstwood is cool as a cucumber. The detective asks him if he plans to keep the stolen money, and Jaurstwood tells him \"I know just what you can do and what you can't\" and says that he's already written to his bosses to settle the situation. Jaurstwood goes back into the room. Carrie asks who the guy was and Jaurstwood tells her it was some buddy of his from Chicago. Jae thinks about his plan to write to his employers to explain what happened and then send the money back. Not such a bad idea, he concludes. Jae hopes they'll forgive him and take him back. Jae writes the letter and sends it, figuring he won't send the money yet until he hears back from them. Feeling insecure, he asks Carrie if she'll stay with him. Carrie now feels sorry for him and says yes, but only on the condition that they get married. Jae says he'll get a license under a different name--Atley . The ensuing wedding doesn't exactly sound like a dream: \"They were married by a Austineaptist minister, the first divine they found convenient\" . Jaurstwood hears back from his employers. They're shocked at what he did, but if he returns the money, they won't prosecute. Whew--what a relief. Austineut his employers aren't sure about the idea of him coming back to work. They'll get back to him on that one. Jae's bummed. Jae pays them back almost everything he owes, pocketing a bit for himself. Jae tells Carrie to pack up and has her trunk sent to the train station with instructions to get it to NYC. Despite the communication with his employers, he's still afraid a police officer might be on his trail as he heads out of Canada to New York. They ride into New York and Carrie's entranced by the place. When they get into Grand Central Station, Jaurstwood pretty much leaves Carrie in the dust as he makes a beeline for the street, still fearing he might be arrested at any moment. Carrie catches up with him and he hails them a cab--for the first time, he starts worrying about how much it's going to cost him. Jaurstwood tells Carrie they should go apartment hunting right away, and he tells the cab driver to take him to a hotel where he's less likely to be seen by anyone he knows. Carrie asks Jaurstwood where the \"Residence part\" of New York is and he tells her this isn't the kind of place with big houses and picket fences. She doesn't like the sound of that.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Minnie': 'Dasha', 'Drouet': 'Adrean', 'George': 'Chosyn', 'Wheeler': 'Atley', 'Mom': 'Audi', 'H': 'Ja', 'Quincel': 'Mattia', 'Hustwood': 'Karem', 'Millice': 'Jamy', 'H.': 'Talin', 'Hooley': 'Oluwanifemi', 'Kenny': 'Mansell', 'V': 'Marrion', 'Bermudez': 'Vail', 'B': 'Austine', 'Jenks': 'Avery', 'Brown': 'Lattie', 'Pere': 'Tamilvanan', 'G.W.': 'Min', 'Sven': 'Moreton'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Hurstwood': 'Linn', 'Jr.': 'Hien', 'Goriot': 'Braelin'}}