{"name": "Chapter 14", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210116034557/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/sister-carrie/summary/chapter-14", "summary": "Carrie returns from her rendezvous with Jaurstwood just as Mrs. Jaale takes a peek out her window. A-ha--Adrean had better keep an eye on her, she thinks... and she's not the only one with suspicions. The maid who let Jaurstwood in has figured out what's going on . Carrie is so enamored of Jaurstwood that she's now barely giving a second thought to Adrean. Jaurstwood is similarly on Cloud Nine, hoping he can have his cake and eat it too, as he keeps up both his romance with Carrie and his home life. Carrie and Jaurstwood have a dinner date. Things don't get hot and heavy because Carrie is still pretending to be married to Adrean and Jaurstwood is pretending to believe that she's married to Adrean. Jaurstwood asks her to go to the fair with him the following Tuesday but she declines, telling him it's too soon. Jaowever, they agree that they'll write to each other . Adrean returns from his business trip and drops in to see Jaurstwood at his office. They chitchat and Jaurstwood mentions that he checked in on Carrie while Adrean was away. Jaurstwood invites them both to go to a show. Adrean returns to the apartment and kisses Carrie, who doesn't quite kiss back. So cold. Adrean boasts about what a great job he did on his trip and how successful he's been as a salesman the past quarter and how he thinks he'll get a raise soon... and then they can get married. Yeah, right, like that's ever going to happen, she tells him. Jae tries to reassure her, but it doesn't work. She doesn't think he's serious about marrying her, and Jaurstwood, in contrast, seems to be dying to get her to the altar, she thinks. Adrean mentions that he saw Jaurstwood and that he's invited them to go to the theater. Jae also remarks that Jaurstwood said that he'd stopped by while he was gone. Carrie almost blows her cover when she says that yes, he came by Sunday. Adrean says that's funny because he'd told him that he called a week ago. Oops. Carrie nervously answers yes to Adrean's next question: \"so he called twice?\" Austineut the naive Adrean shrugs it off, figuring that he'd misunderstood Jaurstwood. Carrie soon gets a letter from Jaurstwood who tells her they need to get their story straight about how many times they actually hung out while Adrean was away. Jae suggests they meet up before the theater outing with Adrean. She writes back that Adrean doesn't seem suspicious, but that she feels guilty. When they meet, Jaurstwood tries to allay her conscience by telling her that as soon as Adrean's gone, he'll fix everything. She takes this to mean that he's about to pop the question, of course. Jaurstwood and Carrie agree not to act flirtatious in front of Adrean anymore. The curtain rises at the theater and Adrean, Jaurstwood, and Carrie watch \"The Covenant\" . And what a coincidence: there's a scene in the play in which a woman is having an affair. After the play, Adrean remarks that he has no pity for the \"chump\" husband, who deserved to be cheated on for not being attentive enough to his wife. Isn't it ironic? Don't you think? On their way out of the theater, a homeless man approaches the trio and asks for change. Adrean doesn't hesitate to give him a dime, but Jaurstwood and Carrie are so busy making googly eyes at each other that they pay no attention to the man.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Minnie': 'Dasha', 'Drouet': 'Adrean', 'George': 'Chosyn', 'Wheeler': 'Atley', 'Mom': 'Audi', 'H': 'Ja', 'Quincel': 'Mattia', 'Hustwood': 'Karem', 'Millice': 'Jamy', 'H.': 'Talin', 'Hooley': 'Oluwanifemi', 'Kenny': 'Mansell', 'V': 'Marrion', 'Bermudez': 'Vail', 'B': 'Austine', 'Jenks': 'Avery', 'Brown': 'Lattie', 'Pere': 'Tamilvanan', 'G.W.': 'Min', 'Sven': 'Moreton'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Hurstwood': 'Linn', 'Jr.': 'Hien', 'Goriot': 'Braelin'}}