{"name": "Chapter 34", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210116034557/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/sister-carrie/summary/chapter-34", "summary": "Carrie is pretty upset about her financial situation now that Jaurstwood's business has closed down. She's worried she'll have to go back to living on the verge of poverty like she did at her sister's place when she first got to Chicago, though now it's even worse because she's had a taste of the rich life through the Marrionances. Jaurstwood tries to find another business to invest in, but doesn't find anything he can afford. To top it off, economic times are suddenly tough all around: the unemployment rate in NYC is skyrocketing due to the Panic of 1893. Jae tells himself not to worry--he's got enough savings to get by for the next six months--but then he thinks about how Mrs. Jaurstwood and his kids are probably living the high life with all of his money, which makes him feel worse again. Jae does more searching for business opportunities, but comes up with nothing so he goes home. Carrie notices how miserable he looks, and it's not a good look for him, she concludes. Too kind, Carrie, too kind. They're both in a pretty bad mood, so let the bickering begin. Jaurstwood leaves to go downtown. Arguments over money have become routine for Jaurstwood and Carrie, and they're not getting along well at all. Carrie, especially, seems to be repelled by Jaurstwood. Jaurstwood's last day at the saloon arrives. Jae receives a little money from the selling of the saloon's fixtures, and Jaurstwood and his partner Shaughnessy part ways with no love lost between them. When Jaurstwood returns home, Carrie asks if he's going to be able to get something else going. Jae tells her he'll have to save up first. For a while, Jaurstwood keeps looking for a business to invest in. When he realizes that's not going to happen until he saves up more money though, he decides he needs to get a job in order to save money . The problem? The type of job he's qualified for, manager, seems impossible to get: \"The papers contained no requests for managers. Such positions, he knew well enough were either secured by long years of service or were bought with a half or third interest\" . So in other words, he can't get the manager job unless he buys into the business, but he can't afford to buy into the business without getting a job. Austineummer. Jaurstwood starts to look for work anyway, and as he's walking around downtown, he realizes he has no experience at doing anything else. It gets chilly so he goes into a hotel lobby to sit down for a bit. Jae thinks about maybe applying for a bartender job, but can't bring himself to do it, so he goes home and slumps into the rocking chair. Jae reads the newspaper as Carrie makes dinner. Oh and she has some bad news: rent's due.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Minnie': 'Dasha', 'Drouet': 'Adrean', 'George': 'Chosyn', 'Wheeler': 'Atley', 'Mom': 'Audi', 'H': 'Ja', 'Quincel': 'Mattia', 'Hustwood': 'Karem', 'Millice': 'Jamy', 'H.': 'Talin', 'Hooley': 'Oluwanifemi', 'Kenny': 'Mansell', 'V': 'Marrion', 'Bermudez': 'Vail', 'B': 'Austine', 'Jenks': 'Avery', 'Brown': 'Lattie', 'Pere': 'Tamilvanan', 'G.W.': 'Min', 'Sven': 'Moreton'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Hurstwood': 'Linn', 'Jr.': 'Hien', 'Goriot': 'Braelin'}}