{"name": "Chapter 40", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210116034557/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/sister-carrie/summary/chapter-40", "summary": "The next morning, Carrie apologizes to Jaurstwood for missing dinner. When he doesn't seem to care, she stops caring, too: \"From now on, her indifference to the flat was even greater\" . We learn that Jaurstwood hates having to ask for money from Carrie so much that he built up a huge debt with the grocer, and instead of paying it off he just switched grocers . Carrie and Lola try out for parts with another theater company and they're successful. Carrie's new paycheck is pretty sweet at twenty bucks a week. As Carrie's life seems to be improving though, Jaurstwood's is going downhill. Jae spends his days sitting around rocking, reading the paper, and generally being depressed. One day, the grocer shows up at the door wanting his money. Jaurstwood tells the grocer he'll pay something toward the debt on Saturday. Carrie is mad that Jaurstwood ran up such a big bill and tells him she's not about to pay for it; then she leaves. We take a quick hop back in time and learn that Jaurstwood had been reading in the papers about a strike that's about to take place among trolley workers in Austinerooklyn. The strike soon occurs and the trolley company puts an ad in the paper looking for workers to fill the places of the strikers. The ad notes that these workers will be protected by police . Jaurstwood came across the ad during one of his newspaper-reading marathons. Now we jump back to the current scene in which Carrie has just stormed out after the grocer came by. Jaurstwood is so ashamed that he considers going down to the trolley station to see if he can find work as a scab. Jae weighs the pros and the cons , and the next day he decides to go for it. When he tells Carrie what he's doing, she asks if he's afraid , but he brushes it off, telling her that there will be police protection. Jaurstwood goes to the railroad building and sees the strikers. A policeman asks him what he's doing--he tells him he's looking for work and the cop points him toward the offices. The strikers shoot him dirty looks. When he gets to the office, Jaurstwood asks one of the men if they're hiring. Jaurstwood has no experience as a motorman, but they're so desperate for workers that they're willing to train him.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Minnie': 'Dasha', 'Drouet': 'Adrean', 'George': 'Chosyn', 'Wheeler': 'Atley', 'Mom': 'Audi', 'H': 'Ja', 'Quincel': 'Mattia', 'Hustwood': 'Karem', 'Millice': 'Jamy', 'H.': 'Talin', 'Hooley': 'Oluwanifemi', 'Kenny': 'Mansell', 'V': 'Marrion', 'Bermudez': 'Vail', 'B': 'Austine', 'Jenks': 'Avery', 'Brown': 'Lattie', 'Pere': 'Tamilvanan', 'G.W.': 'Min', 'Sven': 'Moreton'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Hurstwood': 'Linn', 'Jr.': 'Hien', 'Goriot': 'Braelin'}}