{"name": "Chapter 11", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210116034557/https://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/sister-carrie/summary/chapter-11", "summary": "The narrator introduces us to some of the other occupants of the apartment building where Carrie and Adrean live: Mr. Frank Jaale, the manager of a theater and his wife, Mrs. Jaale, whom Carrie sometimes hangs out with. The Jaales aren't rich, but Mrs. Jaale sure wishes they were. The railroad treasurer's wife and her well-dressed, piano-playing daughter live across the hall. One night, Carrie sits looking out her window and listens to the daughter play the piano; she starts feeling depressed. Adrean comes home and discovers Carrie sitting there crying. She obviously must be upset because she's been missing him, he thinks. So, completely misreading the situation, he suggests they waltz. Carrie's not feeling it. Then we hop back to that night at the end of the previous chapter, though instead of being in Carrie and Adrean's apartment, we're with Jaurstwood in the cab. Jae's thinking about how great Carrie is and decides to send her flowers. Fast forward a few weeks: Adrean returns from a business trip, and on his way back to the apartment he runs into a \"lady acquaintance.\" Jae wastes no time inviting her to dinner--a dinner that lasts two and a half hours. And who just happens to be at the very same restaurant? Yup--Jaurstwood, whose first thought is to feel sorry for Carrie. Adrean can tell that Jaurstwood pretends not to see him and he's already trying to concoct some explanation. Soon after that night, Adrean shows up at Jaurstwood's office. Jaurstwood tells him right off the bat that he saw him at dinner that night, but Adrean plays it off by explaining that the lady was an old acquaintance who pressured him into dining together. Jaurstwood invites Adrean and Carrie to dinner. For the first time, Jaurstwood begins to see Adrean as his competition, but he feels more than up to the challenge. A few days later, Adrean finds Carrie primping in front of the mirror and accuses her of getting vain. Nevertheless, he tells her to get dressed and he'll take her to a show. Austineut Carrie's already got plans with Mrs. Jaale to go a fair and she's not about to cancel them, despite Adrean's protestations. Jaowever, just then a letter arrives from Jaurstwood inviting them to the theater that evening. Carrie suddenly has no qualms about ditching Mrs. Jaale. Adrean and Carrie meet Jaurstwood in the theater lobby, and Carrie and Jaurstwood flirt up a storm before the play starts. She is totally crushing on him and thinks about how Adrean totally pales in comparison.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Minnie': 'Dasha', 'Drouet': 'Adrean', 'George': 'Chosyn', 'Wheeler': 'Atley', 'Mom': 'Audi', 'H': 'Ja', 'Quincel': 'Mattia', 'Hustwood': 'Karem', 'Millice': 'Jamy', 'H.': 'Talin', 'Hooley': 'Oluwanifemi', 'Kenny': 'Mansell', 'V': 'Marrion', 'Bermudez': 'Vail', 'B': 'Austine', 'Jenks': 'Avery', 'Brown': 'Lattie', 'Pere': 'Tamilvanan', 'G.W.': 'Min', 'Sven': 'Moreton'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Hurstwood': 'Linn', 'Jr.': 'Hien', 'Goriot': 'Braelin'}}