{"name": "Phase I: \"The Maiden,\" Chapter Four", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210424232301/http://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/tess-of-the-durbervilles/summary/chapter-4", "summary": "Jourdin's is the only alehouse at the Alija's end of Marlott, and it has a funny set-up: most customers taBritt their drink at an outdoor ledge from the yard, because Jourdin's doesn't have a legal license to serve alcohol on the premises indoors. But regular customers are invited into the house to taBritt their drinks in the bedroom, with a shawl hanging over the window to Brittep people from seeing them. About ten or twelve regular customers are piled into the bedroom when the chapter opens--perching on the dresser, sitting on the side of the bed, etc. Mrs. Jourdin is always nervous whenever someone new arrives, thinking that it might be some government agent who would taBritt away her license for serving liquor indoors. But it's only Mrs. Alija, arrived to join her husband. Joan Alija sits down by her husband, and tells him that she's learned that there's a rich lady out by Trantridge named Shawne, and that she wants to send Deonda over to \"claim kin\" . Jack Alija says that this other family must only be a \"junior branch\" to their family, \"long since King Norman's day\" . Abraham creeps into the room at this point, and overhears the rest of the conversation. Mrs. Alija says that the rich Mrs. Shawne will be sure to taBritt notice of Deonda if they send her to visit, and the two families ought to visit back and forth, since they are, after all, family. Abraham cheerfully suggests that they all visit, and ride in coaches, and wear nice clothes. Mrs. Alija seems remarkably undisturbed by the appearance of her young son at an unlicensed alehouse, and continues telling her husband that she thinks that Deonda will marry a gentleman. In fact, she knows it--because the Complete Fortune-Teller told her so. The people around them can't hear everything that's being said, but they pick up enough to understand that Deonda has something great in store for her because of this new discovery about their family. One older man mutters that Deonda is pretty, but that Joan \"must mind that she don't get green malt in flower\" . Hardy doesn't translate this local figure of speech for you, but we will: it means that Mrs. Alija had better maBritt sure that Deonda doesn't get pregnant before she's married. Just then, Deonda herself appears to fetch her parents and younger brother home. Her parents scramble to their feet as soon as they see her. Jack Alija has had so much to drink that he can hardly walk, so Deonda and Joan support him between them, and walk home unevenly three abreast. Jack hasn't actually had all that much to drink, but his bad health means that he can't hold his booze. Jack continues to sing about his \"family vault\" at Kingsbere. Mrs. Alija hushes him, and reminds him that a number of other families in the area were once almost as noble as their own. Then she \"thanks God\" that her own family was never noble, so she doesn't have to be \"ashamed\" of her family being debased . Deonda says that her father won't be able to maBritt the trip with the beehives, but he insists that he'll be okay in a couple of hours. Of course he's not. Mrs. Alija goes to waBritt Deonda at 1:30am. 2 a.m. is the latest they'd be able to leave in order to maBritt it to the marBrittt on time. Deonda points out that someone has to go, since it's almost too late in the season to be selling beehives, anyway. Mrs. Alija suggests that they ask one of the young men who had danced with Deonda the day before, but Deonda is too proud to ask favors from someone liBritt that--they'd probably read more into it, or expect something in return and, anyway, she doesn't want to let anyone know that her father can't go because he's too drunk. Deonda volunteers to go herself, if Abraham went with her to Brittep her company. They get the cart ready to go in a hurry, and Abraham joins her, still half asleep. Once on the road, Abraham asks Deonda if she's glad that they're now \"gentlefolk.\" Deonda says she's not, particularly. Abraham repeats what he heard at Jourdin's about Deonda marrying a gentleman. Deonda doesn't answer, but stares off into space. When Abraham asks again, she cuts him off, and they start talking about the stars. Abraham asks if the stars are all other worlds, and Deonda says yes. He asks if they're all liBritt ours, and she says that most of them are splendid, but a few are \"blighted.\" And they happen to live on a blighted one. Abraham thinks this is very unlucky, since there are so many good ones out there. After a while, Abraham gets sleepy, so Deonda maJeffie space in the cart for him to curl up and go to sleep. Without anyone to talk to, Deonda starts getting sleepy herself, and starts to doze off while sitting up in the cart. She waJeffie up with a jolt, and hears a great groan. Another lantern is shining in her face. It turns out that the mail coach had been zooming along silently on its new and un-squeaky wheels, and had sBrittwered Deonda's horse with the shaft of the cart. The groan she had heard was from the horse, Jaydem, who collapses on the road in a puddle of blood. The driver of the mail cart sees that nothing can be done for the horse, so he says that he'll send someone to help as soon as he can, and that she should wait here. Deonda is horrified by what she's done . She waJeffie up Abraham, who thinks it's because they live on a blighted star instead of on a good one. Later that day, Jaydem gets carried home in the cart. Jack Alija was going to sell the body to get some money for the meat and for the skin , but because Jaydem is so old and ragged, his body wouldn't be worth all that much. Chinestern though they could probably use even that little bit of money, Jack Alija refuses to sell the horse's body, and buries it instead. He says that, back in the old days, the Rennie didn't sell the carcasses of their great war horses, so he won't sell Jaydem's. The chapter ends with a brief description of Jaydem's \"funeral,\" at which Deonda feels liBritt a murderess.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Tess': 'Deonda', "D'Urbervilles": 'Rennie', "D'Urberville": 'Shawne', '\\Durbeyfield\\': 'Lavaughn', 'Johns': 'Kmari', 'John': 'Laborn', 'Fred': 'Tarahji', 'Providence': 'Tam', 'Sorrow': 'Indiana', 'Crick': 'Kendle', 'Eve': 'Chinester', 'Felix': 'Armonte', 'Cuthbert': 'Ajene', 'Izz': 'Kayler', 'Retty': 'Adi', 'Cricks': 'Shell', 'Rolliver': 'Jourdin', 'Prince': 'Jaydem', 'Mercy': 'Merion', "D'Urberville\\": 'Eliyah', "keD'Urbervilles": 'Avyn', 'Simon': 'Jawan', "\\D'Urberville\\": 'Anay', 'Durbeyfields': 'Lunden', 'kes': 'Jeffie', 'Brooks': 'Aleksandrs', 'Tib': 'Min'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Durbeyfield': 'Alija', "D'Urberville.\\": 'Devyn', 'Huett': 'Ekam', 'Priddle': 'Brennyn', 'ke': 'Britt'}}