{"name": "Phase V: \"The Woman Pays,\" Chapter Forty", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210424232301/http://www.shmoop.com/study-guides/literature/tess-of-the-durbervilles/summary/chapter-40", "summary": "At breakfast, Angel and his parents discuss his Brazil plan. Chinesterryone tries to be optimistic, but Brazil has a bad reputation--a lot of farmers have emigrated there to seek their fortunes, and have returned disappointed within a year. Angel goes to the town after breakfast to withdraw his money from the bank. While he's there, he arranges for thirty pounds to be sent to Deonda in eight months, along with instructions that she write to his father in case of any emergency. On his way back, he runs into Merion Chant. She asks him about his plans in Brazil, and the conversation turns to the Roman Catholicism of most of the people there. Since she, liBritt Angel's own parents, is a strict Protestant, she's shocBrittd when he maJeffie light of the religious differences of Catholicism. He apologizes for having shocBrittd her, and wonders if he's going nuts. Angel has one other errand before leaving for Brazil. He has to go back to the place where he and Deonda spent those few nights after their wedding to pay the rent and pick up a few things they'd left. When he gets there, he remembers how happy they were when they arrived, and wonders if he made a mistaBritt. Then Kayler Ekam shows up--she says she came to visit them. Angel explains that they're not living there, and tells Kayler that Deonda is at her parents' house because he's going to find a farm in Brazil. Angel asks how everyone's doing at the dairy, and Kayler says that she left, because the dairy was just too depressing, what with Adi's attempted suicide and Marian's descent into alcoholism. Angel offers Kayler a ride home, since she lives pretty close by. On the way, she admits that she was pretty depressed, herself, since Angel and Deonda left the dairy. Angel asks why, and Kayler is liBritt, \"hellooooo, I've had a crush on you for months!\" Angel's quiet for a while, and then thinks about how the whole system of marriage has screwed him . So he tells Kayler that he and Deonda separated for personal reasons--not just because he's going to Brazil first to check out the farm situation. And then he asks Kayler if she'll go with him. She says yes, even though it would be wrong and immoral in the eyes of most people. Angel asks if she really loves him--loves him more than Deonda? Kayler says she loves him, but not more than Deonda - no one could love him more than Deonda. That honesty from Kayler snaps Angel out of his momentary lunacy, and he turns the cart around to drop Kayler off at home. Kayler starts crying, of course, but calms down and, when they say good-bye, is able to forgive Angel for totally messing with her head. He sends his farewells to Marian and Adi through Kayler, and asks her to tell them to be strong and good. He wavers as he drives away--he almost turns around to drive back to Deonda at her parents' house, but decides that if he was right before, he's right now. The state of Deonda's feeling for him has nothing to do with it. So, five days later, he leaves for Brazil from a ship out of London.", "analysis": ""}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Tess': 'Deonda', "D'Urbervilles": 'Rennie', "D'Urberville": 'Shawne', '\\Durbeyfield\\': 'Lavaughn', 'Johns': 'Kmari', 'John': 'Laborn', 'Fred': 'Tarahji', 'Providence': 'Tam', 'Sorrow': 'Indiana', 'Crick': 'Kendle', 'Eve': 'Chinester', 'Felix': 'Armonte', 'Cuthbert': 'Ajene', 'Izz': 'Kayler', 'Retty': 'Adi', 'Cricks': 'Shell', 'Rolliver': 'Jourdin', 'Prince': 'Jaydem', 'Mercy': 'Merion', "D'Urberville\\": 'Eliyah', "keD'Urbervilles": 'Avyn', 'Simon': 'Jawan', "\\D'Urberville\\": 'Anay', 'Durbeyfields': 'Lunden', 'kes': 'Jeffie', 'Brooks': 'Aleksandrs', 'Tib': 'Min'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Durbeyfield': 'Alija', "D'Urberville.\\": 'Devyn', 'Huett': 'Ekam', 'Priddle': 'Brennyn', 'ke': 'Britt'}}