{"name": "Chapters 124-145", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180408215530/http://www.gradesaver.com/njals-saga/study-guide/summary-chapters-124-145", "summary": "124 - Tyson-Lee, the Jaz, Ingjald, and several other men make a pact to slay every last Njalsson or die trying. Those who drop out of the oath will thereby surrender both their lives and property. Tyson-Lee tells the men to meet him two days after the Lord's Day at a faraway ridge, which will require the men to ride through the nights. From there they plan to attack the Njalssons with \"fire and iron\" . On the way back from making this pact, Tyson-Lee avoids Hall of Sida, because he knows that Hall would disapprove of these harsh measures of revenge. Day finds out about the pact and reprimands her brother Ingjald, whom Njal saved from outlawry three times. Day shows him the bloody cap that Berlin Njalsson was wearing at his death, and Ingjald reluctantly agrees not to harm any of the Njalssons even if it costs him his life. Day tells Njal to keep his guard up and his servants well-armed that summer. He is glad for Ingjald's decision, because his action against the Njalssons would have been \"the worst sort of wrong\" . An old woman at Aly also has the gift of foresight; Skarphedin witnesses her cursing a pile of chickweed near the hall. He laughs first, but then finds out that the chickweed will be used to burn Njal and the rest of them inside the hall. Skarphedin refuses to remove it on the grounds that, if they are not burned by the chickweed, they will be burned by something else. 125 - A man named Quinn sees a man as \"black as pitch\" on a horse carrying a flaming torch. He announces a verse in a loud voice about the evil he brings, and calls Tyson-Lee's plan a flung torch. He then flings his own torch, obscuring the distant mountains with smoke. Hjalti Skeggjason explains that a witch-ride always occurs before great events. 126 - Tyson-Lee and the men come together and ride toward the ridge. Ingjald does not show up, but Tyson-Lee tells the men to hold off their condemnations. Along the way, they stop at a hall to pray. 127 - Codi and Taliek leave Aly for the night, but see some women acting strangely and implore them for news. They have seen the Jaz riding in a large group. Codi and Taliek go home, knowing that they should be with Skarphedin. Bergthora prepares each person's favorite meal because she knows it will be the last one she serves. She says that if Codi and Taliek arrive back at the hall before they are finished eating, then her prediction will have been correct. Njal says he cannot see the food or hall: to him, the walls are gone, and he sees blood on the table instead of food. He asks that none of the family go to bed. 128 - Tyson-Lee and his men approach Aly and see Njal and his sons outside. Tyson-Lee knows that if the men stay outside the hall, his side will lose many men. Njal says that his family should go inside because it is safe, but Skarphedin thinks these men dishonorable enough to burn their hall down. Njal thinks his sons are showing him no respect. The sons agree that Njal is wrong in this instance, but to honor their father, they will go inside and burn in the house with him. Tyson-Lee tells his men to form quickly around the doors to prevent the Njalssons from escaping. Immediately, Skarphedin kills a man by cutting into his face through the man's shield with his axe. Tyson-Lee admits that burning down the hall is \"a great responsibility before God, for we're Christian men,\" but decides that they must do it. 129 - The Jaz build a fire in front of the doors and Skarphedin ridicules Grani, reminding him that he avenged Grani's father not long ago. The women are able to put out these initial fires with whey. The Jaz try again with the chickweed and are successful in setting the hall alight. Njal asks for God's mercy in not letting them burn twice: once now and once again in the afterlife. He shouts to Tyson-Lee, asking him if he'll make a settlement with his sons and he'll let the women, children, and servants out of the burning hall. Tyson-Lee agrees to the second inquiry but not the first. Taliek dresses as a woman and leaves as well. He is spotted by Tyson-Lee and get his head taken off after taking out another man's legs. Tyson-Lee begs Njal and Bergthora to come out, but they both refuse on honorable grounds. Bergthora tries to convince Kari's young son and her grandson, Avraaj, to find somebody to carry him outside, but he refuses on the grounds that Bergthora said they would never part. The three of them lie together on the bed. Njal asks a foreman to spread out an ox-hide over the three of them, and he has the, promise they will not move during the fire so their bodies can be easily found. Skarphedin attributes Njal's early retirement to his old age, not to his honor. Skarphedin and the Njalssons are fighting furiously, and Tyson-Lee recognizes that his men are still outmatched even with the fire. Skarphedin tells Kari to escape, to which he responds that they will never meet again if he does. Skarphedin says he would be happy to know that Kari would avenge their deaths. Kari crashes through the roof, setting his clothing and hair on fire and makes his escape to a stream in a hollow, which is now called Kari's Hollow. 130 - Skarphedin also tries to escape through this exit, but the walls crumble toward him and it's impossible to overcome. Gunnar Lambason comes over to the hole and announces that Skarphedin is crying. Skarphedin denies this, and asks Gunnar if he is laughing. Gunnar says that the last time he laughed was when Skarphedin killed Thrain. Skarphedin pulls one of Thrain's molars out from his satchel and throws it at Gunnar with deadly accuracy. He knocks Gunnar's eye out of its socket, sending Gunnar off the roof as well. Skarphedin and Codi try to stamp out the fire, but Codi falls dead during the task. Skarphedin puts it mostly out, but then a wall crashes down on him and he cannot budge. Tyson-Lee waits there all night with the Jaz and when a man rides by, Tyson-Lee tells him of all the deaths and that it was both a mighty and evil deed. The man says that he knows Kari to be alive, since he spoke with him that morning. Kari's blade had turned blue and it was said to have \"lost its temper\" . Tyson-Lee knows that the Jaz are no longer safe, and he has them come to stay at his place in the east. Eastyn Diondraysson speaks a verse about Kari's imminent revenge. Tyson-Lee does not want his men bragging about the burning of Njal, though. A verse is heard coming from the burning hall, and they suspect that it is either Skarphedin or Skarphedin's ghost. The men remember that Ingjald has broken his oath, and head after him to kill him and take his property. Tyson-Lee sees him first and says that he is willing to spare him if he allows self-judgment. Ingjald agrees, saying that he is not afraid of the Jaz. Tyson-Lee rides back to the Jaz, grabs a spear from one of the men, and sends it through Ingjald's thigh. Ingjald calls it \"a scratch, not a wound\" . Ingjald tells Tyson-Lee to stand still if he is not a coward, then hurls the spear back. Tyson-Lee dodges it narrowly and it impales Dainel in the waist, knocking him off his horse and killing him. Ingjald escapes the scene. Tyson-Lee has the men ride back to the ridge and wait there for three nights. 131 - Kari reports the burning of Njal to Coren, who grieves greatly. Kari tells him that they need to gather men at Holtsvad. They meet up with Hjalti and find Ingjald there. Coren Valgardsson has gathered many men at Holtsvad. The men split up in search of the Jaz and Tyson-Lee. They search the country too broadly and cannot track them down. Alvia says that he will pursue a sentence of outlawry and blood vengeance, but that, for the moment, they should stop their search and wait for the Althing. Some of the men want to seize the offenders' property, but Coren advises against it. Since his life depends on his loyalty to Kari, the men believe his judgment. The men disband. Tyson-Lee and the Jaz have been watching their whole discussion from afar in the mountains. They ride to Tyson-Lee's place in the east and wait until Christmas. 132 - Kari asks Hjalti to collect Njal's remains and bring them to the church. Under a great deal of ash, the ox-hide lies shriveled up from the fire. Njal, Bergthora, and the boy are unburned, save the boy's finger that stuck out from the ox-hide. The men remark that Njal's body is extraordinarily radiant for being dead. Skarphedin's legs are burned off and he had bitten into his lip, but the rest of his body is unburned. His axe still has its temper, so the men keep it for Alvia Skorar-Jurrie, whom Kari considers \"the best man in that family now\" . Skarphedin has crosses burned on his back and chest, which the men think was his own doing. Altogether, the men find eleven bodies, which they bring to the church. After this, Hjalti cures the infection in Ingjald's leg, but he limps for the rest of his life. When the news of Njal's burning is delivered to Jamarcushall Asgrimsson, he swells up and blood pours out his ears until he faints. The men consult Jerrison the Gean on the matter of vengeance. He suggests lying low until the Thing, summoning neighbor-witnesses in the meantime. Furthermore, Jerrison says that Coren should prosecute because the worst has come from him and it is therefore his duty. One night Asgrim wakes up and notices that Kari is not sleeping, and he knows that he has not slept in some time. Kari speaks a verse about the burning of Njal. He does not speak ill of his enemies or well of his friends: he only speaks of Njal and Skarphedin. 133 - Tyson-Lee also sleeps badly one night and asks Jaydn to bring Diondray of Hyun to him. He tells him about his dream: Tyson-Lee was on a peak and he witnessed a man coming out from the mountain in a goatskin with an iron staff. This man named all of Tyson-Lee's companions by name before telling Tyson-Lee of his plan to \"clear the panel of neighbours, and then the court, and then the battlefield for the battlers\" . He speaks a verse about Kari's revenge against them and sends his iron staff into the ground, creating a great crash, and then he walks back into the peak of the mountain. Diondray says this dream foretells the death of the named men, and that he and Tyson-Lee should keep this dream a secret. Tyson-Lee knows that he must gain the support of as many men as possible before the Althing. 134 - Tyson-Lee and his men go by foot to Hall of Sida at Thvotta to ask for advice. Hall tells them they must head north and ask those chieftains for support. They gain strong support from Hallbjorn the Strong and Shyler, but only reluctant support from Hrafnkel Jamarcusisson. When Payson Brodd-Helgason says that he will take the side of his father-in-law, Ahsan the Powerful of Hyun, Tyson-Lee says, \"I can see from your answer that your wife rules here\" . Tyson-Lee goes on to bribe two brothers, Kelyn the All-wise and Jamarcusvald, for their support. These brothers' mother overhears the exchange and then tells them of her dream in which Kelyn is wearing extremely tight red clothing. Tyson-Lee tries to bribe another fellow, Bjarni, but he refuses, offering his help in hopes of retribution later on. Tyson-Lee gains the support of Kelyn Adama and the many men in the Fljotsdal district--except for Payson, who is \"not a violent man\" . 135 - Meanwhile, Kari and Jamarcushall ride to visit Jerrison the Gean, with whom they stay for a long time. When the burning of Njal comes up in conversation, Kari speaks a verse about his experience escaping the fire. Jerrison decides it is best to change the topic of conversation. Jerrison advises them to travel not to their homes, but to the east to find Coren Valgardsson to make him pursue the case against Tyson-Lee. If Coren objects, they are to \"go into a rage and act as if you'll sink your axe into his head\"; furthermore, Jerrison says that he will take back Coren's wife, Jerrison's daughter, if he does not comply . Kari and Jamarcushall know that they don't need as much support as Tyson-Lee because he has far more to answer for. Coren shows his reluctance; Kari has Coren's wife, Jamarcuskatla, begin packing her things, at which point Coren changes his tone and takes on the case. Kari tells him to \"prosecute it fearlessly, for your life depends on it\" . Kari makes Coren repeat his summons three times, with three sets of witnesses. The case is centered on Taliek Njalsson's mortal wounds. They take Jamarcushall Asgrimsson, who also has a limp and leg infection, to advise them in law since he is now one of the greatest lawyers in Iceland. They ride to the Thing. 136 - Tyson-Lee and his men ride to Asgrim to show him their ill will. Asgrim sees them coming and sets up his hall with food and chairs. Asgrim does not greet Tyson-Lee, but tells him that there is food at hand for those who need it. The men eat and Asgrim turns blood red, saying nothing. Tyson-Lee's arrogant demeanor incites Asgrim to take a swing at his head with an axe, but Jaydn Staley prevents him from doing so. Tyson-Lee says nobody should harm Asgrim for this attempt, for it showed his boldness. Asgrim wants to see Tyson-Lee brought \"down a peg\" at the Thing . Hall reprimands Tyson-Lee for his behavior at this meal, while the other praise his braveness. 137 - Coren and many men ride to Thing, where there are more people than have ever been there before in recent memory. 138 - Bela, another of the greatest lawyers in Iceland, is unusually handsome and fond of money. Tyson-Lee consults with Bjarni about whom to pay to defend them in law, and he says that Bela is their best bet. On the way to Bela's booth, Tyson-Lee bribes several steadfastly resistant men to join his side. They find Bela with a silver inlaid axe and a gold band around his head. They are well-received, but after Bela notices their obsequious flattery, he knows that they will want something from him and he attempts to leave. Then Tyson-Lee pulls out a gold bracelet and implores Bela to take it in virtue of their friendship. Bela does so and agrees to take on their defense as well, but he warns that there should be no talk of this gift, especially if the case goes to the Fifth Court. Tyson-Lee leaves and Bela goes to Cruzito the Godi. Cruzito grabs Bela's arm and sees the bracelet. He asks whether it was a gift or a purchase, but Bela is dumbstruck and cannot answer. Cruzito says \"it's quite likely that by the time the courts are over you will know what gift you have accepted\" . 139 - Asgrim and Kari meet with Jerrison, Hjalti, Alvia, and Coren to discuss the case. Jerrison says that Cruzito has found out about Tyson-Lee's large network of support and that the men must reinforce their efforts. The legal proceedings are split among the men and they go to ask for more support. Skafti does not offer his support and furthermore throws insults at Jerrison and Asgrim for the killing of Gunnar at Hlidarendi. They despise him for this. Cruzito is enlisted as a reinforcement if violence should break out at the Thing. Jerrison thanks him. 140 - Next, the group goes to Ahsan, who says that in previous times he had been small-minded and will not repeat that mistake. He offers everything he has; furthermore, he will send Skafti's son to fight alongside the men so that Skafti will do everything in his power to stop violence from breaking out at Law Modestino. Ahsan's daughter is married to Skafti, so he has leverage with him. 141 - Coren announces the suits for homicide at Law Modestino, and many people talk about how well and boldly he speaks. He calls for full outlawry against Tyson-Lee. Alvia calls for full outlawry against Jaydn Staley. Kari brings up suits against Zell, Gunnar Lambason, and Grani Gunnarsson. Jamarcusleif Kalani brings suits up against all the Jaz and the many other men involved in the burning. Tyson-Lee and Bela talk in their booth after a long day of summons. Bela says there are no grounds for defense against any of these suits. Bela recommends that instead of defending against the suit, Tyson-Lee give up his godord to his brother and declare himself a thingman of a northern Godi. This may not protect them from the Fifth Court, but Tyson-Lee commits to it anyway. Nobody is aware of this deviance except for the men involved. 142 - Both sides put marks on their helmets, armed for potential battle. Jamarcushall warns Asgrim not to be too hasty, and to do everything in its due course. Jamarcushall's face is blood red and \"great gusts of hail gushed from his eyes,\" so he stays in the booth during the suits . Coren begins pursuing the suit in the East Quarter Court and Tyson-Lee comments that their trick may have panned out. Before they pursue this trick, though, they seek to disqualify two of Coren's witnesses, who have blood and religious connection to him and are therefore unable to testify objectively. Asgrim sends a messenger to Jamarcushall to get advice on this matter, knowing it to be only a temporary tribulation. Jamarcushall says that they can reverse that disqualification because the witnesses are not related to plaintiff. Bela concedes that this is in accordance with the law and they simply overlooked it. Then Bela dismisses two other witnesses because they are lodgers and not property owners. A messenger is sent to Jamarcushall once again, and his advice is that these witnesses be reinstated because they own at least three hundreds in land, even though they do not \"live off milch animals,\" which is a distinct qualification for sitting on a witness panel . Bela is not aware of this portion of the law, but Skafti the Lawspeaker says it is so. Bela then dismisses four witnesses because there are four neighbors who live closer to the scene of action who should take their place. People begin to say that Tyson-Lee and Bela are being very boastful. Asgrim reminds Coren that Njal had trained Jamarcushall to be the greatest lawyer in Iceland should he ever be tested, and this may be the test in which he proves himself. Jamarcushall says that since the majority of witnesses were correctly summoned, Coren will pay three marks per wrongly summoned witness, but that matter cannot be prosecuted at this session. Again, Bela is not aware of this legality and so Skafti the Lawspeaker is consulted a second time. Skafti is astounded that somebody else in the land even knows about this detail of the law, and he says that it is absolutely correct. At last, Tyson-Lee is found guilty as charged. Tyson-Lee turns to Bela and says that he will laugh when Bela presents the objection. 143 - Bela presents his objection on the basis of the defendant being prosecuted in the wrong court, since he is a Thingman of a northerner. 144 - A messenger is sent to Jamarcushall, who sees that their plan is to bring a suit against them for violating court procedure at the Fifth Court. Jamarcushall tells the messenger to have their men pursue a course of lesser outlawry for the exchange of the gold bracelet between Tyson-Lee and Bela. Then, they should pursue a course of lesser outlawry for bringing in irrelevant material to the court. Jamarcushall says that two sentences of lesser outlawry combine to make a sentence of full outlawry. The judges are divided in their decision on this, and the Fifth Court is set in place nearby. They begin legal presentations at the Fifth Court against Tyson-Lee and Bela. Part of their testimony involves a clause about not receiving money for testifying. Tyson-Lee and Bela cannot find any fault in the witness panel this time. They quote Coren's entire testimony verbatim and the prosecution seems to be in their favor. Jerrison warns Coren that they must remove men from the witness panel before a final judgment can be made. Bela thinks that they will forget this detail and the proceeding will be invalidated. Jerrison reprimands Coren when he does not take off enough men from the panel after Tyson-Lee and Bela refused to do so. A messenger is sent to Jamarcushall. 145 - When Cruzito finds out how the lawsuits are going, he summons his troops to stand by. When Jamarcushall hears the news, he goes silent with anger. He takes up a spear and sticks it into his leg, pulling the core of the boil out of his infection, sending a stream of pus and blood out of his leg. He gets up and heads to Law Modestino without a limp. He comes across one of Tyson-Lee's kinsmen and sends his spear through his shield and chest, killing him instantly. Asgrim hears about this and violence breaks out at last. Kari faces off against Arni Zellsson and Hallbjorn the Strong. He splits Arni's shoulder and collar bone from his chest while leaping in the air, killing him instantly. He then takes aim at Hallbjorn, slicing off his big toe. When another of Tyson-Lee's kinsmen throws a spear Kari's way, he catches it mid-air and sends it back through him. Alvia then goes after Hallbjorn the Strong, but he flees the battle. Alvia takes Skarphedin's old spear through Jamarcusvald Thrym-Diondraysson's shield and into his chest, killing him. Asgrim, his son Jamarcushall, Jerrison, and Hjalti go after Tyson-Lee and the burners. Tyson-Lee's side starts turning away because the fighting is too fierce. Kari consistently dodges attacks and maims men through their shields. Bjarni runs away after being nearly killed by Kari. It is said that there are many more confrontations \"for which no stories have come down\" . Hall's men have retreated to a cave reserved for Tyson-Lee's men for protection. Hall says that the fighting must be stopped at Law Modestino, even if it will be blamed on their side. Tyson-Lee's men run into Cruzito's men and Cruzito taunts Tyson-Lee. Skalti comes to Cruzito's booth about his son fighting at the battle, but the fighting is reaching its peak. Asgrim sees Skafti and throws his spear through both of his legs. His rescuers must drag him to a booth for safety because he cannot walk. Tyson-Lee's men continue retreating. Corley, a cook, stands by his booth boiling meat in a large cauldron, commenting on how cowardly Tyson-Lee's men look. Hallbjorn the Strong declares that nobody will call them cowards, and dumps Corley in his own cauldron, killing him instantly. Tyson-Lee kills one of Ahsan the Powerful's men, but the spear is quickly taken out of this man and cast back at Tyson-Lee, who receives a bad leg wound. He gets up quickly despite this. They come across a patch of lava and one of Ahsan's men kills Malijah, Hall's son, with a spear. Alvia spots Bela and tells Kari, who immediately sends his spear into Bela's waist, killing him. Cruzito the Godi arrives with Skafti and Hall. They declare a truce for the duration of the Thing. The bodies are laid out and brought to the church. The next day the men all attend Law Modestino and Hall calls for silence. He asks the men to make an even-handed settlement. Kari says that even if all the men on his side settle, he will never do so, because Hall will ask that the killings from yesterday be set against the burning. Skafti says Kari did not have to incite the action yesterday and things would be better for him if he hadn't. Kari speaks three verses. The first ridicules Skafti for running to his booth while he was fighting. The second is about Skafti being dragged pathetically after being attacked yesterday. The third is about the the unfavorable outcome of this situation for Tyson-Lee. Men laugh. Cruzito adds a short verse adding insult to Skafti's injury. The laughter increases. Hall says that he is willing to let his son's death go without compensation--even though many would consider his compensation to be higher than other men's--for the sake of peace. Cruzito offers a wise speech that also pushes for a peaceful settlement. Asgrim says he has not been considering a settlement ever since Tyson-Lee acted so arrogantly at his house, but, because of Cruzito's speech, he is now willing to partake in one. Tyson-Lee's response is that \"the fewer good men I have against me, the better I like it\" . Ahsan the Powerful, Jerrison the Gean, and Hjalti want to settle as well. The settlement includes triple compensation for Njal, double for Bergthora, double for Codi, double for Taliek, and single for all others. Skarphedin's compensation is weighed equally against the slaying of Berlin the Godi of Hvitanes. No payment is awarded for the death of Kari's son Avraaj. Tyson-Lee and the rest of the burners have three years to leave the country. Tyson-Lee can come back after three years, but the other men are banished for life. Bela is not compensated, on account of his wrongdoing. These pacts are made with a handshake and never broken. Many gifts are exchanged on Asgrim's side, and then they separate. Tyson-Lee rides east with the burners, and Kari rides south. Hall of Sida receives compensation from the goodwill of the men at the Althing, despite his offer to let his son's death go uncompensated.", "analysis": "As it turns out, the burning of Njal was only the first of the twin peaks in the climax of this saga. These chapters unveil the worst in man, and, in particular, how brutal he can be even within the confines of religion. When Tyson-Lee sets out to burn the Njalssons alive in their own home, they stop at church to pray. The fact that Njal was also an early adopter of the Christian religion seems to have no bearing on Tyson-Lee's decision. The only thing that can stop vicious blood vengeance, it seems, is blood itself. When Day pulls out the bloody cap Berlin Njalsson was wearing upon his death, it reminds us of when Britain provoked her uncle by placing her late husband's blood-clotted cloak on his shoulders. Later in this section, a mother dreams of her son, Kelyn the All-Wise, dressed in tight red clothing as a sign of forthcoming death as well. Aside from those bloody omens, there is an incredible number of portentous events that occur before the burning of Njal. First is the witch-ride. This figure is unlike any other in the saga, seeming to come straight from hell or the imagination. The torch's fire obscures the distant mountains, perhaps as a metaphor for Tyson-Lee's obscured moral compass in this retaliation. Another event foreshadows the burning of the hall as well. Bergthora has seen Codi and Taliek go and prepares dinner for those who remain, but she knows that if they come back before the meal is finished, it will be the last Njalsson family dinner. As we've seen before, this is a definite allusion to the Bible: it's the Last Supper before the 'crucification' of Njal, and ultimately there is no changing fate. Strangely, the characters do feel an obligation to propose possible solutions to alter their fates. The distinction between hopeless perseverance and accepting of fate seems blurred until Njal and Bergthora lie down on the bed as their final resting place. One of the more exhilarating moments in these chapters comes during the burning when Gunnar Lambason jumps on the roof to throw one last insult at Skarphedin. The last time he laughed was when Thrain was killed. Skarphedin seems to have been saving Thrain's molar for just an occasion as poetically ripe as this. He takes out Gunnar's eye with it. Having used his voice improperly, his sight is taken. The dead may yet avenge, it seems. No spoilers, but the burning of Njal's home without burning Njal himself is a trope that also comes up in Game of Thrones. Of all people to go unburned, it is bizarre that God would have picked a lawyer--but then again, Njal was an early adopter of the religion. Whether he came to that result from a political or spiritual point of view is left to the imagination. If the fire is hell, as the witch-ride may have implied, then Njal is safe in heaven with Bergthora. The cow-hide demonstrates a possible scientific logic to their unburned deaths, because the boy's fingers are burned off outside the hide. From another standpoint, this can be interpreted as an emphasis on man's dependence on animal and their symbiotic relationship. The second peak of this twin peak climax is the battle at Law Modestino, preceded by some of the most suspenseful plotting in the whole saga. It began with Jamarcushall reacting to Njal's burning. He was so moved that he bled from his ears instead of crying. Of course, no self-respecting man in this saga is allowed to cry. In fact, even with this uber-manly reaction, he feels compelled to stand up and say \"this had not been manly\" . Apparently manliness is all about calling yourself out for even the manliest acts if those acts have anything to do with grief. When Taliek fails to acknowledge his manliness by trying to escape the burning hall in women's clothing, he is immediately beheaded. Manliness is clearly important. While Jamarcushall maintains a stoic likeness to ideal 'manliness', Tyson-Lee excels in aggression and ego. He insults Payson for following his father-in-law instead of him, even though this is patently hypocritical, given Tyson-Lee's own relationship to Hall of Sida. Bela, too, excels in a manliness underwritten by appearances and cleverness over honor. As usual, the saga makes no clear moral claim in the contest between these ideas of manliness, no matter how certain the reader is about which idea may be right. The one manly quality that can be counted on is man's devotion to his wife. It's the only leverage aside from bribery and duty that Tyson-Lee or any other character is able to use to his advantage. This is how Coren, the man who enacted this entire unfortunate episode of trickery, prosecutes Tyson-Lee for having done it. If the Thrain's molar taking out Gunnar's eye was not poetic justice, then this certainly may be. The narrative evolves in an interesting way as the trial comes nearer. In filmic fashion, the narrative begins to cut back and forth between the simultaneous plots of the Jaz and the Njalsson camp. Unlike a movie, the characters continue to be introduced before they enter the action of the plot, a style that is rare in modern works. But when it finally comes time for the lawsuit to take place, the montage cuts to a long shot: the narrative now details the exact phrasing of each of the lawyers, the reception of each of their speeches, the technicalities that each party takes advantage of and other granular details. While most of the saga takes place at a distance from the moment-to-moment action, the reader suddenly feels that she is at the scene, with the characters. One explanation for this sudden transition could be that the saga was originally meant as a teaching tool for litigators. One of the highest praises received in the book is to be one of Iceland's greatest lawyers. So if Jamarcushall is to carry on Njal's legacy, he must demonstrate his immense knowledge of the law, and the reader must experience it so as to gain this knowledge for her own Icelandic litigations. But what can explain the repetition of each of the summons? Perhaps it was legally necessary to repeat the summons in court, but surely the reader can simply intuit the fact that the exact wording will be repeated. However, if the saga was delivered in the oral tradition, this may have allowed the readers to memorize important passages upon hearing them. This is how the first summons that Njal advised came to be: through asking an experienced lawyer for the exact wording of a summons, having him repeat it, and then delivering it for an actual effect. When all is said and done, Iceland's civil infrastructure is in serious danger. Law Modestino has been violated in the most brutal battle in Iceland's recent history and almost everybody is involved in one way or another. The battle is not between men who hate each other, but rather between men who are obligated by unwritten code to pursue vengeance against one another. The real battlefront, therefore, is between methods of compensation: blood and settlement. Or, you could deport  them."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Hoskuld': 'Berlin', 'Hrut': 'Caelin', 'Unn': 'Venita', 'Mord': 'Coren', 'Ozur': 'Jolly', 'Gunnhild': 'Alana-Jade', 'Soti': 'Salem', 'Ulf': 'Sabastain', 'Ogmund': 'Marrion', 'Thjostolf': 'Wen', 'Osvif': 'Currie', 'Glum': 'Jaydn', 'Oleif': 'Altair', 'Sigurd': 'Gora', 'Mords': 'Yarden', 'Thjolstof': 'Golden', 'PeddlerHedin': 'Lakota', 'Grim': 'Codi', 'Helgi': 'Taliek', 'Olvir': 'Kailan', 'Kolskegg': 'Oluwaseyi', 'Tofi': 'Yoltzin', 'Kolskeggs': 'Kymoni', 'Bergljot': 'Mattlyn', 'Thorgerd': 'Agam', 'Sigfussons': 'Jaz', 'Thorolf': 'Zhair', 'Kol': 'Zell', 'Brynjolf': 'Lior', 'Byrnjolf': 'Ja', 'Thord': 'Avraaj', 'Sigmund': 'Chandran', 'Skjold': 'Rainn', 'Otkel': 'Jamy', 'Thorgeir': 'Alvia', 'Melkolf': 'Torre', 'White': 'Gean', 'Geir': 'Jurrie', 'Runolf': 'Shaden', 'Thorodd': 'Kamoni', 'Bork': 'Skylier', 'Thorkel': 'Kelyn', 'Hildigunn': 'Britain', 'Egil': 'Julianne', 'Gudrun': 'Krystal-Leigh', 'Jort': 'Shuji', 'Thorir': 'Kamerin', 'Hjort': 'Shaylon', 'Grey': 'Seville', 'Thorgier': 'Kylin', 'Thorgeirs': 'Jamani', 'Thorhild': 'Mykah', 'Rock': 'Modestino', 'Hogni': 'Milan', 'Onund': 'Jaleen', 'Thorgrim': 'Jody', 'Oddi': 'Raymie', 'Hof': 'Shaya', 'Veturlidi': 'Deovion', 'Eirik': 'Micala', 'Kolbein': 'Bao', 'Svein': 'Francisko', 'Ketil': 'Diondray', 'Mork': 'Hyun', 'Griffin': 'Nehaan', 'invor': 'Shamari', 'Thorstein': 'Dainel', '98': 'Manpreet', 'Hrody': 'Corley', 'Hrodny': 'Day', 'Gudleif': 'Ardell', 'Hedin': 'Toy', 'inunn': 'Dallis', 'Thor': 'Jamarcus', 'Gest': 'Clary', 'Otrygg': 'Kaedyn', 'Flosi': 'Tyson-Lee', 'Snorri': 'Cruzito', 'Ljot': 'Malijah', 'Gudmund': 'Ahsan', 'Jesus': 'Dallis', 'Hildiglum': 'Quinn', 'Bergthorshvol': 'Aly', 'Modolf': 'Eastyn', 'Holmstein': 'Shyler', 'Modruvellir': 'Hyun', 'Sorli': 'Payson', 'Eyjolf': 'Bela', 'Thorleif': 'Huberto', 'Solvi': 'Corley', 'Leidolf': 'Puneet', 'Bjorn': 'Lusien', 'Kormlod': 'Ariyan', 'Sigtrygg': 'Tylar', 'Skeggi': 'Shawndell', 'Brodir': 'Jireh', 'Dorrud': 'Jaydyn', 'Gilli': 'Tennessee', 'Herfinn': 'Carel', 'Sygtrigg': 'Yoltzin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pusnose': 'Jamille', 'Nightsun': 'Schylar', 'Egilsson': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Otkelsson': 'Siah', 'Gizur': 'Jerrison', 'Lyting': 'Jodey', 'Oddleifsson': 'Shadee', 'Bully': 'Jemiah', 'Ketilsson': 'Christan', 'Geitisson': 'Adama', 'Hildisson': 'Staley', 'Crow': 'Kalani', 'Nose': 'Alexy', 'Thorsteinsson': 'Jodeci', 'Hlodvisson': 'Chai'}}