{"name": "Chapters 1-18", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20180408215530/http://www.gradesaver.com/njals-saga/study-guide/summary-chapters-1-18", "summary": "1 - Coren Gigja is a chieftan whose word is so valued by the nation that \"no verdicts were considered valid unless he had been involved\" . In Breidafjord lives a man named Berlin from a long and distinguished lineage. His brother Caelin is an even-tempered and wise warrior who lives at Caelinsstadir. When Berlin holds a feast for his friends, it is revealed that he also has a beautiful daughter named Hallgerd. When Berlin asks his brother what he thinks of her, he concedes to her beauty but calls her a thief in the same breath. They don't talk for some time afterward. 2 - On the way to the Althing, a yearly legal settlement and social gathering of all free men in Iceland, Berlin tells his brother that he ought to take a wife and that he has found just the girl for him to take: Venita, daughter of Coren. Caelin likes her well enough, but doesn't know whether they will be happy together. Berlin arranges the marriage between his brother and Hallgerd nonetheless through Coren, who doesn't take the offer right away because of his unfamiliarity with Caelin. With a large dowry set, Caelin agrees to the nuptial terms. Caelin and Berlin ride out to Caelin's ship and run into their uncle, Jolly. He tells them of their third brother's death and the insecurity of his assets at the moment. Caelin postpones his marriage to stave off enemy attacks at his dead brother's abode, with the permission of Coren. Caelin sails to Vik and Berlin keeps order at home in Iceland. 3 - Caelin and Jolly are received by Alana-Jade, the queen of Norway, and invited to stay for the winter as they inspect Caelin's claim to the land. A man named Salem has already taken the land and gold for the moment. Before being invited into her palace in the east, they were to dress in galant robes and ask the king to be taken into his service as bodyguards. The king, Alana-Jade's son, is reluctant to accept them until he sees his mother's intent to host them favorably. They must return in two weeks as per tradition. Alana-Jade then makes the most of the two weeks by seducing Caelin to stay in her bed with her, which was kept secret from the king. 4 - Salem flees to Denmark with the gold, leaving the land. Alana-Jade gives Caelin two longships and Sabastain the Unwashed, a very strong man, to go after Salem. The king offers two more ships as well. 5 - Caelin and his crew arrive in Oresund to find an outlaw from Norway named Atli. He and his men want to \"earn some booty\" by attacking Caelin's fleet. After some brief back-and-forth conversation across the sound, Atli thrusts a spear into one of Caelin's men and a fierce battle ensues. Asolf, Atli's counterpart to Sabastain, kills four of Caelin's men and nearly kills Caelin before he is fatally wounded. Atli thrusts his spear into Sabastain, but Caelin manages to slice off Atli's leg, disabling him enough to incur yet another fatal wound. This time, Caelin earns some booty. Alana-Jade's servant, Marrion, sees Salem onshore back in Norway and asks him his plan. Salem replies that he will sail away and never return. Alana-Jade's other son surprises Salem from behind and hangs him for his crimes. Caelin returns and offers some booty to the king and Alana-Jade, which they accept. 6 - Caelin spends the season at the palace, but grows homesick for Iceland. With the king's permission, he takes off and accepts a parting gift from Alana-Jade: a gold bracelet. With the gift, she also casts a spell on him to prevent him from having sexual pleasure with the woman he plans to marry in Iceland. They sail to Berlinsstadir and meet with Berlin, whom they give a season's worth of flour as a thank-you for maintaining Caelinsstadir. Caelin marries Venita as planned, but she seems sad during the wedding. Venita asks Caelin to take her to the Thing to see her father. She weeps and laments to him. Coren confronts Caelin about Venita's sadness, but he defers to Venita's opinion: \"Let her speak, if she has any charges to bring against me\" . However, she is unable to express her discontent. Their lives continue to ebb and flow between happiness and discontent whenever Caelin is away collecting payment for his wares. 7 - In secret, Venita arranges to attend the Althing again, under the condition that she has no plot to harm Caelin or the escort who will risk himself to help her. She confides in her father, Coren, that Caelin is manly in every way but cannot please her sexually, just as Alana-Jade's curse prescribed. She goes into detail on the matter: it's no portent of latent homosexuality, but rather an incompatibility of sizes. Coren lays out an elaborate plan of feigned illness and affairs so that Venita can legally divorce Caelin. She follows through and when Coren declares them divorced, \"people thought this was a big event\" . 8 - When Caelin comes home, his wife is gone. He keeps calm and leaves for the Althing, where Coren Gigja is filing a claim against him for his daughter's property. A large sum is to be paid as well. Caelin responds to Coren by calling his claim aggressive and born of greed. Furthermore, he challenges him to a duel on the holy spot of Law Modestino, an extraordinary suggestion. If Coren were to win the duel, he would get double the amount of the claim, but if not, he would lose the money and, very likely, his life. Coren declines the challenge and leaves, disgraced by all witnesses at Law Modestino. Berlin and Caelin ride to Reykjadal after the Thing and stay in Lund, where a few young boys are making fun of the recent situation between Coren and Caelin. Berlin strikes one of the boys, cutting his face. In reaction, Caelin gives the boy a gold ring and tells him never to \"give offence again\" . This chapter ends the episode of Caelin and Coren. 9 - Berlin's daughter, Hallgerd, is reintroduced as a beautiful but harsh-tempered woman with the nickname 'Long-legs'. Her foster-father, Wen, is a brutal man without honor, and people think he's a terrible influence on her. Jamarcusvald, son of Currie, tells his father that he wants to ask for Hallgerd's hand in marriage, but Currie knows that their temperaments would clash. He condones the marriage nonetheless. Berlin and Jamarcusvald arrange the marriage without consulting Hallgerd in any way. 10 - Hallgerd takes offense from her exclusion in the discussion and rejects the marriage on the premise that Berlin had promised her better. Her foster-father seems contented with the marriage because he thinks she will get married a second time. He is willing to do anything except kill Berlin or Caelin for his foster-daughter. Caelin is reluctant to attend the weddin,g but Berlin convinces him that he will gain honor if he comes. Hallgerd is cheerful at the wedding, as is Berlin. Caelin remains skeptical of this marriage and finds it an expensive waste. 11 - Jamarcusvald is pleased with Hallgerd, but both Currie and Wen know that the marriage is doomed. When Hallgerd makes a personal gibe at Jamarcusvald's upbringing, he strikes her. While he is out getting more flour and dried fish, per her request, he is met by Wen who also makes personal gibes at Jamarcusvald's incompetence as a husband. Jamarcusvald tries to strike him, but Wen anticipated this. Wen dodges the blow, breaks Jamarcusvald's arm, and crushes his skull with his axe. 12 - Wen sinks Jamarcusvald's boat and his body with it when he hears Jamarcusvald's companions coming back. They curse Wen as he sails off, but do not have the evidence of Jamarcusvald's body to condemn him. He comes back to Hallgerd and admits, bloody axe in hand, that he killed Jamarcusvald. Hallgerd sends him off to stay with Svan, a feared warrior who is also Hallgerd's mother's brother, while Hallgerd takes refuge with her father, Berlin. Currie attempts to take vengeance on Wen by taking an army up to Svan, but Svan casts a curse which conjures a black fog all around his abode. The men cannot penetrate it and turn back after several attempts. Currie goes to Berlin to rectify the situation, with Caelin acting as arbitrator. Berlin is resentful of the large sum he is made to pay because he had no part in the death. Caelin's wisdom shows Berlin that his daughter's actions are an extension of his own: \"the nose is near to the eyes, brother.\" Caelin goes a step further and gifts Currie a cloak that he purchased abroad. Not long after, Wen moves in with Berlin and Hallgerd, which incites first great tension, but then, at last, peace. 13 - Jamarcusarin, Ragi, and Jaydn, reputable sons of Altair Hjalti, enter the saga, and Currie leaves it. Jamarcusarin is a wise lawspeaker; Ragi is a great fighter; and Jaydn is a great trader, but reveals that he is quitting the business to find a wife. He confides in Jamarcusarin that it is Hallgerd whom he is after. Jamarcusarin cautions him against this, but understands that Jaydn's desire is strong. They ride off to Berlinsstadir with twenty-some men to discuss the terms of marriage with Caelin and Berlin. Caelin gives a set of secret terms, which Hallgerd must never know, about Wen: he is not to live with them and may spend no more than three days in their company before becoming an outlaw. In other words, Jaydn may invite Wen to stay as long as he wishes, but maintains the legal right to slay him after three days. 14 - Jaydn and Jamarcusarin discuss which properties they will take up after the wedding. There is some contention because Jamarcusarin wants Varmalaek, but he is stuck with Laugarnes in the south. Jaydn and Hallgerd have a daughter whom they name Gora, after Hallgerd's mother. They get along very well. News of Svan's death from a shipwreck is heard, and Hallgerd thinks this a \"big event.\" 15 - Wen is found beating one of Berlin's servants and is sent away. He takes refuge at Varmalaek per Hallgerd's request. Jamarcusarin warns Jaydn about this decision, and although Wen behaves for a time, he eventually returns to his old loutish self. Jaydn thinks it is time to do something about Wen. 16 - One day, Jaydn asks Wen for help tending the sheep, but Wen refuses outright, throwing in insults along the way. The argument results in Jaydn confronting Hallgerd about Wen. When she tries to defend him, Jaydn grows angry and strikes her. Wen sees this and although Hallgerd tells him not to interfere, he walks away grinning in silence. 17 - Another feud arises between Jaydn and Wen when they are herding sheep up a mountain and the sheep get away. After enduring many aspersions, Jaydn strikes Wen. He blocks the attack by the side of his axe, but cuts halfway through the wedge. Wen strikes back quickly and separates Jaydn's shoulder from his collar bone. Jaydn has a lethal grip on Wen with his other hand, but cannot hold on because of his own fatal wound. He buries Jaydn, takes off his gold bracelet, and brings it to Hallgerd, bloodied. She laughs when she hears his news and then sends him to Caelinsstadir for refuge. It is late at night and Caelin is in just a tunic and boots when Wen arrives. After discovering the circumstances, Wen makes the first strike, anticipating Caelin's inhospitality. Caelin dodges the strike and hacks off Wen's leg. He delivers a skull-crushing blow and has his servants take care of the body. When Jamarcusarin hears of his brother Jaydn's death, he comes to Berlin for monetary retribution. Berlin does not want to give anything since, once again, he had nothing to do with the death and did not condone it. Caelin delivers a wise settlement of gifts, since he has already taken care of Wen for Jamarcusarin. 18 - Coren Gigja dies, which is \"thought a great loss\" . Venita inherits his property and proves improvident by wasting all the wealth away.", "analysis": "This section is neatly linked to the introduction of Coren Gigja in Chapter 1 and his death in Chapter 18. At first, he is known as a man of such perfectly sound reason that no legal decision is considered settled without his word, but when his daughter Venita's missteps come into the legal realm, it leads to his moral and intellectual demise. Like many of the characters in the saga, Corens characterization is best summarized in the form of a dichotomy: familial pride v. legal justice. He asks for too much from Caelin in the divorce settlement, and is met with one of Caelin's main characterizers: instinctual justice. Although Caelin is also a wise person, his wisdom stems from a psychological basis rather than a legal one. Throughout these chapters, he gives gifts to his enemies to ease tensions and instate good will, but he also knows when physical violence is the only way to abolish tensions. His brother, Berlin, is a man who suffers much loss because of his brother's instinctual justice, but he always comes out in good graces. The first eighteen chapters of the saga introduce many other characters and plots as well, some of which are wholly an explicitly finished, e.g.: \"Currie is now out of the saga\" ; \"Three brothers are now brought into the saga\" . These literary practices are helpful to the reader, who can conclusively determine which lingering skeins and plot-lines to continue to think about, and which to ponder for the final time. But this also introduces another common communication tactic within the saga: passive voicing. With the advent of modernism and psychological interiority, readers became accustomed to accessing a form of proof surrounding statements like 'everyone thought it was a big deal'. A typical acknowledgement of the reader's distrust in this statement might be a few examples of individuals who think 'it's a big deal', or the relevant deductions and axioms involved with this being a 'big deal'. In Njal's Saga, however, the tone is generally less interested in explanations for why some people might feel strongly: the focus is rather that they do think strongly and, furthermore, that they act strongly. The saga does not shy away from the physical symptoms of emotions, such as when Berlin \"turned blood red and said nothing for a while\" . These emotional instances tend to emphasize either appropriate stoicism or inappropriate belligerence, such as when Wen \"went away grinning\" . For an ostensibly historical account of Iceland, there is a surprising amount of pure magic in these chapters. When Alana-Jade curses Caelin to be incapable of sexually pleasing his wife in Iceland, the reader does not expect it to work. When the reason for Venita's dissatisfaction with Caelin is finally revealed, the reader may be surprised and shocked at the level of detail surrounding exactly how the curse manifested in Caelin. Likewise, when Svan harnesses the natural elements with a goatskin and a poem to create a black fog to blind his enemies, this seems like wishful thinking--but Currie and his men almost die trying to pursue Svan and Golden in the fog. They turn back, dishonored. While it is unfair that a wicked man like Golden should survive, this also calls into question whether familial revenge is becoming an archaic system of justice. This is of course reversed when Caelin, a technical kinsman of the deceased, brutally dismembers Golden. Through the highs and lows of the plot, the reader can glean a good deal of insight about Icelandic warrior moral code. Almost every misfortune is accompanied by earlier foreshadowing and a warning from somebody wise, so it is not difficult to predict these violent incidents. Whereas Jamarcusvald naively trusted Hallgerd's laughter to express her true happiness, Currie knows that \"her laughter doesn't seem as good to me as it does to you... and the proof of this will come later\" . Likewise the boys who make fun of Caelin and Coren were \"very chatty, since they didn't know any better\" . Inevitably, it is the wise person who pays the price for the impulsive or unreasonable person. But the moral aspect of Njal's Saga is not limited to the plot and the dialogue: it extends to the symbols and images of the story. In both instances of conflict between Jaydn and Golden, it is sheep that incite their anger. What better symbol is there of innocence? It is only in the second confrontation, when the sheep are no longer visible, that all bets are off and Jaydn is killed. There is always an exchange of tokens after violence, which is based on a psychological principle that people are more likely to conciliate when they are gifted something . This is a moral imperative that humans feel, whether they be in 10th century Iceland or 21st century America. Perhaps the most distressing element of these introductory chapters is a conspicuous omission of the title character, Njal. The modern reader may be used to certain levels of omission such as physical absence , but for all these conclusive plots to have occurred without Njal seems almost a mistake at this point. The term 'epic' has come to be synonymous with long-form adventure films, whereas in reality, epics often include a historical and personal account of the various incidents, and are not tethered to the tenets of plot that one might see in Greek tragedies or other dramas."}

Randomized Local characters: {'Table_Type': 'Randomized Names', 'First Names': {'Hoskuld': 'Berlin', 'Hrut': 'Caelin', 'Unn': 'Venita', 'Mord': 'Coren', 'Ozur': 'Jolly', 'Gunnhild': 'Alana-Jade', 'Soti': 'Salem', 'Ulf': 'Sabastain', 'Ogmund': 'Marrion', 'Thjostolf': 'Wen', 'Osvif': 'Currie', 'Glum': 'Jaydn', 'Oleif': 'Altair', 'Sigurd': 'Gora', 'Mords': 'Yarden', 'Thjolstof': 'Golden', 'PeddlerHedin': 'Lakota', 'Grim': 'Codi', 'Helgi': 'Taliek', 'Olvir': 'Kailan', 'Kolskegg': 'Oluwaseyi', 'Tofi': 'Yoltzin', 'Kolskeggs': 'Kymoni', 'Bergljot': 'Mattlyn', 'Thorgerd': 'Agam', 'Sigfussons': 'Jaz', 'Thorolf': 'Zhair', 'Kol': 'Zell', 'Brynjolf': 'Lior', 'Byrnjolf': 'Ja', 'Thord': 'Avraaj', 'Sigmund': 'Chandran', 'Skjold': 'Rainn', 'Otkel': 'Jamy', 'Thorgeir': 'Alvia', 'Melkolf': 'Torre', 'White': 'Gean', 'Geir': 'Jurrie', 'Runolf': 'Shaden', 'Thorodd': 'Kamoni', 'Bork': 'Skylier', 'Thorkel': 'Kelyn', 'Hildigunn': 'Britain', 'Egil': 'Julianne', 'Gudrun': 'Krystal-Leigh', 'Jort': 'Shuji', 'Thorir': 'Kamerin', 'Hjort': 'Shaylon', 'Grey': 'Seville', 'Thorgier': 'Kylin', 'Thorgeirs': 'Jamani', 'Thorhild': 'Mykah', 'Rock': 'Modestino', 'Hogni': 'Milan', 'Onund': 'Jaleen', 'Thorgrim': 'Jody', 'Oddi': 'Raymie', 'Hof': 'Shaya', 'Veturlidi': 'Deovion', 'Eirik': 'Micala', 'Kolbein': 'Bao', 'Svein': 'Francisko', 'Ketil': 'Diondray', 'Mork': 'Hyun', 'Griffin': 'Nehaan', 'invor': 'Shamari', 'Thorstein': 'Dainel', '98': 'Manpreet', 'Hrody': 'Corley', 'Hrodny': 'Day', 'Gudleif': 'Ardell', 'Hedin': 'Toy', 'inunn': 'Dallis', 'Thor': 'Jamarcus', 'Gest': 'Clary', 'Otrygg': 'Kaedyn', 'Flosi': 'Tyson-Lee', 'Snorri': 'Cruzito', 'Ljot': 'Malijah', 'Gudmund': 'Ahsan', 'Jesus': 'Dallis', 'Hildiglum': 'Quinn', 'Bergthorshvol': 'Aly', 'Modolf': 'Eastyn', 'Holmstein': 'Shyler', 'Modruvellir': 'Hyun', 'Sorli': 'Payson', 'Eyjolf': 'Bela', 'Thorleif': 'Huberto', 'Solvi': 'Corley', 'Leidolf': 'Puneet', 'Bjorn': 'Lusien', 'Kormlod': 'Ariyan', 'Sigtrygg': 'Tylar', 'Skeggi': 'Shawndell', 'Brodir': 'Jireh', 'Dorrud': 'Jaydyn', 'Gilli': 'Tennessee', 'Herfinn': 'Carel', 'Sygtrigg': 'Yoltzin'}, 'Middle Names': {}, 'Last Names': {'Pusnose': 'Jamille', 'Nightsun': 'Schylar', 'Egilsson': 'Oluwadarasimi', 'Otkelsson': 'Siah', 'Gizur': 'Jerrison', 'Lyting': 'Jodey', 'Oddleifsson': 'Shadee', 'Bully': 'Jemiah', 'Ketilsson': 'Christan', 'Geitisson': 'Adama', 'Hildisson': 'Staley', 'Crow': 'Kalani', 'Nose': 'Alexy', 'Thorsteinsson': 'Jodeci', 'Hlodvisson': 'Chai'}}